K820x#14complaint
The trustees of T, a charitable trust, complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly closed their 
bank account.  They ask that HSBC  re-opens  the account and pays  compensation. The 
trustees are represented by one of the trustees, who Ill refer to as Mr C.
background
In December 2017 HSBC contacted the trustees to ask for information to help it with its 
safeguard review, which it says is intended  to protect customers  from fraud and financial 
crime. Mr C says he had a call with HSBC  and sent the requested information by email.
Mr C says he didnt receive a reply or acknowledgement  to his emails.  He received 
reminders from HSBC asking for the information. He says he re-sent emails with the 
requested information  to all of the addresses  hed been given. He also contacted  HSBC  by 
phone. Eventually, HSBC confirmed it had the information it needed and that the review  was 
complete. Mr C received  closure letters after this which  HSBC  said were  sent in error. 
Mr C was overseas for a while. When he returned  in August 2018, he found that HSBC had 
closed Ts account. HSBC  said it had tried to contact Mr C in July and August by phone 
without success.  Mr C says the trustees dont now have an account and cant  cash  the 
cheque HSBC sent to them for the closing balance. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She said HSBC had 
given Mr C misleading information in June 2018  that a letter  saying the account would be 
closed had been sent in error. The investigator said Mr C hadnt  responded to calls from 
HSBC in July 2018 because he was overseas.  HSBC could have tried to reach  him by other 
means. And its customer service  could have been  better. The investigator said HSBC  should 
allow Mr C to re-send the documents  it asked for. And it should  review the account closure.
HSBC didnt agree. It said it had to send reminder  letters until the review  was completed.  
While it had told Mr C the reminder  letters were automatically generated it hadnt said they 
were sent in error. HSBC said it told Mr C in June 2018 the review was at approval stage, 
not that it was completed. HSBC said it had told the trustees the account would be closed if 
the review wasnt completed by 30 April 2018. It said it had kept the account open for a 
further four months to allow the review to complete. 
I didnt agree with all of the investigators recommendations. So I sent a provisional  decision 
to the parties  to explain why. Neither  party responded to my provisional decision.  I havent  
seen anything to persuade me to change  my findings from those set out in my provisional  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN14915942The terms of the trustees  account say that HSBC can close  the account by giving notice. 
HSBC gave notice.  HSBC doesnt have  to give a reason to close the account. But here, it 
says it closed the account because it didnt complete its safeguard  review  by a certain date.
Mr C says it was unfair for HSBC to close the account when hed made every effort to 
provide the information it requested. 
HSBC says it received  information sporadically  and had to ask for further information on 
several occasions. The review wasnt completed  by the deadline. It says it extended the 
deadline by about four months  to allow more time to complete the review.
Ive looked at the evidence provided  by both parties  here about what  happened.
I think Mr C did send information to HSBC. And I can understand his frustration that he didnt 
know whether the information hed sent was received. HSBC did receive  information  from 
Mr C. But when it reviewed the information, it had further questions.  
I dont think HSBC misled Mr C about the review being completed. Ive listened to the call 
between HSBC and Mr C in June 2018. The call handler said the review was at approval stage. 
He said it looked  like it was taking too long and hed escalate it to get the review finished.  
HSBCs notes say it identified the need for more information in late June  2018.  Mr C was 
overseas when HSBC  tried to contact him in July and August 2018. 
Im sorry  for the circumstances  here.  Ive no doubt  that Mr C and the other trustees made 
efforts to provide the information HSBC needed. But I can also understand that HSBC  
needed to put a time limit on completing its review of the account.  It extended  this several 
times. It was unfortunate that Mr C was overseas  when HSBC  tried to contact him in July 
and August 2018. But I dont think its reasonable to say that HSBC should have kept the 
account open when it was unable  to contact Mr C. 
I cant reasonably require HSBC to re-open Ts account or open  a new account  for T. And I 
dont think, overall,  the circumstances here make it fair and reasonable to require HSBC  to 
pay compensation to T.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees of T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1491594