K820x#14complaint
Mr E complained that when he claimed  under his motor insurance policy after his car was 
damaged, esure Insurance Limited  didnt handle its repair  properly.
background
Mr Es car was stolen  but was recovered  damaged. Esure  arranged for it to be repaired by 
their approved garage. 
Mr E said that the garage didnt repair his car properly and that esure  didnt manage his 
claim well. Esure  accepted that theyd made some mistakes,  and paid him compensation. 
But Mr E remained dissatisfied  and so brought his complaint to us. He wanted his car put 
back to the way it was before it was stolen.  He also felt that esures  compensation didnt 
reflect the distress hed experienced.  
The investigator didnt  think Mr Es complaint should  be upheld. Although she agreed  that 
esure had made mistakes  she didnt think they needed to do anything further to put things 
right. 
Mr E didnt agree and so his complaint has been  passed to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr Es car was stolen in about July 2018 esure gave  him a courtesy car. They  also 
agreed to repair  his car when the police  recovered  it damaged. But Mr E said that their 
repairing garage took too long to repair his car, and when he lost confidence in their ability to 
repair his car properly esure didnt let him change to another  garage. He also said that they 
didnt keep him informed and gave  him poor service overall. 
Mr E didnt think that the garage were  repairing  his car properly. And he said that they hadnt 
returned his calls and had been rude to him. He wanted esure  to send his car elsewhere for 
repair. Esure thought  that the garage  was addressing the repair issues  but their service  
could have been better. So they offered  Mr E £100  in compensation for this. When  Mr E 
remained dissatisfied with their garages  work, esure paid for an independent  engineer to 
inspect the car to check the repair work. The engineer said that Mr Es car hadnt been fully 
repaired and identified  some problems. Esure returned his car to the same garage  for the 
further repair. They accepted that the standard of service Mr E had received had been 
disappointing. They apologised and paid him a further £150 in compensation at that stage.
After that Mr E had his car MOTd. He said that it showed three issues  that esures garage 
still hadnt resolved.  Esure accepted that the first two issues  were due to theft related 
damage, or something  which had happened  while the car was at their garage. So they said 
theyd cover those. But they thought that the third issue  was wear and tear and not caused 
by the theft damage.  Nevertheless, as a goodwill  gesture  they gave Mr E £124 so he could 
have that repaired  at a garage  of his choice.  They  also paid him another £50 in 
compensation. They felt that they were  still addressing his concerns about the claim, but 
they accepted theyd  not returned  his calls when  they should.  
Ref: DRN11589282At the time of the investigators opinion in November 2018 Mr Es car was with a different  
garage but he said that it still wasnt fully repaired. 
Esure said that theyd  tried to accommodate Mr Es wishes as best they could. They  paid for 
the inspector to check the first repairs  and for additional health checks at the manufacturer  
garage to reassure Mr E. These were things  that his policy didnt provide. When their garage 
did an oil change by mistake, and Mr E said it invalidated  his warranty,  esure paid for the 
manufacturer garage to fix that. They  say that they offered him another later independent 
engineer inspection too, but he didnt take them up on that. Esure felt that their repairers and 
engineers were being questioned and challenged  to justify their every  action,  which they felt 
was unfair.  They didnt think that it was unreasonable  to only give Mr E updates  when there 
was something to update him on. And they felt that because his cars repair work was 
extensive at about £7,000, it wasnt excessive to take four months  to repair  it. And they had 
given him a replacement car all through that period since shortly after his car was stolen. 
Mr E disagreed that his cars damage was extensive. He said that if that were so, the car 
would have been written off, rather than repaired.  But I dont agree that necessarily  follows.  
This is because an insurers decision to write off a car usually depends on it being  
uneconomical to repair  it, and thats  a commercial  judgment for them  involving other 
considerations than just the cost of repair. He also complained that hed lost out because  he 
had just filled his cars  tank with fuel before the theft,  but thats not a cost thats covered by 
his policy  and so I dont think thats  esures responsibility.
Mr E accepted that he did have a car to drive but said it was a basic  model. He wanted 
esure to pay for loss of the use of his car while it was being repaired. He said that hed not 
been able, through esures  actions,  to use and enjoy the high end car he was still paying  
insurance and road tax for during the repair period.  He didnt think esures  compensation 
reflected the magnitude of the problem theyd caused him. He felt that he had to continually 
explain and justify his views in order to get them to repair his car, and had to take time off 
work for the assessor  to inspect it. He felt that he had to manage the claim and make things 
happen, when  that was esures role, but theyd failed in that. He said that this wasnt just an 
inconvenience but a burden  for him because it happened against a background of the 
criminal investigation of the theft and the later trial.  
I can see that Mr E has experienced distress and frustration at his car being stolen and 
damaged through no fault of his own, and also at the legal process after that. But esure 
didnt cause that. And as Ive said above,  therell  always be some  inconvenience when a car 
has to be repaired.  There were problems with the repairs, which esure  admitted. I dont think 
that it was unreasonable of them not to change garage after the independent  inspection,  as 
its normally fair to allow those whove made a mistake to rectify it. But in recognition of the 
repair issues esure did compensate Mr E at each stage, to a total of £300. They  also, out of 
goodwill, paid him about £124  for work they didnt  agree had been caused by the theft 
damage. I do think that there was extensive  damage to his car, given the level of repair cost. 
So any repair  would have taken time and caused  inconvenience and loss of enjoyment of his 
own car. Although  the repairs may have taken longer than they should because  of the 
garage, I think that esures compensation of £300 does cover both the inconvenience esure 
caused him and his loss of enjoyment. So I think that esure  have done  enough  to resolve  his 
complaint and I dont  ask them to do anything else.
In making this decision Im looking at esures  actions up to the date of the investigators 
opinion. I can see that at a time after that date Mr E said he still didnt have his car back 
properly repaired and was still having  problems with esure.  
Ref: DRN11589283He also questioned esures decision to repair his car rather  than decide that it was a write  
off. However this service  is unable  to deal with those  matters here as they hadnt been put to 
esure in Mr Es original  complaint to them.  If Mr E wants this service  to investigate  them,  he 
would first need to make  a formal complaint to esure about them.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1158928