K821x#15Complaint
The representative of the Estate of Mr D complains  that Mr D was given unsuitable pension 
transfer and investment advice by Integrity  IFA Ltd, which has caused  a significant loss.
Background
In 2013 and 2014 the late Mr D received pension advice from Integrity IFA (Integrity).  A fact-
find completed in November 2013  showed  Mr D was 63, earning  £9,000  per year as a 
maintenance worker  and he intended  to retire at 65. He had three personal pension  plans 
that were invested  in with-profits funds and his attitude to risk was recorded as 
adventurous.
Integrity recommended Mr D switch the benefits  he held in the personal pension plans to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). The recommendation  letter  dated 26 February 2014 
recorded that Mr D wanted to access  his tax-free cash  in order to pay off a personal loan, 
and that he intended to retire at some point  between age 70 and 75. His personal pension 
plans had a combined transfer value of £97,213.32. It said Mr D wanted to invest  100% of 
his funds in R, a property venture. The investment in R was an unregulated investment in 
loan notes issued  by the company  in effect,  zero-coupon bonds with maturity expected to 
be in five years.
Integrity instead recommended Mr D invest £30,000  with a discretionary fund manager 
(DFM) and £34,000 in R. Mr D accepted the advice  and applied  for the SIPP. He took tax-
free cash  of £23,005.49, invested £34,000 in the R and £30,000 with the DFM.  The 
remaining sum was left in cash to cover the SIPP and DFM  fees. Integrity was paid £1,620 
for the advice.
Sadly, Mr D passed away in November 2016.  The SIPP passed to Mrs D as the nominated 
beneficiary. The portfolio  with the DFM was sold, and Mrs D received £35,000. However, 
she was informed that the investment  with R couldnt be sold as it appeared the venture had 
failed. So, a complaint was made about the suitability of this investment for Mr D.
Integrity didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr D had been insistent that he wanted to invest  
in R and would have invested  all of his funds if not for Integrity advising against it. It said 
Mr D had been told about the risks,  which he accepted.
The complaint was referred  to our service.  The late Mr Ds daughter added that Mr D had no 
investment experience and he shouldnt have been  advised to invest  such  a high proportion 
of his retirement funds  in such a high risk venture. She didnt think it likely  that Mr D had 
insisted on the investment.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He didnt think  Integrity had carried  out an adequate 
assessment of Mr Ds attitude  to risk and if it had done  so it wouldve been clear  the 
investment in R was unsuitable for him. He thought the pension switches  wouldve most 
likely gone  ahead because Mr D needed  access to the tax-free cash, but he thought he 
shouldve been  advised to invest in lower-risk funds.
The investigator thought Mrs D, as the beneficiary  of the SIPP, should be compensated by 
comparing the performance of the SIPP as a whole with the FTSE UK Private  Investors 
Income Total Return Index and paying her the difference. He said interest should be added 
at 8% simple from the date of payment of death  benefits to the date of payment of redress.  
Ref: DRN11426862The investigator also thought Integrity  should pay Mrs D a sum equivalent  to five years SIPP 
fees to take account of the fact that the SIPP would have to remain open until the investment 
with R was written off. And any fees incurred minus  any interest earned since the date death 
benefits were paid should be added  to the redress.
Integrity didnt accept the investigators findings.  It said it didnt provide Mr D with any advice 
in respect of the investment  in R, it only facilitated  the investment. It also queried whether 
the investment  in R had actually failed.
The investigator didnt  change his view. He explained that Integrity  had a responsibility to 
advise on the suitability of the investment Mr D intended to make, as per the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  (FCA) rules  and guidance. As no agreement  could be reached  the 
complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding it for largely 
the same  reasons as the investigator.
Integrity recommended Mr D take out a SIPP and invest  £30,000  with a DFM and £34,000 in 
R. The FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2.2R required Integrity to obtain 
the information necessary about  Mr D to have  a reasonable  basis for believing  its 
recommendation met his investment objectives, that he was able to bear any related 
investment risks and that he had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand 
those risks.
But Integrity says that it didnt actually provide Mr D with any advice about his investment 
with R  it says it simply facilitated  the investment. However, Im mindful  that the regulator 
(formerly the FSA, now the FCA) has issued a number  of alerts about  advising on transfers 
with a view to investing pension monies  in unregulated products through a SIPP. The alerts 
demonstrate the regulator  took the view that, in order to provide suitable  advice,  
consideration had to be given to how a consumers funds would be invested. An alert from 
2013 specifically  mentioned unregulated investments. The regulator made  its position  clear 
in the 2013 alert, where it said:
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision  of suitable advice generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating.
As per COBS  9.2.2R,  Integrity couldnt  ignore  Mr Ds intention  to invest  in R. So, if Integrity  
didnt consider this investment to be suitable  for Mr D, it shouldve  said so. But regardless of 
Ref: DRN11426863what Integrity has said about not providing  any advice to Mr D about the suitability of the 
investment in R, it seems  to me that Integrity  did in fact advise on this investment. Its 
recommendation letter clearly states  that Mr D was considering investing 100% of his funds 
in R, but Integrity  advised him to only invest £34,000. The reason given for this was to 
provide him with sufficient diversification. So, Im satisfied that Integrity  did in fact 
recommend Mr D invest funds in R, meaning  it had to be satisfied it was suitable for him.
Having considered Mr Ds circumstances and objectives, I dont think Integritys  assessment 
of Mr Ds attitude to risk of adventurous was reasonable. The fact-find included  a risk 
assessment questionnaire,  from which Integrity  surmised Mr D had an aggressive attitude 
to risk. The FCA has made numerous comments over the years,  including  in guidance 
issued in March  2011 for assessing  suitability, about  how firms shouldnt rely solely on risk 
profiling tools to establish their clients attitude to risk. The FCA said that firms should have a 
robust process for assessing the risk a customer is willing and able to take, which  includes 
assessing their capacity for loss; appropriately interpreting customer  responses to questions  
and not attributing inappropriate weight to certain answers; and ensuring that tools are fit for 
purpose with any limitations recognised and mitigated.
I dont think the questions asked were sufficient  to determine Mr Ds true risk appetite, or his 
capacity for loss. While  Mr D said in the risk profiling tool that he could tolerate large losses,  
I dont think this is at all consistent with his actual  experience and circumstances. The 
pension plan funds  to be switched to the SIPP, totalling around £92,000, represented his 
entire retirement savings.  And although he appears  to have changed his mind about  when  
he might  retire, I think it was still possible that this would be between age 65 and 70, 
meaning he had very little time to recoup  losses if he made high-risk  investments with any 
proportion of these  funds. Mr D also had no real investment  experience  he had three 
modest pension plans invested  in with-profits funds and a very small amount  of savings. So, 
it seems very unlikely to me that he suddenly became an aggressive investor so close  to 
his normal retirement age. And I dont think he wouldve truly understood the risks attached  
to such investments. Overall, I think  Mr D most likely had a medium  attitude to risk at best, 
reflecting that he was prepared to take some risk to increase his retirement funds.
If Integrity  had carried out an appropriate assessment of Mr Ds investment objectives,  
attitude to risk and capacity for loss, I dont think it wouldve recommended that he invest  in 
R because it wasnt suitable for him. I say this because unregulated investments are 
generally considered  to be speculative, high-risk and often  illiquid, so the potential  for losses  
is very real. And if Mr D invested in R, he wouldnt have access  to his funds for at least  five 
years. Given  how small Mr Rs pension pot was, and the fact one of his recorded  objectives 
was flexibility, I dont  think he shouldve  been  advised to invest  in R as it didnt provide him 
with the flexibility  he needed. I also dont think he shouldve been advised to take any 
unnecessary risk with these funds so close to his originally intended retirement age.
Integrity has suggested that Mr D wouldnt have followed the advice if it had advised him not 
to invest in R. But I dont  think thats credible. Mr D had no real investment experience, let 
alone in unregulated investments. And he followed Integritys advice to reduce his 
investment in R. So, it seems more  likely  than not that he wouldve followed Integritys 
advice if it had advised him not to invest in R at all and explained  the reasons why.
I should add that I dont  think  the recommendation for Mr D to switch  his pension funds to a 
SIPP was necessarily unsuitable. Mr D wanted  access to his tax-free  cash, which he had the 
benefit of before his passing.  So, even if Integrity  had advised  against investing in R I think 
Ref: DRN11426864its likely  the pension switch wouldve  still taken  place,  with the remaining funds being 
invested in lower-risk  funds.
Fair compensation
The complaint has been brought by Mrs D in her capacity as representative of Mr Ds estate.  
However, redress should be paid to her in her capacity as beneficiary of the SIPP  rather  
than to the estate,  on the basis that the SIPP death benefits bypassed  the estate.
My aim is that Mrs D should be put as closely  as possible into the position  she would 
probably now be in if Mr D had been  given suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mr D would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr D's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
What should Integrity do?
To compensate Mrs D fairly, Integrity  must:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Integrity  should  pay that amount direct to Mrs D. As no tax would 
have been payable on the lump  sum death  benefits, no deduction should be made 
from the redress to reflect  tax.
Integrity should add interest as set out below.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs D in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest  paid.  If Integrity deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mrs D how much has been  taken off. Integrity  should  give 
Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional interest
SIPPstill 
existsFTSE  UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of
payment of
death
benefits8% simple per year 
from the date of 
payment of death 
benefits  to the date of 
payment of redress
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Integrity should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
Ref: DRN11426865amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Integrity  is unable to purchase  the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Integrity may require that Mrs D provides an undertaking to 
pay Integrity any amount  she may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Integrity  will need  to meet  any costs in drawing this up.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Integrity totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.  SIPP provider charges and ongoing  advice fees 
should not be deducted, as we use the index  as a broad reflection of net returns.
SIPP Fees / Interest
The SIPP has remained  in place since the date death benefits  were paid because of the 
illiquid investment.  SIPP fees may have been  incurred, and interest earned, that would not 
otherwise have applied. Any fees incurred minus any interest earned since  the date death  
benefits were paid should be added  to the redress.
In addition, to take account of the fact that the SIPP will remain  in place until the illiquid
investment is written off, Integrity IFA Ltd should  pay Mrs D a sum equivalent to five years
SIPP fees at the current  tariff if SIPP fees remain payable. However, if Integrity instead 
wishes to take ownership of the illiquid investment which allows the SIPP  to be closed 
straight away, it need not pay an amount  to Mrs D to cover the fees.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income  index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr D's circumstances  and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN11426866My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Integrity  IFA Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above to Mrs D.
Integrity IFA Ltd should provide details  of its calculation to Mrs D in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D either to 
accept or reject my decision  19 November  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1142686