K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
In November 2018, Mrs Bs car was stolen but later recovered. The car was a total loss.   
Mrs B claimed on her policy with Advantage.  As Mrs B had bought the car on finance 
Advantage settled  the claim by paying her finance company.
Mrs B was unhappy with Advantages  service.  In particular, she said:
It took too long to settle her claim.
She was interviewed  which made her feel like a criminal.
Advantage paid the wrong  finance  company which meant there was a delay in 
settling the claim.
She claimed for personal belongings that were in the car at the time of the theft.  Her 
policy provided cover up to £300. But Advantage  only paid half of her claim because  
they said she couldnt provide documentary evidence.
On 27 December 2018, Mrs B asked  Advantage to amend her policy to cover  her 
replacement car. Despite saying they had done  that Advantage made a mistake that 
meant she wasnt insured. That error wasnt corrected until she called Advantage on 
14 January 2019.
Advantage incorrectly deducted  £27.51 from her account.
Advantage accepted that errors were made. They offered Mrs B £150 compensation to 
address the impact of those errors. But Mrs B didnt think  that went far enough, so she 
brought her complaint  to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. He suggested  
that Advantage should increase the compensation by £50 to a total of £200. But Advantage 
felt that was too high and Mrs B felt it was too low. As a result, the complaint  has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it. But Im 
not asking Advantage to increase their compensation above  £200 because I agree with our 
investigator that £200 is reasonable. Ill explain  why.
Ive considered all of Mrs Bs points  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key outstanding issues. 
investigation and claim settlement
I can understand why Mrs B was upset by being  interviewed and that she may have felt she 
wasnt believed when  she made her claim. Advantage  have  said its usual practice to 
investigate certain types of claims and to conduct  interviews. And I think  they are entitled to 
do that. Unfortunately, there are many  fraudulent  claims made  every  year that have a 
detrimental impact on the insurance industry and on consumers. And as insurers  can end up 
Ref: DRN18780652paying large sums of money, I think they can take reasonable steps  to investigate claims. 
But I want to make it clear that Advantage havent suggested Mrs Bs claim was anything but 
genuine, which is why they paid her claim.
Mrs Bs car was stolen  in late November 2018  and Advantage settled the claim in January 
2019. The car was stolen  but recovered.  That meant there was a police investigation over 
which Advantage had no control.  Advantage also carried out their own investigation. All that 
can take time and its not uncommon  for some claims to take over a year to conclude.  
Although each claim is different and some  may take longer than others  to resolve.  But 
looking at the circumstances of Mrs Bs claim,  I dont think there  was an unreasonable  delay.
paying the wrong finance company
When making her claim Mrs B clearly  told Advantage who her finance company was. As she 
had outstanding finance on the car, Advantage had to settle that finance  first. But they sent 
the money to the wrong finance company. They were able to correct that and they then paid 
the correct company. But that caused  Mrs B distress and inconvenience as she had to 
spend time and effort  trying to sort things out. So, I think Advantages mistake  had an impact 
on her.
personal belongings cover
Under her policy Mrs B had up to £300  personal  belongings  cover in the event she lost 
property that was in the car. The policy said Your Insurer may require documentary 
evidence to confirm  your claim Mrs Bs claim was for £320 for items including  boots, a 
coat, CDs, sunglasses  and a blanket.  Advantage asked  Mrs B for documentary  evidence but 
she said she didnt have  the receipts for those items.
While I sympathise with Mrs B as many  people dont tend to keep receipts  for everyday 
items, I cant say Advantage have done anything wrong. Mrs B agreed to the policy when 
taking it out and I think if she didnt agree with this particular term she didnt have  to go 
ahead with this policy. And while Advantage could have refused to pay any of the claim for 
her personal  belongings,  they did pay half which I think was reasonable.
driving uninsured
Mrs B bought a replacement car and on 27 December 2018 she asked Advantage to amend 
her policy to cover it. Advantage accept that they failed to do that. That meant Mrs Bs car 
was uninsured until she called Advantage on 14 January 2019 and had the mistake 
corrected. This caused Mrs B a great deal of upset. And she has correctly pointed  out that 
she or her named drivers  could have been  involved in an accident  during the period she was 
uninsured. Fortunately,  that didnt happen  and Advantage have confirmed that if there  had 
been an accident during  that period, Advantage would have covered any claim as though  
she was insured. And that is what I would have  expected. But before being told she would 
have still been  covered,  I think  when Mrs B found  out she was uninsured the thought  of what  
may have  been  would have caused  her distress.
incorrect deduction from Mrs Bs account
Advantage have  accepted that they incorrectly collected a payment of £27.51  from Mrs Bs 
card on 15 January 2019. They  said it happened as a result of a system malfunction. 
Ref: DRN18780653Advantage said they refunded the majority of that within  a couple of days  and the remaining  
£4.62 in February  2019 when they sent Mrs B their final decision letter.  
conclusion and compensation
As explained above, and as accepted by Advantage, clearly  the service provided to Mrs B 
should have been better  and there were a number of mistakes.  But I dont think Advantage 
did anything wrong  in relation to the investigation of the claim, in interviewing Mrs B and by 
asking for evidence for her personal belongings claim. 
But the errors Advantage made did cause Mrs B distress and inconvenience. It was already 
a stressful time for her and her family having  had their family home  burgled  and her car 
taken. I think Advantages mistakes  caused added distress and inconvenience. Mrs B had to 
make a number of calls and send emails  to Advantage to deal with problems arising from 
those mistakes, for example when money  was taken from her account and when she 
discovered her new car wasnt insured.
But I think £200 compensation  as suggested  by our investigator is a reasonable amount to 
address the impact of those mistakes  as its consistent with the types of awards  our service 
makes for complaints of this seriousness.  Im therefore upholding this complaint and asking 
Advantage to pay Mrs B £200 compensation in total.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Mrs B £200  compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
has experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mrs B has 
accepted my final decision. If they pay later than that they must also pay interest on that 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept
or reject my decision before 27 June 2020.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
1 If Advantage consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mrs B how much they have taken off. They  should also give her a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN1878065