K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about Calpe Insurance Company Limiteds (Calpe)  handling  of a claim on 
his motor insurance policy. 
Reference to Calpe also includes its agents  where applicable.
background
I issued my provisional decision about this complaint on 5 May 2020. 
In summary,  I said I was minded to uphold the complaint. I said Calpe hadnt  settled the 
claim for the damage to Mr Ss car fairly and in line with the terms of his policy. Thats  
because it chose to disregard  the dealerships estimate that Mr S submitted because  it 
preferred a cheaper estimate from an engineer that it instructed. I said I didnt think  it was 
fair for Calpe to deduct  what it thought it would cost Mr S to have the work done,  rather than 
what it would  actually  cost Mr S. Particularly as Calpe isnt in a position to do the work  itself. 
And I said what it will cost Mr S should be based  on what  hell have to pay at a recognised  
repairer it is reasonable for him to use. I also said I was satisfied  the dealership he wants  to 
use fits this profile. 
So, in my provisional decision I said I thought it would be fair for Calpe to use the 
dealerships estimate  as what it will cost Mr S to have the damage from the accident 
repaired. And as Mr S hasnt yet paid the remaining excess, I said Calpe should reduce  the 
amount it has asked him to pay to £516.60  to take account of the dealerships estimate.
Calpe didnt have  any comments  to make in response to my provisional decision and Mr S 
hasnt responded.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed this complaint afresh, I 
dont intend to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision,  particularly 
as neither Calpe  or Mr S had any comments  to make. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.   I direct  Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited do the following:
use the dealerships estimate as the cost to repair the damage to Mr Ss car. 
As Mr S hasnt  yet paid the remaining excess,  Calpe  should reduce the amount it has 
asked him to pay to £516.60 to take account  of the dealerships  estimate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  by 15 July 2020
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15196412provisional decision - 5 May 2020
complaint
Mr S complains about Calpe Insurance Company Limiteds (Calpe)  handling  of a claim on 
his motor insurance policy. 
Reference to Calpe also includes its agents  where applicable.
background
Mr Ss car was involved  in an accident.  He reported the accident to Calpe,  which provides 
his motor insurance policy. Mr S didnt  initially think  that the accident caused any damage to 
his car.
Calpe received a third party  claim and instructed an engineer to inspect Mr Ss car. The 
engineer confirmed that there was damage  as a result of the accident and that it would  cost 
about £1,400 to put right. 
Calpe discussed  settlement  of the claim with the third partys insurer  in the meantime. 
Mr S said that when he heard about the repairs estimate from Calpes engineer,  he got a 
separate estimate from a local dealership, although  the dealerships estimate  was dated 
over three months after the accident.  The dealership thought it would cost about  £1,000  
more to repair the damage. 
Calpe told Mr S in May that it had settled the third party claim in full on the best terms 
possible (as it found Mr S to be at fault for the accident). Calpe told Mr S that it had set 
aside about £1,400 -the estimated cost for repairs to Mr Ss car (according to the quote from 
Calpes engineer) - and he had to pay the remaining excess of about £1,600. Calpe also told 
Mr S that it would cancel  his policy if he didnt pay the outstanding amount. 
Mr S complained to Calpe about a number  of aspects of its clams handling. Calpe 
responded and acknowledged that Mr S thought  the repair costs would be much  higher, 
given the estimate  from the dealership. Calpe said it would consider the dealerships  
estimate if Mr S sent it in and told Mr S that he could complain to our service  if he wasnt  
happy with its response.
Mr S complained to us about a number  of different issues,  including  Calpes liability decision  
and its engineers estimate. Our investigator  looked into Mr Ss complaint and sent their 
assessment. Although  Mr S indicated that he accepted the assessment,  the investigator  
realised that Calpe and Mr S hadnt  agreed  whether  Calpe would accept  the dealerships 
estimate as what it would cost to repair the damage  to his car. 
So, the investigator asked Mr S to send in the estimate again  (even  though Mr S thought  
Calpe already had it) and the investigator  asked Calpe to consider it. Calpe said that it had 
asked its engineer to look at the dealerships estimate. The engineer said that hed looked at 
the images of Mr Ss car following the accident, and, in their opinion,  Calpes estimate  was 
reasonable for the work  needed. The engineer also noted that the dealerships estimate was 
dated over three months after the accident  and therefore it was possible there was 
Ref: DRN15196413additional damage included. For those reasons, Calpe said it couldnt offset further costs 
from the remaining  excess  payable.  
The investigator sent another assessment and said that, overall, Calpe had acted 
reasonably by considering the repair estimate  that Mr S provided. But Calpe was entitled not 
to deduct the higher estimate from the excess and reduce  the difference that Mr S had to 
pay. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view about  that issue  (but indicated  he was happy 
with other  points that the investigator  made  in their earlier assessment).  Mr S said he 
couldnt understand why he had to accept Calpes  estimate when the dealership had always 
serviced his car and he wanted the dealership  to complete the repairs following the accident. 
So, the matter  has been passed  to me to decide.  
my provisional findings 
Mr S doesnt  think Calpe should rely on its engineers estimate as the likely cost to repair  the 
damage to his car when the dealership said it would cost a lot more. And Mr S wants the 
dealership to complete the repairs as its always done them and Mr S wants that reflected in 
his service history. So, Mr S doesnt think its fair for Calpe  to offset the lower  of the two 
estimates - around £1,400  - and expect him to pay the remaining amount of his excess  when 
its likely  to cost him more than that to have the repairs  done.
To decide whether Calpes approach was fair, Ive first considered  the terms of Mr Ss policy. 
These say that in the event of a claim, Calpe can:
Pay to repair the damage or repair the damage themselves
Replace what is lost or damaged, if that is more cost effective, or
Settle the claim by sending a cheque or making a bank transfer.
Mr Ss policy  also says that he can arrange  for any necessary repairs to be carried out by a 
repairer of his choice  and that Calpe could ask for more repairs estimates if it thought it 
appropriate. 
So, Im satisfied that in the event of a claim,  Calpe was required to pay the cost of repairing 
any damage to Mr Ss car, whether that is doing the work itself or paying for the work to be 
done elsewhere, taking into account the excess of £3,000.  
But, Mr Ss policy is an all sections excess policy, with an excess  of £3,000. That means he 
has to pay up to £3,000 towards  any claim,  even  if hes not claiming for damage  to his own 
car. And, as the claim from the third party alone was more  than £3,000, technically speaking,  
Calpe could have  asked Mr S to pay £3,000  upfront. 
But, rather than doing that, Calpe decided  to offset  around £1,400  (what  it thought was the 
expected cost to repair  the damage to Mr Ss car) from the £3,000  excess and ask Mr S to 
pay the difference. Ive thought about whether offsetting the cost of the repairs to Mr Ss car 
is fair and reasonable. And, Im satisfied that it is. I say that because  by reducing the amount 
that Mr S had to pay, Calpe was essentially agreeing  to pay for the repairs  to Mr Ss car in 
line with the policy terms. And the approach that Calpe took meant  that Mr S had to pay less 
of the excess upfront.  So, Im satisfied that Calpe appears to have acted in an appropriate 
way.
Ref: DRN15196414But its the amount  that Calpe offset  that Mr S is particularly unhappy about. So, Ive thought 
about whether  that is appropriate and whether  allowing Calpe to only deduct this amount is 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr Ss policy  says he can get an estimate  from a repairer of his choice - and thats what he 
did. And he says he did that because hed always had his repairs done  by the dealership  
and he wanted  to have a consistent repairs and service history.  I dont think  thats 
unreasonable. But Calpe chose to disregard the dealerships estimate,  because  it preferred 
a cheaper estimate  from an engineer that it instructed. I dont think  its fair for Calpe to 
deduct what it thinks it will cost Mr S to have the work done,  rather  than what  it will actually 
cost Mr S. Particularly as Calpes not in a position to do the work itself. And I think  what it will 
cost Mr S should be based on what hell have  to pay at a recognised repairer it is reasonable 
for him to use. And Im satisfied the dealership he wants to use fits this profile. 
If Calpe was concerned  about the extent  of the repairs included  in the dealerships estimate  
and whether it included repairing other damage  not caused by the accident,  it could have 
compared the two estimates more closely. But its response that its possible  the 
dealerships estimate  included  other  work suggests that it didnt do that. And, Calpe could 
also have asked Mr S to get another estimate,  so that it could compare all three before 
deciding what was a reasonable  cost for the repairs. But it didnt do that either. And I dont  
think it would  be fair to ask Mr S to do that now.  
For all of these reasons, overall, Im not currently satisfied that Calpe has settled the claim 
for the damage  to Mr Ss car fairly and in line with the terms of his policy. 
So, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for me to require Calpe to 
use the dealerships estimate as what it will cost Mr S to have the damage  from the accident  
repaired. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision is that Im upholding this complaint.  
I intend to make Calpe  Insurance  Company Limited do the following:
use the dealerships estimate as the cost to repair the damage to Mr Ss car. 
As Mr S hasnt  yet paid the remaining excess,  Calpe  should reduce the amount it has 
asked him to pay to £516.60 to take account  of the dealerships  estimate.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1519641