K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs G bought  the policy in 1993  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs G for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £223 a month  towards Mr and 
Mrs Gs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. The benefit was split so that if 
Mr G wasnt working  he would  have  received £160  of the total monthly benefit and if Mrs G 
wasnt working she would have received £63 of the total monthly benefit. 
At the time,  Mr G was employed  as a works operator. He has told was not entitled to any 
sick pay and didnt  have  any other  means of repaying their mortgage should  he be unable to 
work. He hasnt mentioned any entitlement to redundancy pay either. Mr G has said he didnt 
have any health  problems at the time of the sale.
Mrs G was employed as a hairdresser. She has told us she was not entitled to any sick pay 
and didnt have  any other means  of repaying their mortgage should she be unable to work. 
She hasnt  mentioned any redundancy pay entitlement  either.   Mrs G has said she didnt 
have any health  problems at the time of the sale. 
Co-op has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in this case in March 2021 explaining why I didnt think this 
complaint should  be upheld.  My reasons were different to those set out by the adjudicator. I 
asked both parties to provide me with anything further they wanted  me to consider. Mr and 
Mrs Gs representatives have confirmed  they have nothing further to add. Co-op has not 
responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me with anything further to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings set out in my provisional  decision. It follows  that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs 
Gs complaint for the same reasons as those  set out in my provisional decision. The relevant 
parts of those findings are set out below in italics and form part of this final decision:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN19888512Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
The PPI policy sold to Mr and Mrs G was a condition of their mortgage.  So they would have 
had to take it out if they wanted  that particular mortgage product. Such  a condition was not 
unusual at the time Mr and Mrs G took their mortgage out and it was not wrong for Co-op  to 
have sold the policy in this manner.
However, the business selling the mortgage  would have had to make it clear to the 
consumer that the mortgage was conditional upon them taking out PPI so that they could 
then decide if they still wanted to take that particular mortgage out or to instead  take out a 
different product which didnt have this condition  or they could choose to go to another 
lender altogether. 
In this particular  case I can see that the mortgage offer clearly  set out that the mortgage  was 
conditional upon Mr and Mrs G taking out PPI and the consequences if Mr and Mrs G 
cancelled the policy. The mortgage offer set out:
This mortgage is conditional  upon  the applicants arranging Societys accident, sickness  and 
compulsory redundancy cover  Payment PlusIn the event  that the policy  is cancelled  during 
the fixed rate period, the Society  reserves the right to transfer the mortgage to the standard  
variable base rate.
So, based  on the evidence available to me, I consider it more likely than not that Co-op 
made it clear  to Mr and Mrs G that PPI was compulsory if they wanted to take out this 
particular mortgage.  Knowing this, they still went on to take out this particular mortgage 
rather than find another  product or go to another lender. It seems to me that they would not 
have been able to take advantage of the fixed rate without this condition in place  and it looks 
like taking out this particular product was of value to them even if it meant  paying  for PPI as 
they would  have been making a saving through  the fixed  rate mortgage.
It appears the PPI was sold on a non-advised basis. This means  Co-op should have 
highlighted some important aspects of the policy to Mr and Mrs G. Such as the costs, 
benefits and main exclusions and limitations. However, even if Co-op  had failed in providing 
this information  or some  of the information  to Mr and Mrs G at the time of the sale and the 
policy was not right for them,  I havent seen any evidence which  would lead me to conclude 
that better  information  about the policy itself would have put them off taking the actual 
mortgage out given that it would also have meant giving  up on the fixed rate mortgage.  
In any event, the evidence about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. Mr and Mrs G were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. Neither Mr G nor Mrs G 
had any other means of meeting  their mortgage repayments if unable  to work. I also havent 
seen any evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs G wouldve been caught by any of the significant 
exclusions  they didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions  and were in permanent  
employment. So, I think they would have found that the policy  itself could have been  of use 
to them.  And I dont think better information about the costs, benefits  or exclusions in the 
policy would have put them off taking it out.
Ref: DRN19888513In terms of commission, I note that the credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That 
means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the 
Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  
by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light 
of the Plevin judgment, arent applicable. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against The Co-operative  Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 July 2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1988851