K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  that a car she acquired with the assistance of finance from PSA Finance  
UK Limited  is not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Miss A entered in to an agreement with PSA to finance the purchase  of a used car on 30 
October 2018 for £10,358. Miss A raised  concerns with the supplying dealership that the car 
was struggling to move through the gears and juddering. Miss A took the car back  to the 
supplying dealership on 7 November 2018 and following a test drive the car was booked  in 
for a repair which  was completed on 5 December. The gearbox actuators were reset and the 
car was handed back to Miss A. The faults  persisted and on 19 December 2018  Miss A 
returned the car to the garage.  At this visit it was explained to Miss A that the issues were 
characteristic of a semi-automatic transmission. Miss A says that this was the first time she 
discovered that her car was not a fully automatic car. Miss A complained  to PSA in January  
2019.
PSA responded in early  March that there were no faults with the car and as Miss A had an 
opportunity to test drive  the car on 3 occasions  she should  have been  aware  of the driving 
characteristics. PSA said it did not agree  that the car could be rejected and Miss A should  
collect it from the dealership or the agreement  would be terminated and the car 
repossessed. 
Miss A collected the car and arranged an inspection on 4 July 2019. This inspection  report 
noted that the gears were  slow to change  and the car was juddering  and cut out when trying  
to pull away. In addition,  the report found  there  were  14 stored fault codes on the car and the 
service was recorded at 18006  miles  when the car had only travelled 17094 miles.   
PSA arranged an inspection which took place on 1 August 2019. The engineer  test drove  the 
vehicle in the presence of Miss As mother.  When Miss As mother drove the car it displayed 
a shuddering and was slow to change through the gears. The engineer concluded  that this 
was driving style and said that he explained a certain type of driving style was necessary for 
cars with this transmission to achieve  a smooth  gear change. He noted  the fault codes and 
suggested that they were investigated.  
Our investigator considered Miss As complaint and thought it should be upheld.  She thought 
that on balance  the car wasnt of satisfactory quality as the issues  appeared to go beyond 
what is characteristic for this car and she wasnt told that she would need to adapt  her 
driving style. She thought that PSA should allow Miss A to unwind the agreement and 
compensate Miss A for the time she had been  unable to use the car properly  because  of 
these issues by refunding all her monthly  repayments since  20 December 2018 and a further 
£150 for the trouble and upset caused.
PSA didnt agree with the investigators view and said that Miss A had the opportunity  to test 
drive the car on three occasions  and there  was no fault with the car that would suggest it 
was not of satisfactory quality. PSA asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman to 
decide. This is the final stage in our process.
      
Ref: DRN18688012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The finance  agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such, this 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. PSA is also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
Miss A wants to reject  the car pursuant to the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  (CRA).  PSA says 
that the car should not be rejected because there  is no fault with the car and the issues with 
car are as a result of Miss As driving  style.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) is of particular relevance  to this complaint. It says 
that under  a contract  to supply goods,  there is an implied term that the quality  of the goods 
is satisfactory. The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet  the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.  So it seems likely  that in a 
case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances  a court  would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
The CRA says the quality  of the goods includes their general  state  and condition  and other  
things like their fitness for purpose,  appearance  and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
I dont apply the law directly in the same way that a court  would approach matters but I do 
take it into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable. The CRA provides 30 days to 
reject the car if it is not of satisfactory quality. After 30 days the business is allowed an 
opportunity to repair the car.
 
My starting point is that PSA supplied Miss A with a 3 year old car that had covered around 
17,000 miles. The car cost £10,358.  With this in mind I think  that a reasonable person would 
consider that the car would have a level of performance above that of a more inexpensive or 
older model  and be relatively free from noise and vibration.
I note that the issue first presented  a short time after Miss A had owned the car. Miss A 
noticed immediately  that the car was juddering  and struggling to pull away.  When Miss A 
brought the car in to the dealership on 7 November  2018  the person who road tested  the car 
agreed that there were issues and the car was booked in for a repair.  Although  PSA doesnt 
have a record of this visit I think it is likely that the car was inspected  before a repair was 
booked. It seems to me that at this stage both Miss A and the supplying  dealership  thought 
that there  was an issue which was why a repair was attempted.
Miss A said the issue wasnt  rectified and so she returned the car to the dealership. The 
dealership did not inspect  the car again or make any repairs  as it didnt consider there was 
anything wrong  with the car. After Miss A collected the car some weeks  later,  she took it to a 
third party garage who noted the following, Road  tested vehicle found gears very slow to 
change & al juddering when pulling away. Car cut out when pulling away aswell. (sic) This 
suggests to me that the person who road tested the vehicle thought that there was an issue  
that went beyond  driving style.
At the RAC  inspection when Miss As mother was driving the car, the engineer  noted  the 
following, While the mother  was driving  the vehicle, pulling away  from a stationary position a 
Ref: DRN18688013juddering sensation was intermittently evident. The engineer was unable to replicate the 
issue when driving  the car and so concluded that the juddering  was likely to be as a result  of 
driving style. The engineer  then clarified that he gave advice about the driving style required 
for this type of transmission.
Taking all of the above into account I am persuaded that the juddering  and slow gear change 
is an issue with Miss As car that goes  beyond being a characteristic of the transmission. I 
say this because  on the basis of the evidence I have seen about the people  who have driven 
the car, only the RAC  engineer has been able to drive it without an issue.  Miss A and her 
mother aside, a mechanic  and a representative of the supplying dealership both considered 
that there  was an issue with the car that required further investigation.  In these 
circumstances I consider that it is likely  that the car has a fault and it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale. 
I dont think it is reasonable for a car of this age and cost to perform  in a way that causes 
juddering and slow gear change. Miss A has reported intermittent cutting out and this was 
also noted by the mechanic at the third party garage. Again, I am persuaded that it is likely 
that the car has a fault that was present at the point of sale.
I have taken into account that Miss A had an opportunity to test drive the car. It seems  to me 
that if this was an issue relating to driving  style it would have occurred on the test drive.  PSA 
suggest that the test drives carried out by Miss A were more  than enough  to establish that 
the car was a good fit and comfortable to drive. If this were the case  then I think Miss A 
would not have bought  the car and would not be reporting the issues  she is now.
I now need to decide what PSA needs  to do to put things  right.  I think Miss A has been
patient and has allowed  repairs on two occasions  and an inspection to be completed. I also 
dont think a further inspection/repair attempt will remedy the issue given the car has been  in 
to the garage  twice  and that PSA doesnt consider the car to actually be faulty.
Having carefully considered all of this, I think it reasonable  for Miss A to be able to reject the
car and end her agreement with PSA. When ending the agreement  and writing off anything
more that was due, PSA should also refund  the deposit Miss A paid at the outset, along with
simple interest. 
I think Miss A has been caused inconvenience by having to return to the dealership and
having to drive the car when its had problems with it. Given  the loss of and impaired use, as 
well as the inconvenience, I think PSA should pay £150 and refund Miss A all of the monthly 
instalments she has paid from 20 December 2018  to date.
Im not aware of any adverse  information  having been added to Miss As credit file. However 
if there was, PSA should  remove  it.
Ref: DRN18688014my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right PSA Finance UK Limited 
should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
Collect the car at no cost to Miss A;
Refund the deposit paid with 8% simple  interest from the date of payment until the 
date Miss A gets it back;
Refund all the monthly  payments from the 20 December 2018 when Miss A has been 
unable to have  a full use of the car until the complaint is settled;
Pay Miss A £150 for the trouble  and upset caused;
Remove any adverse  information from Miss As credit file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1868801