K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  that Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  mis-sold  a car insurance
policy to her as it didnt apply its new for old term when she made a claim.
background
In December 2018 Miss S was unfortunately involved in an accident. As a result,  it wasnt
economical to repair  her car. So her insurer. Admiral settled her claim by paying a total loss
value.
Miss Ss car was less than 12 months old and she was paying  for it under a finance
agreement. Miss S thought  Admiral would settle her claim under the new for old benefit
under her policy. But Admiral said it could  only offer this benefit with authorisation from the
finance company,  which Ill call FC. When Miss S confirmed who the FC was. Admiral told
her it was aware that this FC wouldnt provide authorisation.  And that is what  happened.
Miss S believed Admiral  had mis-sold  the policy to her. She felt it should have explained to
her before she bought the policy that the new for old benefit wouldnt apply if she was in a
finance agreement  with this particular FC.
Admiral said it wasnt  possible for it to cover every  eventuality when she bought the policy.
As its policy wording explains that the benefit  is subject to authorisation from the FC, it said it
had settled her claim correctly.
Our investigator thought the term Admiral  was relying on - in requiring authorisation from the
FC - was unusual and significant and should  therefore have been highlighted when Miss S
bought the policy. As Admiral hadnt  done this, she recommended  Admiral  pay the difference
between the total loss sum of £12,270  and the list price  of a replacement  car. She also
recommended Admiral refund the balance  of the yearly premium under the policy  and pay
Miss S £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. She recommended
Admiral pay interest at 8% a year simple interest on the difference and balance.
Admiral didnt agree. It believes  Miss Ss complaint is against  the FC as it is they who have
an unusual clause.
Miss S made a separate complaint against the FC. So this doesnt  form part of my decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 May 2020. I thought it was primarily the duty of the FC 
to notify Miss S of a change to how it deals with is finance agreements.  So I didnt intend to 
uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Neither party has replied  to my provisional decision.  So the case  has been passed back  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I havent received any comments  from 
either party, my final decision is along the same lines as my provisional decision. 
Miss Ss car was four months old when  it was written off by the incident.  New cars tend to
lose value more quickly in the first year or two of their lives than later on. 
Ref: DRN19145002Because of this, when a new car is bought  under a finance agreement, there is a risk that if it 
is stolen or written off during the early part of the agreement, the market value paid by the 
cars insurer will be significantly less than the balance still owed.
This gap in value is a well recognised risk. So consumers can buy separate  gap
insurance to cover it so they know they will have enough insurance to cover  what they
owe under  a finance agreement if the car is stolen or written off. Miss S told Admiral she
didnt buy a gap insurance policy.
Many insurers also include a provision  in their motor  insurance policies which  addresses  the
particularly steep fall in value of cars during the first 12 months. This typically  says that if a
car is stolen  or written off during the first 12 months, the insurer will provide a like for like
replacement new car rather than just paying the much lower  market value of the stolen or
written off car.
This is straightforward if the consumer owns the car outright. However  if the car is being
financed, and is still legally owned,  by a finance  company, it will have  an interest in the
process. In particular it will wish to ensure that the value of the replacement car isnt likely to
be less than the value of the original car during the remaining  life of the finance agreement.
Recognising this, the insurer will normally  provide that the consent  of any finance  company
with an interest in the car must be obtained.  This is what Admirals policy says:
New car replacement
If your car is 12 months old or less and you are the first registered keeper and the car
is:
 stolen  and unrecovered, or
 suffered damage which is covered  by the policy and the cost of repairing is more
than 59% of the current UK list price  (including VAT)
will
 Replace  your car with one of the same  make, model and specification
We must  gain authorisation from anyone else who has an interest  in your car before
we can offer this benefit. 
So I think Admiral clearly  set out the conditions under which the benefit  would  apply.
Although different motor insurance  policies  word this provision differently, the principle  is not
uncommon.
When Miss S asked for her claim to be dealt with under the new for old benefit. Admiral
discovered that the FC was one that it was aware  of as not giving their authorisation.
FC told Admiral it had made  insurers  aware  of a change  in its policy. But I think  it was
primarily the duty of FC to notify  its own finance  customers of this change in how it would
deal with its finance agreements. I dont think it was reasonable to expect Admiral to find out
which of its insurance customers might be affected  by this change  and notify  them.
This means  that I dont think Admiral mis-sold the policy to Miss S. And I think  Admirals
decision to settle  the claim by paying  the market value of the car was reasonable and in line
with the policy.
Admiral said the balance of the yearly premium was transferred to a replacement policy for a
replacement vehicle for Miss S. So if this was the case, I dont think Admiral owes Miss S a
refund.
Ref: DRN19145003I understand Miss S will be very disappointed.  But based on what  Ive seen, I dont think 
Admiral has acted unreasonably. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1914500