K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the amount  of compensation Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS)  has offered 
to settle his complaint about mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) taken out 
alongside a credit card.
background
Mr W opened his credit card account  in 1996 and at the same time took out a PPI policy.  
The premiums for the policy were  added to the account each month and so incurred some  
card rate interest.
Mr W complained  to BoS in 2015  that his PPI was mis-sold but it didnt uphold  his complaint. 
In 2018 he complained about excess commission that hed paid as part of the PPI 
premiums. BoS agreed some excess commission had been paid and offered compensation 
to settle this complaint. 
Mr W wasnt happy with the compensation hed been offered and also wanted BoS to look 
again at the mis-sale aspect but BoS refused. So he brought his complaint to this service 
about the compensation for the commission and also asked us to look at the mis-sale. He 
explained he hadnt brought his complaint to this service  in 2015 due to some  exceptional 
circumstances in his personal life. BoS agreed it was happy for us to consider the mis-sale 
aspect of the complaint and the commission compensation.
We recommended that BoS should  uphold the mis-sale complaint and pay compensation on 
the basis that the PPI was mis-sold. So it should  refund  all the costs  of the PPI, not just the 
commission part. BoS agreed to this and made  an offer of compensation to Mr W. As BoS 
had already paid the original offer for the excess commission, it deducted this from its offer 
of full redress for the mis-sold PPI.
Our adjudicator said what BoS had now offered was fair compensation. Mr W didnt agree 
and asked an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As BoS has now agreed to uphold the complaint  that the PPI was mis-sold I am not going to 
consider how the policy  came to be mis-sold. In this decision I am looking at whether BoS 
has offered fair compensation  for the mis-sold  PPI. 
When a PPI policy is mis-sold we expect  a business to put the consumer as far as possible  
back in the position he would have  been  in if he had never taken out the PPI policy.  This 
means refunding  all the PPI premiums paid, any interest and costs these may have caused 
plus paying 8% simple interest for any time a consumer is out of pocket.
In this complaint  Mr W is concerned that the compensation BoS has offered to settle his 
complaint about  the mis-sold PPI isnt correct. He is basing this on his own estimates  of what  
he thinks the compensation  should be by using the compensation he was offered to settle 
his complaint about excess commission  and multiplying  this up based  on percentages.
Ref: DRN10041762This commission compensation  was worked out on the basis  it would refund to Mr W any 
part of the PPI premium  paid for commission that was more than 50% of the premium plus 
any interest caused by this excess commission.  BoS also included in the compensation 
some 8% simple interest for any time Mr W was out of pocket for the commission part of the 
premiums. 
I would clarify that the PPI premium  in this case on the credit card, was the amount added to 
Mr Ws account each month to pay for the insurance. A proportion  of that premium was paid 
in commission. The Court has said that where  the commission is more than 50% of the cost 
of the premium then the amount over 50% must  be refunded.  
When BoS worked out the compensation for the excess commission  it paid Mr W £2,351.59  
after tax which was £2,606.96 gross. £747.47  of this amount was the proportion  of the 
premiums which was a refund of the excess commission. The excess  commission was not 
the total amount of the gross compensation as Mr W has indicated in some of his own 
calculations. 
Other factors  that also needed to be considered when  working out any compensation 
relating to the commission is that the amount  of the premium changed  each month. Also the 
commission varied in different months  during the course of the account from 79% to 82% of 
the premium. So it isnt as simple  as taking a one figure and multiplying it up as Mr W did. I 
hope this helps explain why Mr Ws figures are very different  to the actual  overall cost of the 
compensation. 
BoS has worked out the total compensation due for the mis-sale by including  all the 
premiums charged to the account between 1996  and 2006,  which  totals £1,978.50. This 
figure includes the £747.47  that BoS refunded  as being the excess  part of the premiums 
paid for commission. So this would leave around  £1,231.03 that still needed to be refunded. 
When BoS calculated  the mis-sale compensation it reconstructed the credit card account, 
removing the costs of the PPI to show what Mr W would have paid if no PPI had been 
added. This showed the extra Mr W paid was £3,309.66 and this is the amount Mr W paid 
for the PPI premiums and interest in total.  BoS has then worked out 8% simple  
compensatory interest  on this for any periods  Mr W was out of pocket and this came to 
£3,177.27. In total the compensation therefore came to £6,486.93 before tax. 
BoS has then deducted the amount Mr W had already been paid for the compensation on 
the commission complaint. And this left a total of £3,879.97 before tax, still to be paid to 
Mr W.
Having looked  at all the figures and calculations I think what  BoS has worked  out as 
compensation due to Mr W is fair. In total it is paying back £6,486.93 for the mis-sale but 
deducting from this the amount of £2,606.96 that has already been paid for the commission 
excess.
I have also noted  Mr Ws issues relating to raising  his complaint about the mis-sale originally 
in 2015 and this not being upheld. Then BoS again not upholding his complaint in full when 
he complained  in 2018 about the excess commission. 
BoS has consistently applied its approach to the mis-sale complaint and did not uphold it. 
We recommended upholding the complaint in the particular circumstances and BoS agreed 
to accept our recommendation. Because a business  does not always agree to uphold  a 
Ref: DRN10041763consumers complaint does not mean  it has done anything  wrong. It has interpreted things 
differently to this service  and it is entitled  to do that. 
When Mr Ws complaint  was not upheld in 2015, he did have the option to bring his 
complaint to this service  at that time.  But for personal reasons he didnt do so. BoS agreed  
that we could consider the mis-sale despite  this not being brought within normal  timescales 
due to the circumstances. Mr Ws complaint has now been  reconsidered  and as it was 
upheld he is getting  more compensatory interest  than he would have done in 2015  to 
compensate him for being out of pocket  for longer. 
So having  considered all the facts  I can see no reason to make any further award against 
BoS in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I think what Bank of Scotland  plc has offered in 
compensation to settle Mr Ws complaint that the PPI with his credit card was mis-sold is fair. 
And Im not telling it to do anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1004176