K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about how Pepper (UK) Limited dealt with their application for an 
extension to their interest only mortgage  to allow them to implement plans to develop a site 
within the boundary  of their property.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out an interest only mortgage with a lender in 2005 and a further  loan in 
2007. The outstanding balance in October  2018  was £318,435.43. The mortgage is now 
administered by Pepper. The term was 13 years and it matured in September  2018  and the 
balance remains outstanding. Mr and Mrs B originally intended to repay the balance from the 
sale of their construction and development company or the sale of the property itself. But 
because of a change in the prospects for the business in 2015,  they thought about 
renovating and selling the house  
In 2016 Mr B had a heart attack and their priorities changed to how to maximise their assets 
to fund their care in later life. Mr and Mrs B are in their mid-seventies.  In 2017 Mr and Mrs B 
applied and got planning permission  for an additional property within the title. The plan 
involved demolishing  part of the existing  property and building another  one in the garden in 
order to sell it and pay off the mortgage.  Mr and Mrs B applied  to Pepper for a term 
extension to do this but Pepper  eventually refused the application.
Mr and Mrs B then proposed to sell the plot of land with the planning permission which  would 
raise part of the money and get equity  release  funding or a bridging loan for the rest. Pepper  
rejected this because  of concerns it had with the value of its security if the sale of part 
preceded the bridging loan or equity release. Pepper also took legal action as the balance 
on the account had matured but this has been adjourned generally pending the outcome of 
this complaint.
Pepper accepted that its communications with Mr and Mrs B were unsatisfactory and 
offered compensation of £500.  Our investigator believed that this offer was appropriate, but 
he thought that Peppers  actions werent  unfair  otherwise and didnt recommend that the 
main part of the complaint should  be upheld. But he felt that Pepper  didnt give full 
consideration as to whether, in respect of the second proposal, the sale and fund payments  
could be done  simultaneously.  He suggested  that if Mr and Mrs B could produce  evidence 
that this could be done that Pepper should consider this and, if it rejected such a proposal  to 
set the reasons in writing. Our investigator  also felt that if Mr and Mrs B then decided  to sell 
the property that they be allowed a reasonable amount of time to do so. Mr and Mrs B 
disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular Ive considered the further 
submissions that Mr and Mrs B made following our investigators review.
There are two parts of this complaint. Firstly, whether it was reasonable for Pepper to reject  
Mr and Mrs Bs proposals and secondly  whether  Pepper satisfactorily communicated  its 
decision to Mr and Mrs B.
Ref: DRN13409272This is an interest only mortgage which matured in September  2018  and the lender would 
expect to be paid at that time. But its recognised that not everyone is able to pay their 
mortgages off at the end of the term and a lender should give reasonable consideration to a 
borrowers proposals for an extension of time to pay off the mortgage.
Pepper indicated  that an extension of time could be looked at for the first proposal but then 
after it was considered by a specialist  team it was rejected. The notes state  that our security  
would be negatively impacted.  There appears  to have been a concern that with such a 
project involving  the process of demolition and construction of an adjoining house wouldnt 
enhance the property whilst ongoing.  Furthermore, there was a danger  that the project may 
be unfinished so reducing Peppers security. Mr and Mrs B say that the additional planning  
permission increased  the value of the property to £750,000 and if the new house  was built 
the properties would be worth over £1m so Peppers security would be enhanced.  
The second  proposal was to sell off the plot separately with that money going to Pepper 
which would leave a balance of £100,000. Mr and Mrs B intended to pay this off from either 
a lifetime mortgage or bridging finance.  Pepper had a concern that in splitting the title the 
value of their security would be diminished  if the title was split and part of their security sold 
off before the equity release mortgage  or bridging loan were in place.
The difficulty  with Mr and Mrs Bs first proposal is that Pepper felt that the property 
development that Mr and Mrs B were considering might compromise their security. Thats  a 
reasonable concern given that part of the property  was to be demolished and Mr and Mrs B 
didnt have the money to build the new property but were relying  on money from a family 
member, Mrs Bs father,  whom I understand they no longer want to rely on for that money. 
Pepper wasnt happy that its security  was protected and wasnt  prepared  to take any risk 
with it.
Mr and Mrs Bs second proposal as presented  in Mr Bs letter of 17 April 2018 was to sell off 
a part of the property and pay off £220,000  to Pepper which he says,  would leave  us with 
£100,000 to find to pay off the balance.  Pepper  rejected this as if the property was sold off 
and the equity release not yet in place, it could be left with a building site adjoining the 
property which may well reduce the value of their security.  
I understand Peppers difficulty  with both proposals. Pepper presently  has adequate security  
on Mr and Mrs Bs property. Both these proposals  involve asking Pepper  to take a risk with a 
property development  that Pepper has reasonable concerns  about.  In both proposals 
Pepper could  potentially be left with an unfinished building site adjoining its property which  
would be likely to diminish the value of its existing security. I dont see that as an 
unreasonable objection.
The objections to the second  proposal  could be cured if the funds for the bridging finance/  
equity release scheme could be released  and paid simultaneously to Pepper with the sale of 
the portion of land. Mr and Mrs B believe that this was the proposal put to Pepper but Im 
afraid thats not how I read the proposal  which seems to involve  a sequence of events. 
Firstly, that the property is sold and then the bridging finance  or equity release providers 
assess the value  of the remaining property  and decide whether to lend on that or not. But 
there is no evidence  that the equity release has been approved  and in fact a letter from the 
brokers of 12 September  2019 tells me that there have only been  preliminary discussions 
and nothing concrete.  
Ref: DRN13409273My view is that Pepper dealt fairly with the proposals  put to it in 2018. I dont accept that 
Pepper was asked to consider a simultaneous sale and refinance  package and I dont 
uphold the main part of the complaint.  It seems that in September  2019 Mr and Mrs B were 
talking to an equity  release provider. It may be that these talks were  put on hold pending this 
decision. But I agree  with our investigator that if these proposals  involve a simultaneous  sale 
and equity release  that Pepper should give consideration  to it. I note that the equity release 
adviser in September last year said that the preliminary discussions looked promising but 
thats not yet a commitment to provide one. 
So, for the above reasons  I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  I agree with our investigator 
that there  were several instances  of delay and some  lack of clarity in Peppers grounds for 
coming to a decision on the proposals and I believe that the compensation offered of £500 
by Pepper is fair.
Although Pepper  issued  legal proceedings - and I can understand it doing in the absence  of 
a reasonable proposal to pay off the balance - these  are on hold pending this decision. 
Since our investigator issued his view the Covid-19 pandemic has also had an effect which  
may impact the options that Mr and Mrs B have. 
As Ive indicated above, and as was our investigators opinion,  if Mr and Mrs B can provide 
evidence that a simultaneous sale and equity release or bridging loan could be achieved,  
then I would expect  Pepper to consider the viability of that. But if Pepper  rejects that 
proposal, I would  expect Pepper  to set out in writing why that was the case.  It seems  to me 
that if such a proposal is viable that Mr and Mrs B should be able to put it to Pepper within 
three months of this decision and Pepper  should  allow Mr and Mrs B a further period if 
required for the proposal to be implemented. 
If such a proposal isnt viable, I recognise  that Mr and Mrs B may have to sell their property  
and I would expect  Pepper to give Mr and Mrs B a reasonable  amount  of time to do this of 
about six months, with the progress of the sale to be reviewed at the end of that period. 
Mr and Mrs B should also make the interest payments on the outstanding balance  of the 
mortgage in the meantime. I would also expect Mr and Mrs B to maintain regular contact 
with Pepper as to what  their plans are.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 September 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1340927