K820x#14complaint
Miss I is unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has settled a claim on her car 
insurance policy. 
background
Miss I was involved  in an incident  with another  car in November 2017. Miss I reported the 
incident to her car insurance policy provider, UKI. The other  driver thought Miss I was 
responsible for the accident. So she claimed  for the cost of repairing her car on Miss Is 
insurance policy. UKI settled the other drivers  claim for damage to her car. Miss I doesnt  
agree with this decision  as she didnt  think it was fair. Miss I is also unhappy that the other 
driver is claiming for personal  injury.
UKI says it asked an engineer to review the damage on both respective cars. And it said the 
engineer couldnt rule out that the damage  to the other drivers  car was caused by the impact 
with Miss Is car. So it felt it had no option other than to settle the claim.  UKI says the 
personal injury claim is still ongoing  and is yet to be agreed.
Miss I brought her complaint to our service.  Our investigator looked at the complaint  and 
explained that we dont  decide liability as this is the role of the courts. He thought that UKI 
had investigated  the claim on damages and reached its decision in a reasonable way so he 
didnt uphold  the complaint. 
Miss I didnt agree with this and asked for an ombudsman to review the case. She says that 
the incident was a low speed collision so it couldnt  have caused  that much  damage.  She 
also said the other driver said at the scene that the damage had been caused by a previous 
incident. She further said that it isnt clear  whether her car went into the other car or if the 
other car rolled into hers.  So the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Is complaint.  I understand this will come as a disappointment  to her but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
UKI hasnt  settled the other drivers personal injury  claim yet as I understand its awaiting 
proof of the personal injury. I appreciate that Miss I think its unfair that the other driver has 
made this personal  injury  claim, but I cant look at that. And, as UKI hasnt settled the claim 
as of yet, I cant say whether its fair that the personal injury claim gets settled or not. So in 
this decision Ive focused on whether it was fair of UKI to have found Miss I at fault for the 
accident and settled the other drivers claim for damage to her car. 
Firstly I should set out that its not my role to decide who was at fault for the incident. I can 
only look to see if UKI made  its decision on how to settle the claim fairly and reasonably  and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Ref: DRN19490032Miss Is policy has a term which  allows  UKI to take over and settle a claim as it sees fit. This 
means UKI might make a decision to settle a claim which Miss I doesnt agree with, but the 
policy allows  this to happen. Any decision on how to settle  a claim should be made after 
carrying out a proper investigation.  
Insurers deal with claims regularly and make decisions based on experience,  previous cases  
and likelihood  of success if the case went to court. And this isnt unfair.  
Miss I strongly believes that the other drivers  car had pre-existing damage that shes  said 
was present before the accident. When the accident occurred, she says she was in steady 
traffic so she says it isnt clear whether her car went into the other drivers car or if their car 
rolled into hers. She says it was a low speed collision so it couldnt have caused the level of 
damage the other driver  is claiming.  UKI says that when it called Miss I to notify  her of the 
claim, she said that the front of her car went into the back of the other drivers car. 
Ive listened to the telephone calls where it first discussed the incident with Miss I and, in 
addition to what UKI has said, I also note Miss I didnt  allege that the other driver reversed 
into her car in these  calls.  So I dont think it was unfair for UKI to say that it couldnt  dispute 
liability for the accident in this case. 
UKI says there were no independent witnesses  or CCTV footage.  So it considered its 
experts opinions  who had reviewed the respective damage on each car. And it said he 
thought the damage to the other  drivers car was possibly caused by Miss Is car.   
UKI says its expert opinions say Miss Is car is a heavier  and a larger  car in comparison to 
the other drivers car which is lighter and smaller with minimal  crash resistance. It says the 
impact damage on the other car was consistent  with Miss Is car - and that there were no 
other independent witness or CCTV footage to support Miss Is position. It acknowledged  
Miss Is comments that she said the other driver said the damage was caused by the 
previous incident.  But it said that, given its engineers comments,  it thought its chances of 
success would be low if it took the claim to court.
I understand Miss I strongly disagrees  with UKIs  decision.  But I think it acted  fairly  and 
reasonably when carrying out its investigation  taking into consideration the available 
evidence, which in this case were its expert opinions - and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. So I dont  think  it needs  to do any more. 
Miss I says UKI closed  the claim and then re-opened  it later. UKI says the claim wasnt 
closed at any time but it was being  reviewed  by its claim  validation department whilst the 
investigation was ongoing which took some time. Having  considered  the information 
provided by UKI, I cant see that the damages  claim was closed. I can see the investigation 
took some  time. But I think  theres always likely to be some level of inconvenience when an 
insurance claim takes place. I dont  think Miss I has suffered more inconvenience than what 
is reasonable, so I wont be asking UKI to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Ref: DRN19490033Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1949003