K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complained that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card in 2000. 
background
I can see Barclays has already paid Mrs B some  money for the high level of commission and 
profit sharing  it got from selling  the PPI to her. But one of our adjudicators said Mrs Bs 
actual mis-sale complaint  should also be upheld. 
Barclays didnt agree with this and the complaint has been  passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Ive been sent Mrs Bs original Barclaycard application form from 2000. Ive looked at this 
and can see she didnt  agree to buy any PPI at that time. Although there was an option on 
the form to ask for PPI, Mrs B didnt  tick the box.
Barclays confirms this and says the PPI policy was added to her account a few days  later 
during a phone  call of some  sort. But it cant say whether  it phoned her, or the other  way 
around.
So its clear to me that Mrs B didnt want any PPI when she applied for her credit card and it 
was added a short time after this. However,  Barclays cant  show me anything  that confirms  
or suggests Mrs B agreed to this sudden change of mind. And looking at Mrs Bs situation of 
that time,  I find it quite  unlikely that she didnt want any PPI when she filled out her 
application  but did shortly after. 
Barclays sent me a number of documents about the rules governing  the selling of PPI and 
some details about Mrs Bs account.  
Whilst Im grateful for these, they dont add anything to this particular  case. What  Ive seen 
shows that Mrs B didnt want any PPI. Barclays hasnt got any evidence to make me think 
she changed her mind between the short period  of her applying  for the card and supposedly 
speaking to Barclays on the phone. So having considered everything  including  Mrs Bs 
situation - Ive decided  its more  likely  than not, that she didnt give her consent to this policy 
being added to her card.  
I therefore dont  need to explain anything  else. Providers of policies like this are required to 
get the agreement and consent of consumers during these sales.  Barclays cant  show me it 
did this.
It follows that Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN16547042fair compensation
Barclays should put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. Barclays should find out how much  Mrs B would owe on her credit card if the policy  
hadnt been added to it. It should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums.  It should also remove any charges  that were  
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between  what  Mrs B owes  and what she 
would have owed. If Mrs B made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy,  Barclays  can 
take off what she got for the claim  from the amount it owes  her. It can also take off the 
commission element  it has already paid Mrs B.
B. If when  Barclays works  out what Mrs B would  have  owed each  month without PPI  
Mrs B paid more  than enough  to clear her balance, Barclays  should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs B paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs B wouldve owed  Barclays something  on her credit  card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
C. Barclays should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Barclays  to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mrs B a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint against  Barclays Bank  UK PLC and require it to pay the 
compensation set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1654704