K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Secure Trust Bank PLC, trading as V12 Retail Finance, (V12) didnt 
give him the finance agreement hed selected.
background
Mr M obtained a bike through an online retailer using  finance provided by V12. There  was an 
option to choose a buy now pay later (BNPL) agreement   no payments  for 12 months and 
then 12 monthly interest free payments. But the agreement that was set up for him was for 
24 monthly payments,  starting a month after the bike had been delivered.
Mr M phoned V12 before the bike was delivered to ask it to transfer his finance to the 
arrangement that hed selected. It said it would investigate, but in the meantime the bike was 
delivered and Mr M started  making the monthly  payments.
Around two months  later,  V12 completed its investigation and told Mr M it couldnt  amend 
the finance agreement  hed signed a 24 month 0% APR agreement. And that if he wanted 
to cancel the agreement,  he needed to contact  the retailer. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. He couldnt  conclude that 
the wrong agreement  had been provided by V12. But he thought that V12 shouldve  made 
things clearer during its phone call with Mr M and that V12 should pay him £150 for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
V12 didnt  agree saying, in summary, that:
Mr M shouldve read the agreement terms and conditions  before he signed it.
He shouldve contacted the retailer if he wanted to cancel the agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  what I consider is most likely to have happened  in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr M says he wanted, and selected,  to pay for the bike on a BNPL arrangement with 
payments over 12 months  starting  in the 13th month and on an interest free basis.  But the 
terms he signed were for interest free payments over 24 months. The agreement says:
You agree  to pay 23 monthly  payments  of £81.13  followed  by a final monthly payment of 
£80.93.
I can see why Mr M thought hed selected  the agreement he wanted   both were described 
as 0% APR arrangements  over 24 months. But I think the terms of the agreement were  
made reasonably clear   and theres  no mention of a BNPL arrangement in the agreement 
that Mr M signed.
Ref: DRN13663802But I agree  with our investigator. I dont think Mr M was given clear enough information when 
he phoned V12 to complain and to ask to swap to the agreement he wanted. V12 said it 
would investigate and get back to him before the end of the cooling off period so that Mr M 
would be able to cancel the agreement  if it couldnt be changed. But I dont think V12 
wouldve changed the agreement. It would always have  had to be cancelled  and a new 
agreement set up. This shouldve been  made clear to Mr M when he phoned.
Mr M couldve cancelled the agreement during the cooling off period, even though V12 
hadnt got back to him. But even taking this into consideration  I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for V12 to pay Mr M £150  for giving him unclear information.
my final decision
My final decision is that Secure Trust Bank PLC, trading as V12 Retail Finance, should pay 
Mr M £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1366380