K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  wont  complete all the repairs needed to his 
caravan under his caravan insurance policy, He wants it to complete them  all, or include 
VAT within its offer of cash to make the repairs and to compensate him for his loss of use.
background
Mr Fs caravan was damaged in an incident  and he made a claim. An inspecting engineer 
said the repairs couldnt be completed without  also addressing a pre-existing damp problem. 
Mr F said this had been made worse by the incident. Ageas offered Mr F cash to have the 
incident-related repairs done,  but it said it would deduct VAT from this. Mr F was unhappy 
with this. He later disposed of the caravan. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  damp 
and damage caused  by water leakage was excluded under the policy terms and conditions. 
An expert engineer  had said that the pre-existing  damp  had been  worsened by the incident. 
But the investigator didnt think Ageas needed to pay for this to be repaired. He thought  it 
was fair for Ageas to not include VAT in the cash  settlement. 
Mr F replied that he thought the further  deterioration  was due to the recent  incident.  He said 
the initial damp had been  caused by an incident  that he hadnt claimed for. He said the 
damage was caused by water ingress,  not the excluded water leakage.  He said hed taken 
successful action to repair the first damp  problem.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr F is frustrated by Ageas decision about his claim. Our approach in 
cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted fairly and reasonably  and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy.
As the investigator  has pointed out, the policy terms and conditions contains  an exclusion for 
damage caused by water  leakage or any gradually  operating process such  as rust or 
damp. 
Ageas said this included the pre-existing damage  to Mr Fs caravan. Mr F said that the damp  
problem was caused by water ingress and this wasnt excluded by the policy.  
But, I disagree. I think the two phrases can be seen as synonymous. Also, I think,  looking at 
Mr Fs first reports of the claim incident, the problem  had been there for some time. He said 
he had decided to live with it but now wanted to have it dealt with alongside the claim-related 
repairs. 
So I think this means that he thought the damp  problem was gradually operating and not due 
to a sudden or unexpected event. And therefore  it was excluded from cover as Ageas has 
already explained. 
Ref: DRN12464032Mr F also thought that the damp should be covered as it had been made worse by the 
incident. The investigator has already explained  that we dont  assess whether or how 
damage to a vehicle  would  be caused  as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, 
the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints  is to determine 
whether an insurance  company has considered all the available evidence  and whether it can 
justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
I can see that Ageas instructed an expert engineer to assess  the caravan. He assessed the 
caravan as not being a total loss. So the New for Old benefit of the policy  wouldnt apply. 
He accepted the repair quote for the incident-related damage  that Mr F provided as 
reasonable. He noted that the repairers wouldnt carry out these  repairs  unless the damp  
related damage  was also repaired. A separate quote  was provided for this. 
The engineer said the damp was advanced,  long-standing  and unrelated to the current 
incident. He said Mr Fs attempts at repair hadnt  been successful. Mr F hasnt provided any 
expert evidence to counter this opinion. So I cant say that Ageas  was wrong to rely on the 
engineers report  and decline to cover the damage  related to the damp. 
Mr F thought the recent incident may have made the problem worse.  But I note that the 
engineer commented that there  was a hole in the panelling that was letting in water  and this 
had remained uncovered. We expect consumers to take reasonable measures to mitigate  
their losses,  such  as preventing avoidable further damage.  So I cant  say Ageas should be 
responsible for water  damage  caused  by this. 
Ageas gave Mr F three  options  for dealing with the repairs  to his caravan. In two of these, 
Ageas said Mr F would have to pay for the non-incident related repairs but it would pay VAT 
for its part of the repairs. Mr F chose  cash settlement instead but he was unhappy that VAT 
was excluded from this. Ageas  has said that it would refund the VAT element if Mr F had 
repairs made and provided  a VAT invoice. But I can see that he decided to dispose  of the 
caravan instead.  
Our investigator has already explained that we think deducting VAT is fair and reasonable in 
the case of cash  payments instead  of repairs until the repairs  are made. This is because  the 
VAT element cant be accurately calculated, as the consumer might have the repairs  done  
more cheaply  or by someone not VAT registered,  and may not be incurred at all, as is the 
case here. So think its fair and reasonable for Ageas to pay Mr F the cash amount excluding  
the VAT element. 
Mr F said he hadnt claimed for the incident  that he said caused  the damp and that he may 
now do so. But I can see that his policy says that he must report  any incident  likely to result  
in a claim and then return a claim form within 30 days. Ageas said it hadnt been notified of 
the initial incident, and Mr F said he hadnt done  this. So I cant say that Ageas should 
consider the previous incident as a claim. 
It took Mr F some time to obtain  a quote from a repairer. He said this was because hed 
decided that the caravan was unroadworthy and he wanted the repairer  to come to him and 
they were reluctant to do so. But I cant reasonably hold Ageas responsible for this delay.  
So I think Ageas  has dealt with Mr Fs claim fairly and reasonably. I dont require it to do 
anything further  or pay him any compensation. 
Ref: DRN12464033my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1246403