K821x#15the complaint
Ms E says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on her. 
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems when it migrated its online system to 
a new platform.  Ms E says this meant she was unable to transfer  funds from her savings 
account with TSB to her current account  with a separate  bank. And this in turn meant she 
couldnt go on a holiday with friends.  
Ms E has also told us that, after the weekend of the migration, she was no longer able to 
transfer funds to her third party  bank account  as she used to. Because of this, she eventually  
withdrew the remaining funds in her savings accounts and stopped using them.  
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. She thought that £50 was a fair amount to resolve  
it. This was because she felt TSB gave Ms E enough warning that she wouldnt be able to 
use her online banking  on the weekend of the migration and her holiday. 
Ms E didnt think this was enough compensation and felt she should receive a significantly 
increased amount.  She felt that TSBs  actions  meant she missed  out on a trip with friends 
who she rarely gets to see. So she wanted  to be compensated for the missed opportunity. 
She also remained unhappy she was unable to use her accounts as she used to.
A second adjudicator looked  into the complaint. She felt that the statements showed  Ms E 
did have some access to her accounts on the weekend of the migration. And she agreed 
with the original adjudicators assessment of £50.
TSB accepted this recommendation. But Ms E still thought compensation in the region of 
£800 to £900 would  be suitable. So the case has been passed to me to decide.  
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After considering everything, I think £150 compensation better reflects the distress and 
inconvenience Ms E has been caused.  And Ill explain why.
It appears Ms Es complaint is about  two main  issues. The first issue is what happened on 
the weekend of the migration. The second is how Ms Es accounts  changed after the 
migration, meaning  she was no longer able to transfer funds  to third party accounts outside 
TSB.
Ms E says that on the Friday afternoon  before the migration, she got a text from TSB letting 
her know  thered be no online access to her accounts that weekend.  As Ms E was working at 
the time she didnt see the text until it was too late to make  a transfer to her separate current  
account. Ms E says this meant she couldnt  go on the trip the next day. 
TSB says it sent earlier communications to consumers about  the upcoming  migration and 
explained that online banking wouldnt be accessible for a few days.  It says this was via text 
and e-mail. I see no reason why TSB wouldnt have sent these messages to Ms E along with 
Ref: DRN15053732its other customers. So I think its likely TSB did give Ms E enough notice that she wouldnt 
be able to access her online banking over that weekend.  So I dont think TSB is responsible  
for Ms E being unable  to go on her trip.  
The second  issue  is the way Ms Es FlexAccount  savings  account changed after the 
migration. I can see on her statements  that, before the migration, she was regularly making 
transfers to her current account with a different bank. On the Monday after the migration she 
was able to make two faster payments to her third party account. But this was done over the 
telephone, not online. Ms E says the TSB employee  she spoke to explained that she would 
no longer be able to make  transfers  to third parties from her savings accounts. Shed first 
have to transfer her money to a TSB current account, which  Ms E didnt have.
I understand that the FlexAccount  Ms E had is an older account which hasnt  been  available 
to new customers for many years. So theres  a lack of information about how it works and 
what its terms and conditions are. TSB has told our service and Ms E that this account 
hasnt had the facility to transfer funds to third party accounts for years.  Despite that, for 
some reason  Ms E continued to be able to transfer funds to her third party  account.  It isnt 
clear why or how this happened  but it seems Ms E was able to use this feature for a lot 
longer than she shouldve been able to.
 
Its most  likely that when TSB migrated its online system, Ms Es ability to transfer funds to 
third party accounts  was finally removed. Meaning the accounts features were  changed  to 
what they shouldve  been years before. So it appears the error here is that TSB didnt 
remove this feature previously when  it shouldve done. 
Considering everything, I dont think TSB is directly responsible for Ms E being unable to 
attend the trip on the weekend of the migration. And TSB hasnt made  an error in removing 
the FlexAccounts ability to transfer  funds to third party accounts; though this feature 
shouldve been  removed at some point  previously.  
I can see how the delay  in removing this feature and the knock on effect  of TSB not 
explaining this to Ms E in good time has had a negative  impact on Ms E. It meant that when 
the feature  was removed, she no longer had easy access to her savings as the account no 
longer worked  as she expected it to. This ultimately  led to her feeling she had to stop using  
her savings accounts with TSB. And I think £150  compensation  for the impact  this lack of 
communication has had on Ms E is a fair amount. 
putting things right
To put things right TSB should pay Ms E £150  for the impact  the IT issues  had on her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Es complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Ref: DRN15053733Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1505373