K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) has accepted responsibility for the sale and this complaint.
So Ive referred  to FICL during this decision.
background
Mrs M applied for a store card in November 1996. At the same time she was sold a PPI 
policy. 
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs M no more  than £1 per £100 of the monthly  outstanding  balance. 
It wouldve  paid a monthly benefit  of 15% of the outstanding balance if Mrs M was unable to 
work due to ill-health,  an accident or if she lost her job. This would continue until either     
Mrs M returned  to work or the balance was cleared. During the time the policy was active on 
Mrs Ms account she was charged £638.66  in PPI premiums.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld.
Mrs M didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
The sale of the PPI took place over 20 years ago. I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have  happened,  taking  into account  the evidence available,  what   both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs M that the PPI was optional. 
Mrs M applied for the store card using a leaflet most likely given to her while  shopping. 
FICL has shown us a copy of the original store card application form. I can see that there is 
a section on the form headed,  Protection For Your Payments & Purchase Cover.  Within 
this section is a brief description of the cover  followed by a statement that reads:
Yes, I want my account covered by Payment Protection  (subject  to eligibility).  Please debit 
my account  with the relevant monthly premium until further notice.
Beside this statement there is a box which has been  ticked. Mrs Ms initials  also appear 
beside the box. There is nothing on the application  form that implies  the PPI was necessary 
to obtain the credit.
Ref: DRN10107862There are other options on the form which have not been chosen  such as the option  to 
purchase a plan to protect against theft and fraudulent use of the card.  
I dont know who completed the application  form and it may well have been a member  of the 
store staff.  But even  if it had been,  I think it would likely have been completed with Mrs Ms 
input as it includes personal information such as her telephone number and previous 
address. And I can see the application  has been signed by Mrs M.
After taking everything into account I think FICL  most likely made it clear that Mrs M didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this after more than 20 years.
  
I dont think FICL advised Mrs M to take the policy out. So it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy  was suitable for her. But FICL did have to give Mrs M clear  information  so 
that she could  make a choice about whether or not to take the policy  out.
Its possible that FICL didnt give all the information  it should have done. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mrs M would have 
changed her mind about buying the policy if she had been given better  or clearer  
information. I cant say she would have done.  I say this because.
Mrs M was eligible for the PPI based  on her circumstances at the time of the sale. So 
shed have been able to make a claim if she needed  to.
If Mrs M couldnt  work due to ill-health the policy  wouldve  paid out 15% of her 
outstanding balance every month until the balance had been paid off or she returned  
to work. And it wouldve  paid the same benefit  if Mrs M lost her job. 
 
Mrs M has said her employer wouldve  paid her sick pay if she couldnt work, and has 
said she could rely on her husband to help if she couldnt work. But the policy would 
pay any benefit in addition to her sick pay. And potentially  for longer than her full sick 
pay would last. The policy would also mean Mrs M would not have to rely on her 
husband to make  the repayments. From the application form I think Mrs M was 
interested in the cover  it provided. So I still think Mrs M wouldve found the policy  
useful if things went wrong.
The policy had some exclusions  and restrictive terms. But Mrs M wasnt affected by 
these. For instance Mrs M has told us she didnt have any medical  conditions  at the 
time of the sale which the policy wouldnt have covered.
So, taking everything  into account I think its likely Mrs M was made aware  the PPI was 
optional and chose  to add it to her account.  And I think that even if Mrs M had been  given 
clear information about the policy shed still have gone ahead  and bought it. 
Ref: DRN10107863my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Financial Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1010786