K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1995 Mr and Mrs A took out a joint mortgage  and PPI. The policy provided cover in the 
event of accident, sickness and unemployment  for up to 24 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed. They  mainly  feel PPI 
was mis-sold because it wasnt properly explained to them  and they say they wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  given  the choice.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr and Mrs As case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs A took out this mortgage  and PPI in a Nationwide branch. I dont know what  
Nationwide said during the meeting. But I think the mortgage paperwork Mr and Mrs A 
signed made it clear  that it was up to them to say if they wanted  to take out PPI.
Ive seen the mortgage application they completed.  Theres  nothing mentioned in 
Mr and Mrs As signed mortgage application  that suggests they had to have PPI. In the PPI 
part of the form it asks: Do you want Mortgage  Payment Cover? And there  are Yes and 
No boxes to tick as required. So I think Mr and Mrs A wouldve been  able to see that PPI 
was optional and it was up to them to say if they wanted to take it out alongside their 
mortgage. 
The Yes  box is ticked on Mr and Mrs As mortgage application indicating that they wanted 
to have this insurance.  
Mr and Mrs A say the advisor made  assumptions about their requirements and the form was 
pre-ticked for them  to sign. And I accept that this form may have been filled in for them  by 
Nationwide. But I think its likely that the information  on the form wouldve reflected 
discussions the advisor had with Mr and Mrs A. I think its reasonable to expect that 
Mr and Mrs A wouldve looked carefully  over the completed application  before  signing to 
make sure it reflected their wishes. And I think  its fair to say that by signing the completed 
application they were indicating  they agreed  with the information  on the form. 
So I cant fairly uphold  their complaint that Nationwide mis-sold them PPI, just based on 
what Mr and Mrs A say now.  Its completely  understandable if theyve forgotten some of the 
details of a sale that took place so long ago. Based on all the information Ive seen, I think 
its likely  that Mr and Mrs A agreed  to the PPI, knowing that they didnt have to.
Ref: DRN18450912Nationwide says it didnt  recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs A. And even if Mr and Mrs A 
feel that PPI was recommended to them, I dont think a recommendation to have  PPI 
wouldve been unsuitable  so this doesnt  affect the outcome of their complaint. But Ive 
looked carefully at whether Nationwide gave them  enough information to make a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for them  and if it didnt do this, Ive thought  about 
whether that makes  any overall difference to what happened.
Mr and Mrs A were  both eligible for the PPI policy. And as they were  both earning  and 
contributing to the mortgage the shared  benefit split looks reasonable to me. 
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs A told us about their circumstances  including  their 
entitlement to standard sick pay. If Mrs A and/or Mr A made a successful accident or 
sickness claim the policy wouldve paid out for significantly  longer than I think  its likely they 
couldve depended on getting sick pay from their employers - up to 24 months per claim. 
And it wouldve also paid out for up to 24 months per claim if either of them  became 
unexpectedly unemployed.
It doesnt look as if they had significant other means  to depend on if they werent working.  
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  And I dont know  if 
Mr and Mrs A wouldve always had savings  to rely on if theyd needed  to make a claim.  It 
looks like they mightve put at least some savings towards the costs  of buying and setting up 
their new home. 
Looked at overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs A couldve easily manged the mortgage monthly 
repayments for very long if they werent both working. So I think  the policy was worthwhile 
for them.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover but it doesnt  look as if this wouldve affected 
Mr and Mrs A. Ive taken into account  that Mrs A had changed jobs by the time the mortgage 
started, and she was only in her next job for around  six months  before changing employers 
again. But I havent seen anything in the policy document to make me think  this wouldve 
made it harder for her to make a claim on the policy if shed lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work  wherever shed been working at the time. So I dont think having more  
information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve  put Mr and Mrs A off taking 
it out. 
The mortgage offer explained that there would be a monthly payment for the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs A couldve declined  or cancelled the policy if they didnt want  the benefits the 
policy offered them  or if they didnt want to pay each  month to keep it running. 
Mr and Mrs As mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of 
time. Their home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided a dependable  means  of ensuring the monthly mortgage  repayments were 
protected even  if they couldnt  work. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs A mightve  felt PPI was 
useful at the time. Even if Nationwide  didnt  give Mr and Mrs A all the information it shouldve  
done I think they still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as it 
gave them useful  protection in their particular situation. I dont think having better information 
wouldve stopped  them buying it.
This means  I dont  find that Mr and Mrs A lost out as a result of anything that Nationwide did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
Ref: DRN18450913I appreciate that what Ive said will be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs A. But I hope  that setting 
things out as Ive done  will help explain how Ive reached my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1845091