K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc (then trading as Abbey National  but Ill just refer to 
Santander from now on) mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The complaint Im looking at is about the sale of a PPI policy taken out in 1999 to protect  
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage monthly  repayments. The policy  covered Mr W for unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion. Mr and Mrs W mainly said that the pros and cons  of the policy werent discussed 
with them  and this PPI was sold without any proper  explanation. Mr and Mrs W also say they 
wouldve had no reason to take out PPI in June 1999 as they already had PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no paperwork available now to show how PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs W. But as this 
happened a long time ago, I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs W or Santander to have kept this. 
And a financial business  isnt required to keep paperwork indefinitely.  When  personal private 
information is no longer likely to be needed,  it can be destroyed. Data  protection  laws set out 
rules about  this. Destroying old paperwork helps to keep customers  private details secure. 
I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs W feel frustrated by the lack of paperwork. But the fact that 
Santander cant now produce the sale documents  isnt a reason  for me to uphold  this 
complaint. 
Its also completely understandable that Mr and Mrs W mightve forgotten some of the details  
of this sale as it was so long ago. This means that what Mr and Mrs W say isnt enough on 
its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
Where theres only limited information and its unclear what happened I have to look at 
everything Ive been told and sent and decide what I think  is most likely.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs W told us they were already  paying for PPI they say 
wouldve protected Mr W - so theres  no reason they wouldve taken out this cover in 1999. 
But theres very limited  information about  this. I dont know what  other  cover  Mr and Mrs W 
mightve been paying for, or how they had come to have it. After  checking through the 
records Santander has sent us, I think its likely they took this policy out in 1999. 
Mr and Mrs W have  sent us copies of bank statements that suggest they mayve had PPI 
earlier than 1999.  But I havent seen enough information about  this other insurance to be 
able to say that the PPI Mr W took out in 1999 duplicated existing  cover. So this isnt a 
reason for me to uphold  a complaint that Santander mis-sold Mr and Mrs W PPI in 1999. 
Ref: DRN11676512Ive proceeded  on the basis Santander probably sold PPI to Mr and Mrs W in 1999,  and this 
decision relates only to that sale. Looking at what this service knows  about  the way 
Santander sold PPI around this time,  and what Santander has told us, I think its likely  PPI 
wasnt automatically included with Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage in 1999  they wouldve had to 
apply separately  for the cover if they wanted  to have it. 
I havent seen  how Mr and Mrs W applied for PPI. But it looks like Mr W must have filled in a 
separate application form in order to have it added on to the mortgage.  I say this because  
Santander sent a letter to Mr W in July 1999 which said welcome to mortgage payment 
protection with Paymentcare... (this is what Santander called its PPI).
And I think there mustve  been some discussion about the cover first because in my view the 
schedule enclosed with the letter shows theyd selected the level of cover they wanted when 
they opted for unemployment cover only, just for Mr W. 
So, on balance, I think it wouldve been clear to Mr and Mrs W that it was up to them to say if 
they wanted to take out PPI. And that it was added to the account  when they chose the 
cover they wanted  to have. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI and it looks like it was suitable based on what Ive 
seen of Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time. Ill explain why.
It looks to me like Mr W was eligible for the policy given his circumstances  and the PPI terms 
and conditions that applied. The schedule of cover  Santander sent him with its welcome 
letter shows  that Mr W was employed  at the time.
I havent seen  anything to suggest it was inappropriate that the cover was just in Mr Ws 
name.
The PPI couldve  paid out for up to 12 months  per claim if Mr W lost his job. And he couldve 
made repeated claims. So the policy wouldve given Mr and Mrs W long term cover for their 
mortgage. Their  mortgage was a major  financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Ws home 
wouldve been at risk if the mortgage  payments werent kept up to date. I think its likely that 
losing Mr Ws income  wouldve had a significant  impact on their joint finances. So, I can see 
why they mightve  felt it was useful having  PPI to protect Mr Ws income in the event he lost 
his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of any redundancy payment Mr W got. And looking at what 
theyve told me about their circumstances, I think having unemployment cover couldve been 
helpful for Mr and Mrs W at the time, even if theyve  forgotten now why they decided  to have 
it. And, to my mind,  the fact they successfully made a claim under it when Mr W lost his job 
in 2002 supports that view.
Its possible some of the information  Mr and Mrs W were given about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. There were some  things the policy  didnt cover. But it doesnt  look as if 
those applied in Mr Ws case.  So, I dont think having more information  about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take out the policy.
Ref: DRN11676513I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs W at the time they bought the 
policy. But looking at the welcome letter it appears  Mr W had signed an instruction form to 
his bank to cover the monthly cost. So it seems  Mr and Mrs W were  happy at the time to pay 
for it and the policy appears to have been affordable for them.  And as they were paying  for 
the PPI monthly,  they could cancel it without  further cost if their situation changed or they no 
longer wanted  it.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs W still wouldve decided  to buy the policy even if theyd been given 
clearer information as it gave useful protection in Mr and Mrs Ws particular  situation.  
This means  I dont  find that Mr and Mrs W have  lost out as a result  of anything  that 
Santander mightve done wrong when it sold them PPI in 1999. So it doesnt need to do 
anything to put things right.
Ive taken into account what Mr W has told us about  what happened when he claimed  under 
the policy. But that doesnt mean the PPI must  have  been mis-sold when they took it out and 
it isnt a reason  for me to uphold this complaint. This decision is only about the sale of the 
policy. So, as our adjudicator has previously made  clear, if Mr and Mrs W wish to pursue the  
concerns theyve mentioned about how the claim made under the policy  in 2002  was dealt 
with, they have to do this separately with the relevant insurer, not with Santander,  
I know Mr and Mrs W feel strongly. I realise theyve put time and effort  into this complaint 
and will be disappointed at the outcome. But, based  on the information Ive got, I dont think  
I can fairly and reasonably say that the PPI was mis-sold to them.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1167651