K820x#14complaintcomplaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2006. Mrs M says AIB Group (UK) Plc - trading as First Trust (AIB) - mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
AIB had to make sure Mrs M was aware the policy was optional.  Mrs M says she took out a 
loan in branch  and was told by the representative that she had to take out the PPI to get the 
loan. AIB has been able to give us a copy of Mrs Ms loan agreement and lending proposal  
form from the time of the sale. 
The loan agreement  had a separate section for PPI headed as optional  payment protection 
plan. This section has the option  to select or decline the policy and then if an applicant  
selects the PPI to then choose different levels of cover. On Mrs Ms form, the option to take 
the policy has been marked with an x and the level of cover for life, critical illness and 
disability has been opted. The form is pre-printed  with Mrs Ms details.  I think a conversation 
took place between Mrs M and AIBs  representative  and the application has been  completed 
based on what was discussed and then printed  off for Mrs M to read and sign.  
Theres nothing in the credit agreement that suggests the PPI cover was compulsory  or a 
condition of the lending. And Mrs M signed  the form so I think  if there was anything on the 
form she wasnt sure about or hadnt agreed  to, she wouldve had the opportunity  to question 
it at the time. 
So I think AIB made  it clear the policy was optional and Mrs M agreed to take it, although I 
can understand why she doesnt remember this now.  
AIB recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover   such as any 
existing medical conditions. Mrs M has said she had good level of sick pay from her 
employer, but the policy  she had didnt  include unemployment cover so this didnt make the 
policy unsuitable for her. And it doesnt look like she had any other  means  such as savings 
 to make  her loan repayments if she was too unwell to work.  
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  AIB gave Mrs M about  the 
PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. The PPI also looks  like it was affordable 
and she had the option to cancel it at any time. So I dont think  better  information about  the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  AIB doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN19323142But AIB will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
When the policy was sold,  AIB expected to get a high level of commission  and    profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mrs M about  that. 
Because AIB didnt  tell Mrs M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, AIB has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
AIB has to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. AIB should also pay back to Mrs M any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
AIB should pay back to Mrs M the extra she paid each month on the loan because the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mrs M paid if the loan was paid off early. AIB should  also pay Mrs M 8%* simple interest on 
the extra paid each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so AIB (UK) Plc does not have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs M.
But AIB (UK) Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1932314