K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold him a packaged 
bank account,  called  the Ultimate Reward Current Account  (URCA) in 2009. 
Mr N paid a monthly fee for the URCA and received several potential benefits  in return. He 
thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ns complaint and didnt think  that 
Bank of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to him. 
Mr N didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr Ns complaint.  Ive 
looked into everything that Mr N and Bank  of Scotland have told us or sent us about the 
case and Ive decided  not to uphold  it. Ill explain why.
Mr N and Bank of Scotland have agreed that Bank of Scotland sold the account to him when 
he visited one of its branches on other business. At that time, Mr N had one of Bank of 
Scotlands fee-free accounts  and he has told us that a member  of the banks staff said that it 
was going to stop providing this account,  and he had to change  to the URCA. The main  point 
of Mr Ns complaint is that he thinks Bank of Scotland  tricked  him into buying  the URCA and 
he then paid the fees for a long time for something he didnt need. Hes said that he thinks  
Bank of Scotland targeted him unfairly.
Bank of Scotland has denied tricking or targeting Mr N. It has said that it didnt tell him he 
couldnt keep  his fee-free account,  but told him about the URCA, and then gave him a fair 
choice about buying it.
On our questionnaire,  Mr N said that Bank  of Scotland recommended  the URCA to him, 
whereas Bank of Scotland  has said that it sold the account to him on a non-advised or 
information-only basis.  At that time, Bank  of Scotland often sold URCAs in this way, where it 
would tell customers about the account, but wouldnt make a personal recommendation. I 
havent seen anything to make me think that it did recommend the URCA to Mr N, so I have 
assessed his complaint  as a non-advised sale. This meant that Bank  of Scotland had to tell 
Mr N about the account  clearly and fairly  and give him a choice, but it didnt have to check  
that the account was right for his personal circumstances.
As such a long time has passed since Bank of Scotland sold the URCA, neither party has 
been able to send us any detailed notes from the discussion in the branch,  so I cant tell for 
sure what  took place. Instead,  I have assessed the evidence that is available to me to work 
out what is most likely  to have occurred.  
Ref: DRN12602832It would certainly have been unfair  of Bank of Scotland to tell Mr N he couldnt keep his fee-
free account. During our investigation into this complaint, there  has been some debate about 
exactly which type of fee-free account  Mr N held at the time. But accounts without fees were  
widely available in the UK at that time, both from Bank of Scotland  and its competitors, and 
Bank of Scotland has continued to provide  them.  I think  it unlikely that Bank of Scotland told 
Mr N he couldnt keep  such an account,  as this would have been obviously untrue. I accept 
that it may have described the URCA  positively to Mr N, but this isnt the same as denying 
him a choice, and I dont  think  it targeted him in the way he has described. 
In 2009, the potential benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, car breakdown cover,  
home emergency insurance and mobile phone  insurance. It also offered cheaper overdrafts 
than Bank  of Scotland generally  provided to customers  with fee-free accounts. I think  its 
highly likely  that Bank of Scotland  told Mr N about  some of these benefits.  After all, it was 
trying to sell the URCA to him and it would have been in its own interests to tell him what he 
would get in return for his monthly fee. 
Mr N has accepted that he knew he would have to pay for URCA, but has told us that he 
didnt want the benefits that came with it. In particular, hes mentioned  that he didnt need  the 
insurance cover as his partner worked in the insurance industry and they had alternatives  
available.
I accept that with hindsight Mr N may not have wanted all the potential benefits  that came  
with the URCA,  but it seems to me that in 2009  he may have found some of them  potentially  
useful. For example, I understand that he travelled in Europe form time-to-time and also 
drove a car, so he may have been  attracted by the travel insurance or car breakdown  cover. 
And packaged bank accounts like URCAs cant  usually be adapted  for precise  individual  
needs, so even if Mr N didnt want or need all of the benefits, I think it was still reasonable for 
Bank of Scotland to sell the account to him. And as I dont  think  that Bank  of Scotland 
advised Mr N to buy the URCA,  it would have been up to him to consider the alternatives 
available to him. 
In summary,  I cant tell if Bank of Scotland got everything right in the way it sold the URCA to 
Mr N, but I doubt that it denied him a choice  to keep his fee-free account and I think that it 
told him about the fees and the benefits  he could  get in return. So I dont think  that Bank of 
Scotland mis-sold the URCA  to Mr N. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ns complaint about 
Bank of Scotland Plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.  
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1260283