K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained about the service provided by RAC Insurance  Limited under his European 
breakdown policy.  
background
Mr Ss car broke down abroad. RAC arranged for it to be repaired and for replacement car 
hire. Afterwards Mr S was surprised that the car hire company had charged him personally  
for some things. He said he thought that RAC  would  cover  everything regarding the car hire 
as theyd organised  it. He felt that theyd  led him to believe  that, and that they should  have 
told him if they wouldnt. But RAC  said these costs  were  extras  that Mr S had agreed with 
the car hire company.  So they werent  covered under  his policy.  Mr S also complained  about  
RACs service  and the lack of communication between  RAC  and the car hire company.
The investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
RACs policy was clear  that, although  RAC  arranged the car hire, they werent responsible 
for all the car hire company charges. Mr S remained dissatisfied and so his case  has been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im looking  to see if RAC did anything wrong  in doing what  theyd promised to do under 
Mr Ss policy.
RAC did cover the costs  of Mr Ss car rental. But the hire car company charged Mr S more 
money for extra things.  They said this was for a complete protection package, extended 
roadside assistance, adding a second  driver, fuel, and an additional day of rental.  RAC  
accepted theyd made a mistake about the additional day of rental  and said theyd pay the 
charge for that. And Mr S accepted that adding a second driver and the fuel charges were  
his responsibility. But Mr S complained about the other charges and about RACs poor 
service and miscommunication.
Mr S felt that it was up to RAC to manage the car hire charges. He said that neither RAC nor 
the hire car company  told him that there were extras attached or that hed be expected to 
pay them  himself.
But RAC said that his policy said under the Hire Car Terms section on p.6:
 
3. Where we arrange a hire car we will pay the insurance and collision
damage waiver (this covers the cost of damage but there may still be
an excess).  If you leave the hire car at a different location to the one
arranged by us, you will need  to pay the hire car company any additional
costs.
Not covered
()
3. We will not provide breakdown cover for the hire car: and
4. Any cost of:
Ref: DRN15828482a. delivery and collection of the hire car and any fuel used;
b. fuel while  using the hire car; or
c. any insurance excess and additional costs.
Mr S felt that this wording  was ambiguous and misleading as it didnt state what level of 
insurance or what the additional costs were.  He felt that RAC had misled him when 
purchasing the cover  that they would fully manage  any issues he experienced in the event of 
a breakdown abroad. But I think that the policy clearly states that RAC doesnt  cover all of 
the costs related to the car hire. They would  arrange  the car hire, including  finding a car to 
hire and booking  it. And they would also pay for the cost of hiring  the car and insurance and 
collision damage waiver.  But that did not mean that they took on responsibility for all charges 
connected with the car hire.
Mr S thinks  that it was unfair of RAC to say they had no control of costs applied  by the car 
hire company. He said that he had regular phone calls with them with cost updates, and so 
they should  have picked up on any extra charges. But RAC say that they dont look at charges 
other than those they are obliged to pay. Its up to the consumer whether they want  to incur  
extras with the hire company and its not up to RAC  to query or verify extras if they did know 
about them. They said that they wouldnt necessarily even know about extra  charges.  And I 
dont think that unreasonable.  RAC said that if Mr S disputed the charges he should  do so 
with the car hire company.  
Mr S felt that it was reasonable  for him to assume from RACs actions that they were responsible 
or all the hire car costs. This was because they arranged  the car hire and return  and the hire car 
company were only asking him to sign a form to release the keys and car to him. But Im not 
persuaded by that. I think its clear from the policy that RAC would not pay for everything. I 
also think that if the car hire company asked Mr S to sign contracts  and asked him for his 
personal payment  information, this suggests that RAC wasnt  paying for everything, as 
otherwise the car hire company wouldnt have needed that from him. 
The car hire company contract was between them and Mr S. He told the investigator  that he 
didnt check the contracts  before signing them, as he thought that RAC were covering 
everything. But I dont  think  that RAC  had reasonably given him the impression that they 
were doing  that. So I think  it was up to him to check that RAC  would cover what he was 
signing for. This service  cant  look at the car hire companys  actions. And the policy  also 
makes clear  that when  RAC arrange a hire car that they arent responsibility for the hire 
companys actions. It says in section 20, on p.11:
b. for hire cars,  whilst we use reputable companies,  we are unable  to and
cannot be responsible for checking the condition of each vehicle or the
quality of service provided by each company;
And even  if Mr S hadnt been aware  of his policy terms, I think that he should been alerted 
when he wanted  RAC  to add his wife as second  driver on the hire car. RACs agents  abroad,  
who had arranged the car hire, told him then that they didnt deal with the administration  or 
the costs of that. 
Mr S felt that RACs  agent didnt communicate  well with the car hire company and they were 
confused about what was happening, couldnt  tell him exactly  what car hire amount  theyd  
pay, and gave him the wrong figures. He said that he was bewildered about what was 
happening with the charges and he was left to pay for RACs miscommunication. 
Ref: DRN15828483During his time abroad Mr S had to swap hire cars, extend the hire period and deal with 
different branches  of the car hire company in different  places. He signed more than one 
contract with the car hire company. It wasnt entirely  straightforward, and so I dont think that 
it was unreasonable for RAC not to know the detail of this at the time. And if RACs agents 
asked Mr S about this, I dont think that their service was discourteous or unprofessional.  
And though  it does  seem that RAC told him the wrong information, I think  that they were 
passing on information from the car hire company and couldnt  necessarily  know that it 
wasnt correct at the time or that the figures  then included extra  charges. And even if there 
was a lack of communication between the car hire company and RACs agents, Im not 
persuaded that it was unreasonable in the circumstances  or that it caused  the problem or 
made it worse.
Mr S was also unhappy that the car hire company could no longer provide copy records  and 
he felt that has hampered his case.  But as Ive already said,  this Service is looking at RACs 
actions, not those of the car hire company, and so I dont think  that it matters for these 
purposes. 
I can appreciate that this has been a very stressful situation for Mr S, particularly as the car 
hire company instructed debt collectors to pursue him for the debt. I see that what happened  
when he was abroad was stressful too. He had to collect and return  hire cars, to different 
offices in different locations. But I dont think that situation was RACs fault.  Its still up to 
Mr S to know  what his policy covered and to read before signing the contracts with the car 
hire company. I dont  think that RAC were misleading. They did arrange  car hire car for Mr S 
and they did pay for what their policy said they would. So I dont think  that RACs actions 
either caused the extra charge situation  or made it worse. I think  that RAC did what  they 
were required  to do under the policy and that they acted reasonably  in doing so. So that 
means that I dont require  them to do anything else.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1582848