K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mr K says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
Mr K took applied for the card and policy through the post. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr K says that Barclays made it abundantly  clear  that his application would  be looked on 
more sympathetically, and be more likely to be approved, if he took out the PPI. But I think  
Barclays made it clear that Mr K didnt have to take the PPI, and that he chose to take it out, 
although I can understand why Mr K cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Mr K applied for his card and PPI policy through the post. Barclays  has provided a copy of 
Mr Ks credit  card application.  On this I can see that the PPI is presented  as an optional  
product  there are two options, to take the PPI or decline  it. Both of these  are equally 
prominent. Neither option suggests that the outcome of an application would be influenced 
by taking or not taking PPI. The policy has been  selected with a tick, and Mr K has also 
signed the application agreeing to the information on it. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr K got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said, including what  hes said about  having sick pay 
and savings he couldve used to make his repayments  and that his wife, or in extreme 
circumstances, his daughter, couldve helped out with making his repayments.
But the PPI couldve  paid out on top of Mr Ks sick pay  and for longer than hes told us he 
had cover for  and protected his savings for other expenses. And while  Im sure that Mr Ks 
wife and daughter  wouldve been keen to help out, circumstances can change. And 
ultimately the credit card repayments  were  Mr Ks responsibility. So these points dont 
change my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN18435672my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1843567