K821x#15complaint
Mr F says Elevate  Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him. 
The complaint has been brought to this service on Mr Fs behalf by a claims management 
company but for ease I shall refer below  to all actions being taken by Mr F.
background
This complaint is about a running account  line of credit and 18 instalment loans Sunny 
provided to Mr F between October 2014  and December 2017. The line of credit facility  was 
Mr Fs first account with Sunny and is referred  to as Loan 1 below. All the instalment loans 
(except Loans 3 and 4) were  repayable  by six monthly instalments. Loans  3 and 4 were  
repayable by 12 fortnightly payments. All the accounts have been repaid. Mr Fs lending  
history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 3/10/14 30/10/14 £250 to 
£400
2. 15/2/16 22/2/16 £500
3. 1/3/16 11/3/16 £500
4. 12/3/16 24/3/16 £400
5. 1/3/17 24/3/17 £500
6. 10/4/17 14/4/17 £200
7. 28/4/17 8/5/17 £500
8. 10/5/17 13/5/17 £500
9. 23/5/17 1/6/17 £500
10. 19/7/17 24/7/17 £250
11. 28/7/17 23/8/17 £500
12. 18/9/17 22/9/17 £200
13. 18/10/17 24/10/17 £400
14. 23/10/17 24/10/17 £50
15. 4/11/17 22/11/17 £300
16. 8/11/17 22/11/17 £200
17. 24/11/17 7/12/17 £500
18. 14/12/17 30/12/17 £200
19. 19/12/17 3/1/18 £300
In its final response letter,  Sunny said that at certain points its product might not have been 
suitable for Mr Fs needs. It offered to refund the interest and charges paid on Loan  1 and 
pay 8% simple interest on the refunds. It said that there were no adverse entries on Mr Fs 
credit file to remove as Mr F had paid the loan on time.
Mr F rejected Sunnys offer.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator said that he didnt consider Loan 1 as Sunny had made an offer on it. He 
recommended that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld in part. He concluded that Loans 9 to 
19 shouldnt have been given to Mr F. The adjudicator said that by Loan 9, Mr F was 
showing signs that he was struggling  to repay some of his previous loans as hed taken five 
Ref: DRN18924732loans in less than three months and the loan amounts remained persistently the same  
except for Loan 6. And by Loan 11 Mr Fs pattern of borrowing  suggested that he had 
become persistently reliant on short term loans. 
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators recommendations.  It said that when Mr F applied for 
the loans, it had asked him for his monthly income  and all expenses including  short term 
loans. The lender said that Mr F had declared  his monthly income as between  £3,500 and 
£5,416 and on average he used  2.5%  of his monthly income to make the loan repayments. 
Mr Fs monthly  disposable income  was up to £4,089. So Sunny didnt accept the loans 
provided were unaffordable or that Mr F demonstrated an over reliance on its product. It took 
into account the loans Mr F had already  borrowed with it and which were still open when 
another loan was borrowed from it. It also said that there were  gaps  between  loans. Some of 
these were gaps of a few days  or weeks but this showed that Mr F wasnt  reliant on the 
loans. And all the loans had been  repaid early.
initial provisional conclusions 
After considering all the evidence,  I issued my first provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mr F and to Sunny on 13 February 2020.  I summarise my findings:
Id said that as Sunny had offered to settle Loan  1, Id not investigated this loan. But I would 
include the redress for this loan in my compensation award. 
Id noted that when  Sunny lent to Mr F the regulator  was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure Mr F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that Sunny was required to establish whether  Mr F could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN18924733I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Fs complaint.
I noted that from Loan 2, Sunny said it had made  a number of checks before it lent to Mr F. It 
had asked him for details of his monthly  income and expenditure. Mr Fs declared  income  for 
Loans 2 to 6 was between  £3,500  and £3,791.67.  This had increased to £5,416.67  from 
Loan 7 onwards. Mr Fs declared expenditure had ranged from £305  to £796 for those  loans.
Sunny had also checked Mr Fs credit file before agreeing to the loans. But I couldnt see 
that it had provided  us with a copy of its credit  checks. Wed also not received a credit report  
from Mr F. So I wasnt aware of any adverse information on Sunnys credit checks or Mr Fs 
credit report  that I thought  should  have caused  additional concerns to Sunny about Mr Fs 
financial situation.
From Loan  2, each  of Mr Fs loans was repayable over a six month  period. So the amounts 
that Mr F needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal  payday loan. 
But he was committing to making those repayments over a far longer period. Id also thought 
the fact that Mr F had always  repaid  his loans much earlier than planned should have 
caused some concerns  to Sunny. That might be the sort of behaviour  that would have 
indicated that someone was facing problems managing their money and needing to 
refinance loans  on a regular basis. So Id also taken  that into account when looking at 
whether Sunny should have given  the loans to Mr F.
Mr F had taken  out Loan 2 more than 15 months after Loan 1 was repaid. Id thought the gap 
between Loans  1 and 2 was sufficient for Sunny  to have looked at Mr Fs application afresh 
and effectively have  treated  him as a new customer at that time. Loan 2 was for £500 and 
repayable by six monthly instalments with a highest monthly  instalment  of £149.22. I could 
see that Mr F had declared an income of £3,500 and expenditure of £544. I didnt think  the 
repayment amounts  were  so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr F financial 
difficulty. And I didnt  think at that stage of its relationship with Mr F that Sunny had any 
reason to doubt the information  hed provided. 
Given Mr Fs repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the time,  
and that this was in effect his first loan with the lender, I didnt think  it wouldve been 
proportionate for Sunny  to have  asked him for the amount of information that would have 
been needed to show Loan 2 was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr F provided before Loan  2 or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what he was saying. So I didnt think Sunny was wrong to give Loan 2 to Mr F. 
Ref: DRN18924734Mr F repaid Loan 2 early and around  a week later he had taken out Loan 3 which was again  
for £500. Mr F repaid Loan 3 early and a day later he had taken out Loan 4 for £400. The 
highest monthly equivalent repayments on these loans were  £168.43  and £130.86 
respectively. Again  I didnt think the repayment  amounts were so large that it was obvious 
they wouldve  caused Mr F financial difficulty.  And I didnt think  at that stage that Sunny had 
any reason to doubt the information Mr F had provided. 
Given Mr Fs repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the time,  
and his history with the lender, I didnt  think it wouldve been proportionate  for Sunny to have 
asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  Loans 3 and 
4 were unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr F provided before Loans  3 and 4 or the 
information Sunny shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what he was saying.  So I didnt think Sunny was wrong  to give Loans 3 and 4 
to Mr F.
Mr F had taken  out Loan 5 just less than a year after repaying  Loan 4. Given  the length of 
time between Mr Fs previous loan closing and his applying  for Loan 5, I thought it was fair 
that Sunny again treated  Mr F as a new customer.  The monthly repayments on Loans 5 to 8 
ranged between  £62.51  and £159.40. I thought that the checks  Sunny did before agreeing 
these loans were proportionate.  The amounts that Mr F needed to repay were small 
compared with the disposable income hed declared. 
So given Mr Fs repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for Sunny to 
have asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  Loans 5 
to 8 were unsustainable. So I didnt think Sunny was wrong  to give Loans  5 to 8 to Mr F.
Loans 5 to 8 were all repaid early with Loans 6 to 8 being repaid within just ten days of being 
taken out. I thought that behaviour might have caused some concerns to Sunny. And by the 
time Mr F had taken out Loan  9 ten days after repaying Loan 8, I thought that Sunny should 
have realised that it couldn't safely rely on the information Mr F was providing about his 
finances. I thought  it should have taken steps  at that time to independently check  what hed 
declared. So I thought it might  have been proportionate at that time for Sunny  to have 
independently reviewed the true state  of Mr Fs finances. This was to make sure Mr F was in 
a position to make the repayments  sustainably.  As far as I could see Sunny didnt do this. So 
I needed to think  about what Sunny wouldve seen if it had carried  out proportionate checks.  
I would normally have  looked at the borrowers  bank statements to see what proportionate 
checks would likely  have shown. Mr F had provided his bank statements for the month 
before Loan 9. Having looked at these, I could see that Mr F appeared to have two 
outstanding short term loans totalling £2,200 with another  lender with repayments due 
around the same time as Loan 9. But even more concerning was that I couldnt see that Mr F 
was receiving any income in that period. So I thought if Sunny had made  proportionate  
checks, these wouldve  suggested that Mr F wouldnt  have been able to sustainably repay 
Loan 9. So I didnt think that Sunny should  have given Loan  9 to Mr F.
Loan 9 was again repaid early and Mr F had taken out Loan 10 around  seven  weeks later.  
Although the loan amount  had reduced  to £250, I thought Sunny should still have been 
concerned that Loan 10 was Mr Fs sixth loan in less than five months. I again thought 
Sunny should  have  been concerned that Mr F might have been  reliant  on its lending. And I 
Ref: DRN18924735didnt think it was reasonable for Sunny to base its assessment before Loan  10 on the 
information provided by Mr F without  taking steps to independently check  what hed 
declared. So again I thought it might have been proportionate at that time for Sunny to have 
independently reviewed the true state  of Mr Fs finances. As far as I could see Sunny didnt 
do this. So I needed  to think about  what Sunny wouldve seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
Id seen Mr Fs bank statements for part of the month before Loan 10 and his statements for 
part of the month following Loan  10. These showed  that Mr Fs income  was substantially 
less than hed declared to Sunny  (around £1,409 in June 2017 and around £1,314 in 
July 2017). Given what had gone  before, I thought  that if Sunny had made proportionate 
checks it would have  seen the discrepancy in Mr Fs income which  should have been  
enough for it to conclude  that Loan  10 was unlikely to be sustainable.  
Id looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending with Mr F to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  have provided any 
further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Fs case,  I thought that this point had been reached  
by Loan 11. I said this because:
Loan 11 was Mr Fs seventh loan in around  five months. Each of those loans had 
been repayable over a period of six months.  But Mr F had always paid those loans 
off far earlier than planned,  and (except  for Loans 6 and 10) had borrowed similar 
amounts very shortly afterwards. I thought that pattern of frequent  borrowing and 
repaying early should have indicated to Sunny that Mr F was most likely having  
significant problems  managing his money.
Mr F wasnt making any real inroads to the amounts hed owed Sunny. Loan 11 was 
for the same amount  as hed taken on Loan 5. And Mr F had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
Sunny  ought  to have realised that Mr F wasnt likely borrowing to meet  a temporary  
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
I could see that as Sunny didnt stop lending at this point, Mr F went  on to take out another  
eight loans in the following five months. I thought that Mr F had lost out because Sunny had 
continued to provide borrowing from Loan  11 onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness  by allowing him   
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
The number of loans  was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Fs ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
The fact that all of the loans were  repaid didnt mean that they were  repaid 
sustainably, or without having caused Mr F undue difficulty. 
Id taken into account that Sunny  had said that there was a gap of a few days  or weeks 
between loans which showed that Mr F wasnt reliant  on the loans. But Id disagreed.  I 
thought that by Loan 11 Sunny should have  been aware that there was an established 
pattern of borrowing and it ought  to have been concerned about this irrespective of the short 
length of pauses in Mr Fs applications.  
Ref: DRN18924736Id noted that Sunny  had also said that Mr F was paying an average of 2.5% of his monthly  
income to repay the loans. But as Id said above  better checks  (which would have been 
proportionate from Loan 9) would have shown that Mr F wasnt earning anywhere near what 
hed declared  to Sunny. So the loan repayments were a far higher percentage of his income.  
Id thought Sunny would also (or ought to) know from previous  decisions (as well as what  
was set out on our website) that there were cases where this service  considered  the overall 
lending pattern and not just the affordability  of each  loan.  And there would be times  when  the 
pattern of lending alone  was enough  to indicate that a consumer was likely to be in financial 
difficulty  or would otherwise have been harmed should relending have continued. 
And when  a consumer  borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most 
likely that the loans werent being  used for their intended purpose of temporary cash  flow 
problems. As Sunny  knew,  the FCA had made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..might be symptomatic of unsustainable  
lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
So, in addition to what Sunny had already  said about loan 1, I thought that Sunny needed  to 
pay Mr F some compensation relating  to Loans 9 to 19. Subject to any further 
representations by Mr F or Sunny my provisional  decision was that I intended to uphold this 
complaint in part. I intended to order Sunny to:
Refund all interest  and charges Mr F paid on Loan 1 and Loans  9 to 19 and pay 
interest of 8% simple  a year on such refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove adverse  entries about Loans 1, 9 and 10 from Mr Fs credit file;
Remove all entries about Loans 11 to 19 from Mr Fs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it was taken off if he asks for one. 
Sunny responded to my provisional decision to say that whilst it had originally offered to 
uphold Loan  1, it had reviewed Mr Fs file and was no longer willing to uphold  that loan.  It 
said that the amounts borrowed by Mr F were  affordable and the repayments  made  were  
sustainable. When it was originally investigating  the complaint its decision to uphold Loan 1 
was based on data about Mr Fs income  that was missing from the information it used to 
investigate the complaint.  Where data was missing,  its approach was to find in the 
customers favour. But it has since recovered the missing data.
Sunny also said that it didnt agree  with the approach in my decision. But it had no material 
comments to make  about the outcome.
Sunny also noted  that Mr F had repeatedly said that it had granted  credit to him which  was 
more than 50% of his monthly income and that he said it had increased his credit  limit. The 
lender noted that on the basis of the income  figures  Id ascertained  from Mr Fs bank 
statements, he wasnt granted a loan where  the capital borrowed was over 50% of his 
monthly income during the periods  hed provided  his bank statements to this service. Sunny 
also said that it hadnt increased  Mr Fs credit limit.
Mr F hasnt  provided a response to my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN18924737my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I can see that Sunny has withdrawn its offer with regard to Loan  1. So I need to investigate  
whether Sunny irresponsibly  lent this loan. 
Line 1 was a line of credit. Ive not seen a copy of the loan agreement  as Sunny wasnt  able 
to provide this. I wasnt aware of the credit limit on the agreement and the repayments to be 
made if the maximum amount was drawndown. So I asked the adjudicator  to ask Sunny for 
this information.  Sunny hasnt provided a response. So I have used the information it has 
provided to this service  previously to assess whether it lent responsibly.
I would have expected Sunny to make  proportionate  checks  when assessing whether the 
facility was affordable.  Id also have expected  Sunny  to have monitored Mr Fs repayment 
record and taken appropriate action where  there  were signs of possible difficulties in line 
with CONC 6.7.2.
I note that Sunny made a number of checks before it lent the credit facility  to Mr F. It asked 
him for details of his monthly  income.  Mr Fs declared income before Loan 1 was £3,500.  
I note that Sunny told this service that it checked whether the amount(s)  requested under the 
facility were affordable,  assuming Mr F would  draw the full amount of credit requested at one 
time. Sunny assessed the requested  amount as a proportion of Mr Fs declared income and 
applied this along with other business  rules,  to determine whether the amount of credit Mr F 
had applied  for was affordable. It also checked credit  reference agency data.
Sunny has provided  us with some information in its affordability document about its credit  
checks before Loan 1. It appears that there  wasnt any adverse information such  as 
bankruptcy, IVAs  or debt management plans. From this I dont think that Sunnys credit 
checks before Loan 1 should have caused  it additional concerns.
I note that Mr Fs running account credit facility  was to be repaid  by five monthly payments. 
So the amounts  that Mr F needed  to repay  each time were  smaller than if hed taken a 
payday loan. But of course he was committing to making those repayments over a far longer 
period. So I think  it would have been proportionate  for Sunny to have asked about Mr Fs 
regular expenditure before Loan 1. I cant see any expenditure information on Sunnys Loan 
Datasheet before Loan 1. So I cant say that Sunny made proportionate checks  before 
providing Loan 1 to Mr F although I think it was reasonable  for Sunny  to rely on the income 
amount of £3,500 declared  by him at that stage. 
The table below  shows Mr Fs drawdown  history. 
Drawdown 
numberDate  
drawdown 
madeAmount (£)
1 3/10/2014 250
2 7/10/2014 250
Ref: DRN189247383 23/10/2014 100
4 24/10/2014 400
It appears that the contractual repayments  for the drawdowns shown  above  ranged from 
£33.46 to a total monthly amount of around  £200.  In view of Mr Fs declared income of 
£3,500 I dont think the repayment amounts on the credit facility were so large  that its 
obvious they wouldve caused  Mr F financial difficulty. Given  Mr Fs repayment  amounts, that 
this was his first loan with Sunny and what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable. 
Sunny also needed to monitor  how Mr F was using this facility. I can see that the five 
monthly repayments for the first drawdown were around  £99 and it appears the total monthly 
repayment amount  for the first and second drawdowns was around £194. Mr F repaid the 
first two drawdowns early  on 14 October  2014.  He made a drawdown of £100 nine days  
after this repayment  and £400  a day later.  It appears the five monthly repayments for the 
third drawdown were around £33 and the total monthly repayment amounts for the third and 
fourth drawdowns were  between £166.12  and £200  although the exact amount isnt clear  
from the information I have. I note Mr F repaid his last two drawdowns  early on 
30 October 2014. But overall  I dont think that Mr Fs drawdown  record should have 
suggested to Sunny that he was experiencing difficulties. So Im not upholding Mr Fs 
complaint about  Loan 1.
I asked the adjudicator to ask Mr F if he had any comments about my proposed  decision  
regarding Loan  1. Mr F said he had nothing to add.
Otherwise I note that Sunny said that it didnt have any material  comments to make  about 
the outcome in my decision.  So I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions I reached  in 
my provisional decision about  Loans  9 to 19.
I also note Sunnys comments about not granting Mr F more  than 50% of his monthly 
income. I can see that Sunny didn t lend Mr F more than 50% of the monthly  income hed 
declared to Sunny. But I can see from the bank statements provided by Mr F that for 
example, with regard  to Loan 9 where it appears  Mr F had no monthly income, that his loan 
was more than 50% of his monthly income.
So, Im upholding  this complaint in part and Sunny should put things right as shown below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, to:-
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr F paid on Loans 9 to 19 and pay interest of 
8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
2.Remove adverse  entries about Loans 9 and 10 from Mr Fs credit  file; and
3.Remove all entries about Loans 11 to 19 from Mr Fs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it was taken off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN18924739Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1892473