K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold her a fee-paying 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). Mrs B says that she was led to believe that she 
had to upgrade  her account to get an overdraft.
background
Mrs Bs account history is:
Opened as a fee-free  account on 14 August 2010
Upgraded to an URCA on 21 February 2011
Downgraded to a fee-free Reward  account  on 27 February  2017
Closed on 23 January 2018
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  that the URCA had been 
mis-sold. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  assessment,  and asked for her complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to decide what to do about  Mrs Bs complaint. 
I know this is going  to come as a disappointment  to Mrs B, but after giving this case  a lot of 
thought, I currently  dont think the account  was mis-sold to her. I know  this isnt the outcome 
that she was hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help her to understand how I 
have come to this conclusion. 
Mrs B says that Halifax told her she had to get the URCA  so that she could get an overdraft. 
But Halifax  has sent us evidence to show that Mrs B originally  opened a fee-free  account  
with Halifax in August  2010  and this account  had an overdraft facility on it. 
According to Halifaxs records,  Mrs Bs fee-free account already had a £100 overdraft facility 
in place, at the point  that it was upgraded to an URCA in February  2011.  Mrs B has said that 
she was told to get the URCA to get a larger overdraft. But the size of the agreed overdraft 
limit stayed the same when Mrs Bs account  was upgraded to an URCA. Because of this I 
think that Mrs B was aware that she could get an overdraft on a fee-free account and that 
she chose to upgrade  to the URCA,  knowing she didnt have to have it. 
Looking at what both parties have said, I cant see that Halifax  made  a personal 
recommendation to Mrs B to take out the URCA, based on her circumstances at the time. 
But Halifax  was still required to give Mrs B enough important information about the account, 
so that she could decide for herself  whether it met her needs.
Ref: DRN11558852Its clear that Halifax gave Mrs B some  information about the URCA and the benefits  it 
provided, when  it was sold to her. For example, Mrs B knew that she had to register  mobile 
phones for them to be covered by the mobile phone insurance provided by the URCA. And I 
can see that Mrs B registered phones  in May 2011, November 2011, April 2012  and August 
2015. And Mrs B used  the breakdown cover on 9 occasions between  July 2012  and June 
2016  so its apparent that shed  also been given information about who to contact in the 
event of a breakdown too. 
At the time,  Halifax charged £1 for every day that an account holder used a planned 
overdraft on a fee-free  account up to £2,500. Whereas the URCA offered, amongst other 
benefits, an interest and fee-free overdraft facility of up to £300 (subject to approval by 
Halifax), in return for a £12.50 monthly fee. And as Mrs B recalls discussing her overdraft 
around the time that her account changed to an URCA, its possible that Mrs Bs 
recollections relate to being informed about  this account benefit.  
Mrs B says that she was aware of the monthly  fee and the account benefits, but didnt 
realise the two were  linked and thought the fee was to have an overdraft. But the overdraft 
limit didnt change  and the only thing  that did change when she agreed to the URCA was 
that benefits were  added to her account.  So given that Mrs B wasnt  paying a monthly 
account fee or receiving benefits  before the upgrade, I think  it wouldve been  reasonably  
obvious that the two were linked - particularly as Halifax says Mrs B wouldve been 
presented with sales documentation that set out the monthly fee and the associated  URCA 
benefits.  
However, I accept its possible that Halifax may not have told Mrs B everything about the 
packaged bank  account and the associated benefits. But I havent seen anything specific 
about her circumstances at the time that makes me think she wouldve been put off from 
taking out the URCA, had she been given more information about it.
Mrs B has said that because she was suffering from health issues between 2011 and 2017,  
this affected her understanding of what she was agreeing to. Im sorry to hear about Mrs Bs 
circumstances and I have  thought carefully about  what  she has told us. But given the extent 
that Mrs B engaged  with the various  URCA benefits  from the outset, Im satisfied that 
Mrs B, in all likelihood,  was aware of what she was agreeing to.
So taking everything into account, I dont think Halifax  mis-sold  the URCA to Mrs B. Because 
of this, I dont think it would be appropriate  to require Halifax  to refund  the URCA account 
fees, as Mrs B has asked  it do.
Ref: DRN11558853my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1155885