K820x#14complaint
Ms A has complained Citibank Europe  plc wont refund her £382.91  for a payment she made 
in May 2018.  She never received any service  for the payment.
background
Ms A had been  alerted  by a friend to someone providing a micro-blading course which  she 
was interested  in doing. She got in touch  with the course provider over WhatsApp and was 
told she needed to send $500  to an overseas  bank.  Ms A logged  onto her Citibank account 
and made  a foreign transfer for this amount.
Very shortly after confirming shed made  the payment, Ms A realised  she wasnt getting  any 
further response from the supposed course provider. She realised she must have been 
scammed. She got in touch with Citibank to explain what  happened.
Unfortunately Citibank didnt deal with her initial complaint well. Ms A thought  she was going  
to get her money  back.  After nearly two months, Citibank confirmed theyd done all they 
could to get her money back but hadnt  been able to do this. They  recognised their customer 
service hadnt been what  it should  have been. They offered  her £50 in compensation.
Ms A was unhappy  with this outcome. She believed this payment  had been  out of character 
and Citibank should have done more to help. She brought her complaint to the ombudsman  
service.
Our investigator considered what had happened. There  was no dispute  Ms A had made the 
payment herself.  The issue was whether  Citibank  should have realised something may have 
been wrong. Overall  she thought this was unlikely. She wasnt  going  to ask Citibank to do 
anything further.
Ms A remained unhappy. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons. Ill explain why.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These  primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise  payments  themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply  and Ive covered these off below. When we look at whether a bank 
has acted fairly in rejecting someones  fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is 
whether the customer  made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If they 
did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund  them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transaction, as well 
as what Citibank and Ms A have told us.
Ref: DRN18927222I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transaction was made  
were covered in our investigators  view of 27 March 2020. I dont intend to repeat everything 
that was said there. I will, of course,  refer to those aspects which  form the basis  of my 
decision. I can reassure  Ms A and Citibank Ive read the file thoroughly  and considered all 
the issues. 
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
The first issue is around authorisation. Its fair to say theres no real dispute here.  
Everybody accepts  Ms A made  and authorised  the payment. She logged onto her 
online banking service  and made  the transfer herself.
Under the PSRs  this would immediately suggest  as Ms A had authorised the 
transaction; there would be no basis to ask Citibank to refund her. However I am also 
taking other guidance,  standards  and best practice into account when thinking 
whether Citibank should have done  more.
Ms A told us she called Citibank  about  how to make a foreign payment but Citibank 
has no records of this call. That fact alone doesnt mean Ms A didnt call.
I cant know for sure whether Ms A called Citibank or not. However I feel if she had 
and mentioned she was making a payment to someone shed didnt know,  then 
perhaps it would have been  good  practice for Citibank to have warned her about 
making payments  in this way to an unknown  party. There would always  be a limited 
chance for them to get any money  back.
I dont doubt  Ms A was scammed but I dont think theres enough evidence to say 
Citibank should  have done  more.  Firstly  Im not convinced Ms A called them so they 
had little chance to warn  her of any consequences.
Ive also considered whether Citibank should have identified this payment  as 
unusual. That May, there were  at least four large-value payments into Ms As 
Citibank account.  I can also see she set up arrangements  to make payments  some 
large-value  to people she hadnt  paid before.  This disputed  payment wasnt high-
value compared  to some of the other transfers  and payments Ms A made that month.
Its also true that this disputed payment was a one-off  payment.  It wasnt  part of a 
series of payments  where I might have  expected  Citibank  to pick up on any pattern.  
So overall I dont  think Id expect Citibank to have picked this payment up as unusual.
Ive also reviewed what  Citibank  did when Ms A first got in touch with them.
Its true they gave  her incorrect information  and took some time to confirm to her 
what was really  going on. Theyve offered her £50 for this lack of customer  service 
and overall I believe  this is fair.  I understand this offer remains  open to Ms A to 
accept.
I know Citibank approached the foreign bank to see whether they could reclaim the 
funds for Ms A. This proved impossible  as the beneficiary had moved the funds on so 
there were no funds  left to reclaim.  Im sure Ms A thinks  if Citibank had moved  
quicker to sort this out, she may have got her funds back. I dont  think  this is the 
case. This could be the case within the UK where there  are industry  rules  on 
reclaiming funds  from other UK banks but those rules dont apply to foreign  
payments. So I dont  believe  any earlier action by Citibank would have made  any 
difference.
I appreciate Ms A is out of pocket. Shes paid for something which  she didnt  receive. And I 
agree shes  been  scammed.  However I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask 
Citibank to repay her.
Ref: DRN18927223my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms As complaint against 
Citibank Europe  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1892722