K821x#15Complaint
Miss Cs unhappy with how Covea Insurance plc dealt with a claim she made on a pet 
insurance policy.
Background 
After speaking to Covea on two occasions in January 2019, Miss C went ahead  with her 
pets surgery  at an initial cost of £1,060.44. Covea paid the claim, subject to the £1,000 
policy limit. I gather further vet fees were incurred subsequently. However,  because  of a 
previous claim Covea had paid,  totalling £119.44, the policy  limit meant Miss C was left to 
cover the shortfall.    
Miss C complained that, during  the two calls she made to Covea prior to the surgery,  it had 
led her to believe the claim would be paid in full. She asked that Covea apologise for its error 
and allow  her to retrospectively  upgrade the policy  to one with an increased  policy  limit so 
the claim could be covered more fully.
Covea didnt uphold  the complaint, so Miss C came to us.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld.  He was 
persuaded that Miss C was mis-led regarding the policy limit during the second  call. He was 
satisfied Miss C would  otherwise have delayed her claim until the policy  was renewed  in May 
2019 when the full policy limit would have become available once again. He effectively said 
Covea should  deal with the claim as though thats what she did.
Covea didnt agree  with the investigators findings,  so the case  was passed  to me to review 
afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point  for me was what Miss Cs policy terms  were. From the documentation 
Covea sent her when  she bought the cover in May 2018, I can see that the limit for vet fees 
was £1,000 per policy year. And I gather Miss C would have chosen that limit, which  was the 
lowest of the options  made available to her. The premium was set accordingly.
So, purely according to the strict policy terms, it seems Covea was entitled  to limit the claim 
as it did.
Having said that, Ive listened very carefully  to the calls Miss C made  to Covea in January 
2019. I think the crucial  call is the second one, made just prior to the surgery.  In that call, 
Miss C asked the adviser, simply,  what fees shed be liable for. The adviser  mentioned the 
excess payable if the claim  was successful but said she shouldnt have to pay any more  than 
that.
I appreciate the adviser wouldnt be able to go through all the policy  features with Miss C  
and that this likely wasnt what Miss C wanted  the adviser to do. But, given the nature of the 
Ref: DRN16130472query, I think  it ought to have been clear to the adviser that Miss C wasnt  sure how the 
policy would operate, especially with regard  to what shed have to pay and what  level of 
benefit the cover would provide. I think the adviser  was right to pick up on the excess 
payable but also that she should have gone  further and at least referred to the policy  limit. 
This might have prompted Miss C to enquire further on the matter.
This, in itself, wouldnt be enough  for me to make an award for financial loss. Id also need to 
be satisfied Coveas actions impacted  on Miss Cs actions  to the extent  that she suffered a 
financial loss as a result. 
Having looked  at what both parties  have said, Im satisfied on balance  that Miss C did suffer  
a loss as a result. I say that because I believe shed have deferred  the surgery  until the start 
of the new policy year in May 2019  when  shed have had access to the full policy  limit. I take 
Coveas point that the nature and severity of her pets  condition meant the surgery  needed to 
be undertaken immediately, but I havent  seen any clinical evidence  to indicate it couldnt  
reasonably have been delayed by the length  of time in question.  
Importantly, in my view, Miss Cs provided  evidence to show shes  been  unable to meet the 
shortfall in vet fees herself. Shes now being  pursued through court action.  I believe  its likely 
the cost of the treatment would have been a major factor in her decision as to whether to 
proceed with surgery  as advised or to delay  until the start of the new policy year.
Covea says the policy wasnt intended to be used to defer treatment in such a way but Im 
not aware of any policy terms that would have prevented Miss C from taking that course of 
action. In the circumstances, and while of course  I cant be certain, I think  thats  probably  
what shed have done. 
So, I believe  Covea should put things right for Miss C on the basis shed have delayed  
treatment until after the policy  renewal in May 2019. That means dealing  with the claim as 
though it had been made at that stage, albeit in line with what  the policy  terms would 
otherwise have been at the time. For example, Covea can take into account  the likely policy 
excess, policy limit and premium that would have applied in making  any claim payment.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold Miss Cs complaint. I require Covea Insurance 
plc to assess Miss Cs claim as though she deferred her pets treatment until after the policy 
renewal in May 2019. It should do so in line with the policy  terms that likely would have 
applied and, for example, its entitled to deduct  the equivalent of Miss Cs likely renewal 
premium from any claim payment. It can also deduct any payments already made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1613047