K822xcomplaint
Mrs E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed  a payment from her current  account to 
her childrens savings account.  She additionally complains that the bank continued taking 
mortgage payments  after that had been repaid.
background 
During a visit to a Barclays  branch on 11 September 2018, Mrs E said she was told that a 
transfer of £3,000 she had made  from her current account to a childrens savings  account  on 
25 August was still pending. Mrs E visited the branch a few days  later and this time 
discovered that for some months Barclays had continued to collect a standing order of 
£37.50 from her account towards a mortgage  that she had paid in full.
Mrs E complained to Barclays  about  both of these  matters. The bank  replied explaining that 
Mrs E had made the transfer on Saturday  25 August and that Monday 27 August was a bank 
holiday. Barclays said the payment was therefore credited to the childrens saving account 
on the next working day  28 August  and that this was in line with its terms and conditions.
With respect to the mortgage payment, the bank  explained  that Mrs Es mortgage had 
matured in November  2017 when she should have paid it in full. She was unable to do so 
and so Barclays agreed to allow her to set up a standing order to cover the monthly interest 
payment until such time as she could repay  the mortgage. Mrs E repaid her mortgage in 
February 2018 and should then have cancelled her standing order as Barclays  didnt have 
the authority to do so. But Mrs E didnt cancel  it and so the bank continued to collect  the 
standing order. But the payment bounced back and was therefore re-credited to Mrs Es 
account on each  occasion. Barclays offered to pay Mrs E £100 for the inconvenience  shed 
been caused.
Mrs E was dissatisfied with the banks response  saying  she considered the amount  offered 
to be too low. And so she brought her complaint to us.
Having looked  at the information from Mrs E and Barclays  our investigators view was that 
the sum offered in compensation  by Barclays was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In summary  she didnt consider that there had been  any delay in the £3,000 transfer. And 
although there had clearly  been some confusion  about cancelling  the standing  order, our 
investigator considered  £100 to be fair recognition  of the inconvenience this had caused  
Mrs E.
Mrs E remained dissatisfied and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In doing so she 
emphasised the time shed spent trying  to sort out what  had happened, often during her 
lunch breaks. And she continued to doubt when the 25 August transfer had in fact been 
actioned providing  statements  from her childrens savings account showing a £3000  credit 
on 19 October.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN19920982I should say at the outset that I know Mrs E has raised a number of complaints  about various 
products and services  shes received from Barclays, but in this decision I am looking only at 
those matters set out in the complaint section of this report. 
Mrs E complains that a transfer she made on 25 August wasnt  processed  by Barclays  in a 
timely manner, and in fact was still showing as pending on a cashiers screen when  Mrs E 
visited a branch on 11 September.
I have looked  at statements from that period for Mrs Es current account and childrens 
savings account  and these confirm that the transfer  was credited to the childrens account on 
the next working day, 28 August. There was therefore no delay.
Im afraid I cannot know what information was displayed on the cashiers screen on Mrs Es 
branch visit, but it certainly should not have reflected any delay in the transfer between the 
two accounts  as there wasnt one. In support of her case Mrs E has subsequently provided 
us with statements  from her childrens account  showing a £3000 credit on 19 October. But 
Barclays has told us that reflects another transfer  Mrs E made on that day from her current  
account, as she did again on 25 October. It has also supplied us with copies of her account 
statements that confirm  these dates and transfers.  In summary therefore I do not find that 
Barclays delayed transferring money  from one of Mrs Es accounts to another.  
With respect to Barclays continuing  to collect standing  order payments for some  months  
after Mrs E had repaid  her mortgage, I agree with Mrs E that this shouldnt  have happened. 
And although Barclays is correct in saying that without an instruction from Mrs E it couldnt 
cancel her standing  order I wouldve expected  the bank to have made  the position clear  to 
Mrs E at the time she paid off her mortgage.
I have looked  at the consequences for Mrs E of the continued collection of her standing  
order. Fortunately there was no adverse financial impact on her because the standing order 
payment bounced  with the result that it was re-credited  to her account. But I accept that the 
continued existence of the standing order plainly came as a shock to Mrs E when she was 
finally told about it despite the fact that it had continued to appear  on her account  statements 
throughout. And Mrs E was put to some inconvenience  in trying to resolve  matters.  But 
having taken all of that into consideration, my judgment is that Barclays  offer of £100 is fair 
and reasonable compensation.
I leave it to Mrs E to contact Barclays if she now wishes  to accept its offer of £100.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1992098