K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr L complain that Wesleyan Assurance  Society wrongly advised them to take out 
an index-linked  joint whole of life policy to protect their £75,000 mortgage in 2003. This was 
not even in principle suitable as a mortgage repayment policy; and in fact they already had 
sufficient cover in place.
background
Wesleyan accepted that a whole of life policy was not a suitable  recommendation but 
considered they did need  full joint cover for their £75,000 mortgage and so offered 
compensation based on a comparison of what a 16 year term assurance policy (with a mix of 
level term and decreasing term cover) would have  cost instead.
Mr and Mrs L did not agree and brought their complaint to this service.
An investigator at this service did not feel Wesleyans  offer was fair as it failed to take 
account of Mr and Mrs Ls existing cover. This included a joint policy with £47,000 of level 
term cover, payable on first death,  and a level term policy with £70,000 policy in Mrs Ls 
name only. On top of this Mrs L, as a teacher, had generous cover  via her employer, 
including death-in-service payment and a 50% pension  to a surviving spouse.
She therefore felt Mrs L had sufficient mortgage  cover and broader family protection.
 
Mrs and Mr Ls mortgage was for £55,000 on a repayment basis and £20,000  on an interest-
only basis. But the investigator felt that a decreasing term policy  for £75,000 in Mr Ls name 
only would  have been sufficient given the joint whole of life policy already in place.
Wesleyan should  therefore pay Mrs and Mr L compensation  of D + E, where:
A = the total premiums  paid on the whole of life policy, less the cost of a competitively priced 
decreasing term assurance with critical illness on the life of Mr L only based on his 
circumstances at the time of the advice;
B = interest on each  premium difference, calculated from the date it was paid until the date 
of surrender;
C = the surrender proceeds;
D = A + B  C;
E = interest of 8% simple  per annum on D, calculated  from the date of surrender until the 
date of payment  by the business.
Wesleyan did not agree, and said:
Mrs Ls term assurance plan was taken out for family  protection  and not because of 
the mortgage. If used  to cover the mortgage  this would leave a gap in family  
protection. They have two children who were two and six at the time.  If Mrs L had 
died her husbands income  would not have been  enough  to support them
Ref: DRN12886292It does also not believe their joint whole of life policy should have been  used to 
protect a decreasing  and time-specific borrowing such  as a mortgage
Any employee benefits disappear if a person changes  job; so again  are not suitable 
for mortgage protection
Mrs L was the main breadwinner so any lump sum payment would have been 
needed to help Mr L support the family
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons.
Firstly, Wesleyan accepts this was not an acceptable recommendation. There is no evidence  
to justify the recommendation its advisor made  which  appears  to fly in the face of Mr and 
Mrs Ls circumstances and objectives.
Given this, my role is to decide  what would have been a more appropriate recommendation 
or possible recommendations, and what  on balance  Mr and Mrs L would probably have 
chosen if presented  with a number of potentially suitable recommendations.
So while I dont dispute that it may have been  reasonable to explore various  levels and 
forms of cover including  a joint policy for the entire mortgage debt, I have also considered  
what Mr and Mrs L might, on balance, have chosen  if the advisor had fully explored  their 
financial situation, existing  policies, priorities and objectives. There  is no evidence to suggest 
he did this.
In the event of Mrs Ls death, Mr L would have received  £117,000  from the two existing 
policies plus a widowers pension equal to around £700 a month along with the child benefit 
currently paid to Mrs L. It is not stated whether he would have also received a lump sum 
from her teachers pension scheme  but this is, in my experience,  possible if not likely.
I also note that Mrs L was not the main breadwinner, as Wesleyan alleged,  the difference  
between their take-home salaries  being quite small and in the event of her death  Mr L would 
have received the child allowance. Looking at their recorded income and expenditure figures  
this suggests  there would have only been a smallish  drop in total household  income,  and no 
drop at all if the mortgage was paid off. If Mr L chose to do this then he would still have 
£42,000 left over.
In other  words, with no actual fall in household income the familys net assets would 
increase by £42,000. If the advisor  had fully explored the financial implications of Mrs Ls 
death, including drilling down into these  figures,  I think it is unlikely  on the balance  of 
probabilities, that they would have chosen to take out more cover  in Mrs Ls name. I think  it 
is more likely they would have decided they already  had sufficient cover in the event  of her 
death.
I acknowledge that employee benefits cannot  be guaranteed and are not generally 
considered sufficient as protection  for a debt like a mortgage.  But in some  professions, such  
Ref: DRN12886293as teaching, it is unlikely that such a benefit would  be withdrawn and it is quite likely that 
someone will continue in the same profession even if/when they move jobs.
In this case I am not saying the advisor  should have  taken  account of Mrs Ls death-in-
service benefits for the specific mortgage  debt;  rather that he should have factored it into the 
overall cover that Mr and Mrs L had at the time when considering their situation  and fully 
setting out their existing  provision and the reasonable options  they should  consider.
By contrast,  Mr L did not have any employee benefits so in the event of his death  Mrs L 
would not receive  any ongoing income.  So the £47,000 pay-out  from their joint policy may 
well have been partially needed to supplement  the reduced family income. So in theory  a 
sole life term policy with a mix of level and decreasing  term cover  would not have been an 
unreasonable recommendation.
But, equally,  I am satisfied that a single decreasing term policy of £75,000 would also have  
been a reasonable recommendation given their overall circumstances.  While  the potential  
pay-out would have  reduced at a faster rate than their remaining mortgage (given £20,000 of 
it was interest-only), this would have happened slowly and even after 15 years the shortfall 
would have been less than half the amount on offer via their joint £47,000 policy.
So I think it would not have been necessary to recommend  two separate  policies, with the 
added costs therein,  to protect this modest shortfall.
I therefore believe it would have been  appropriate to recommend  a single decreasing  term 
policy in Mr Ls name  to cover the mortgage  size and duration.
Wesleyan should  therefore pay compensation on the basis  that Mr and Mrs L would, if 
properly and fully advised, have chosen  to take out a single decreasing  term policy with an 
initial sum assured  of £75,000 in Mr Ls name only. 
It must therefore compare  the cost of the premiums they paid with those they would have 
paid via such a policy, and refund the differences. In doing so they need to take account of 
the surrender  sum (as none would have accrued  under  a decreasing  term policy)  but also 
add 8% simple interest.
In doing this it should follow the formula set out by the investigator.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Wesleyan  Assurance Society to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1288629