K820x#14complaint
G Ltd complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to help when its director, 
Mr S, fell victim to a scam. G Ltd feels Barclays should have acted more quickly  to recover  
the money from the scammer.
Mr S is representing G Ltd. So to keep things simple, Ill refer to Mr S throughout this 
decision.
background
On 16 May 2018 Mr S made  a payment  of £2200 from G Ltds  business account to another  
company. He thought he was making  a payment for training  which would allow  G Ltd to take 
on a contract with this company. Unfortunately, it later transpired  that Mr S was dealing  with 
a scammer.
On 29 May 2018 Mr S contacted  Barclays  to tell them he had concerns about the company 
he had paid, but wasnt yet certain  whether he had been scammed  or not. On 6 June  2018  
Mr S contacted Barclays again to say that he was now certain he had been the victim of a 
scam and to ask them to help him get his money  back. The scammers bank account was 
also held with Barclays, so they checked  to see if any of Mr Ss money was available  to be 
returned, but unfortunately by that stage all of Mr Ss money had been withdrawn by the 
scammer. But it took Barclays two months to properly update Mr S on what  had happened to 
his money, much longer than it should  have taken, so Barclays paid Mr S £50 to recognise 
the impact of that delay. 
Mr S was unhappy with how Barclays handled things, so he referred his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at what had happened, he explained to Mr S that he felt 
Barclays had done all they could to try and help, and that the £50 they had paid seemed to 
be fair compensation for the delay in keeping Mr S updated, so he didnt think  they needed 
to do anything more.
Mr S disagreed; he thinks Barclays could have  got back some or all of his money if they had 
acted more quickly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Id like to start by saying  how sorry I am to hear that Mr S has been a victim of this scam. I 
appreciate that this kind of fraud  can have  a huge  impact, and will have  been  very frustrating 
and upsetting for him. But having  though  very carefully about whats  happened here, I think 
Barclays did act fairly  and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave Mr Ss account. And I 
think it took appropriate steps to try and recover the funds. I know  this will be very 
disappointing for Mr S, but with this in mind, I dont think I can fairly  say Barclays  should  
reimburse Mr S with the £2200 G Ltd lost. Ill explain why in more detail.
Ref: DRN12220472In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  When Mr S 
made the payment, he didnt know he was dealing with a scammer,  so he sent the money in 
good faith. This means that  at the time  he wanted the payment to go ahead and 
authorised it to be made.  And I have  taken that into account when deciding what  is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
And a banks responsibility to make additional  checks is particularly important in light of the 
environment created by the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent years - 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In this case, I needed to decide whether Barclays acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mr S when he made the payment of £2200, or whether  it should  have done more than it 
did.
But having  thought carefully about  how Mr S used his account I dont think  there  was 
anything sufficiently suspicious  or unusual about the payment that would have suggested  to 
Barclays that Mr S was being  scammed. The amount and type of payment that Mr S made 
wasnt out of character for his business  account  nor was there anything about  the payment 
Ref: DRN12220473that would  have indicated to Barclays that it wasnt legitimate. And on that basis,  I dont  think  
Barclays did anything wrong by following the instructions  Mr S gave and sending the money.
I also note, from what  Mr S has told us, that this appears to have been a very convincing  
scam. Mr S has said he was provided with online training, job sheets, and an invoice. He has 
also said there was a website for the company and that he found  details of the company he 
thought he was dealing with on the Companies House website. Given  the amount of 
information and evidence that the scammers appear  to have provided to Mr S to convince  
him this was a legitimate opportunity, Im not convinced that even if Barclays  had called and 
spoken to Mr S about the payment he was making they would have been able to identify that 
this was a scam. 
Mr S has told us he thinks he contacted  Barclays within  a day of making  the payment to 
discuss his concerns. But weve got Barclays notes  of the contact theyve had with Mr S, 
and it seems that the first time Mr S spoke to Barclays about this payment was on 29 May 
2018; nearly two weeks after the payment had been  made to the scammers. At that stage, 
Mr S said he still wasnt sure whether  the company he was dealing  with was legitimate or 
not.
Mr S contacted Barclays again on 6 June 2018  to say he was now certain that he had been 
scammed. Barclays took steps to investigate the account Mr S had paid the money  to, but 
unfortunately discovered that all of Mr Ss money had already been withdrawn. 
I appreciate that Barclays took quite some time to tell Mr S that they wouldnt be able to get 
back any of his money, but I dont think that means they didnt do a proper  investigation. And 
even if this payment  had been flagged as a scam  when Mr S first contacted Barclays on     
29 May 2018, that wouldnt  have made  a difference to the eventual  outcome. This is 
because Barclays records show that all of Mr Ss money had been withdrawn from the 
scammers account by the end of the day on 17 May 2018. 
Mr S says hes been told that there  were  other  fraudulent claims  about  the same  account 
that he made the payment  to. However, these  claims  appear to have been after Mr S raised  
his concerns and the situation  unfolded. I need  to consider here what  happened at the time 
of sending the payment, and I havent  seen any evidence  that Barclays  had reason not to 
make the payment at the time.
Its very unfortunate  that Mr S has lost out, and I have huge sympathy for what  hes been 
through. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that Barclays should have 
done more to prevent Mr S losing his money. I cant hold Barclays  responsible  for Mr S 
having fallen victim to a scam, and I think they did all they could to help him once they knew  
what had happened. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays  to compensate Mr S for 
his loss. 
I acknowledge that Barclays could have done more to keep Mr S updated.  But I think that 
the £50 Barclays  has already paid to Mr S for those delays is appropriate in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  Barclays needs to pay anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S  on behalf of 
G Ltd - to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Ref: DRN12220474Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1222047