K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund to her the money that she paid for 
some drawers.
background
Mrs D made  a payment  of £94.95  from her bank account with Santander,  using a payment 
services provider, to pay for some  drawers in September 2018. She says that the drawers  
werent described properly, that the box was damaged when it was delivered and that the 
drawers were  defective  so she had to glue some of the parts  together.  She says that the 
seller wouldnt accept  the drawers back so she complained to the payment services provider 
which said that she should complain to her bank. 
She complained to Santander and it asked  her to provide it with any information from the 
seller to show that it wouldnt accept the drawers back. But it paid her £50 compensation as 
a gesture of goodwill.  She didnt provide it with the information that it had requested  and 
complained to this service. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that 
Santander had followed the guidelines for chargeback and he was satisfied that it hadnt  
done anything  wrong. He said that it had asked her for relevant information  about the 
complaint which  she hadnt provided.  So he felt that its offer of £50 as a gesture of goodwill 
for the service received  was fair and reasonable.
Mrs D has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D made  a payment  of £94.95  from her Santander current  account  in September  2018  
for some drawers. There were a number of issues with the drawer so she contacted  the 
seller. The seller had advertised  that the drawers could be returned within 30 days but that 
the buyer would  pay the postage. But it also said that it wouldnt accept  the return of 
assembled products.  
Santander says that the seller had agreed to arrange for the goods to be collected  but 
Mrs D didnt return them because theyd been assembled. She complained to Santander and 
asked it to refund the payment to her account  which it could do by way of a chargeback.
Theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. But if the right 
to make a chargeback  claim  exists under the applicable scheme  rules   and if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to be good  practice for a chargeback  claim to 
be made.
Santander says that it couldve made a chargeback on the basis  that the drawers werent as 
described or were defective. But it says that for a chargeback to be made  on that basis  the 
drawers wouldve had to be returned  to the seller. And it says that Mrs D still has the 
drawers. Its asked her to provide information  to show  that the seller wont  accept the return  
Ref: DRN17169812of the drawers. And Mrs D says that the order form says that the drawers cant be returned if 
theyve been assembled.
I can understand Mrs Ds frustration about the issues that shes described with the drawers.  
But the seller  has said that they can be returned  (even though theyve been assembled) and 
Mrs D hasnt returned them. Santander has asked her for information to show that the seller 
has said that they cant be returned but she hasnt provided it with that information.
Santander has paid £50 to Mrs D as a gesture of goodwill. And Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that its acted incorrectly in these circumstances. So I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  for me to require it to refund to Mrs D the £94.95 that 
she paid for the drawers  or to take any other action  in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1716981