K822xcomplaint
C, a community interest  company, complains about the time taken by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to open a business bank account.  It asks for compensation. All of Cs directors have 
been involved with the complaint. They say the £200  compensation offered by Barclays  isnt 
enough.
background 
C applied to open an account in December 2017.  Its directors say they were told it would 
take two weeks. The account was opened  in June 2018. The directors  say without  a bank 
account they were  unable  to apply for grant  awards,  lost the premises  they wanted to lease  
and lost the support of volunteers. They say the directors spent time and donated money  
which is now wasted. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He said Barclays was 
responsible for some  of the delays. But he couldnt  be sure that C would have been 
successful in securing  grant funds or the premises it wanted  if the account  had been opened 
sooner. The investigator  said Barclays should pay compensation  of £350 for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Barclays agreed. C didnt  agree. Its directors said the delays in opening the bank account  
meant they missed out on grant funding.  And by the time they were in a position to confirm 
the lease on the premises they wanted  there was a rival bid which the local authority 
landlord had to consider. They also ask that the time spent by the directors  is considered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Cs directors met with Barclays in December 2017 to open an account.  Barclays  says they 
didnt have all of the necessary information  and documents with them and these  were  
provided in January and February  2018.
Barclays then asked  for further information.  It says this was provided in March  2018. In April 
2018, one of the directors was asked to re-submit  a form which Barclays  said was out of 
date and incorrectly completed. The relationship manager went  on sick leave and this 
caused further delays. The account  was opened on 26 June 2018.
did Barclays make  an error or act unreasonably?
Not all of the delays here were due to errors by Barclays. It was prompted to ask for more  
information by the results  of its credit search. And the names  of one of the directors  
appeared differently at Companies  House and on the identification  documents  she provided.  
Barclays was unable  to open an electronic file provided by the directors.  And it says a 
Ref: DRN11593752document wasnt provided in the format  it required. Barclays says it didnt receive  everything  
it needed until March  2018.
The directors say Barclays could have been more flexible when dealing  with issues  relating 
to the names  of one of the directors. I understand their frustration abut this. But I think  
Barclays is entitled to ask for information and supporting  evidence  as part of its account 
opening process. I dont  think Barclays requests for information or for documents  to be 
provided in a specific format were  unreasonable.
However, Barclays realised in April that one of the forms submitted by a director wasnt  
completed correctly. I think if it had checked the form sooner, it could have asked for it to be 
re-submitted sooner  and the delays  might have been reduced. Barclays  accepts that it 
should have told the directors in April 2018  that it needed one of the directors  to re-submit a 
form. Instead, it said that the account  would be opened with a week  or so. I can appreciate 
how frustrating it must  have been  for the directors when this didnt happen. Barclays accepts  
that the absence of the relationship manager added to the time taken  to open the account.
It took about six months from the first meeting  to the account  being opened. Barclays  
received the documents  it requested in March and was entitled to a reasonable amount of 
time to process them. Overall, I think its reasonable to say that the account could have been 
opened about two months  earlier if Barclays hadnt  made any errors. 
what compensation is fair and reasonable?
Cs directors say that C was unable to apply  for grant funding until the bank account was 
opened. They say that C lost grant funding as some  of the bodies they applied to had less 
funds available  by the time the account  was opened.
When C first applied  for the account, it was in the early stages of applying for a lease on 
premises. C incurred costs relating to this. The directors  say C couldnt complete the 
process until it had grant funding  which it couldnt  apply for until it had a bank account. By 
the time it could apply  to lease the premises there  was a rival bid and C lost the premises.  
The directors say C would  have  had a better chance  to secure funding and the premises  it 
wanted if the account had been  opened sooner.  While  I understand the point they make,  I 
cant be certain that they would have secured more funding and their preferred premises if 
there hadnt been delays  opening the account. There could be various reasons why grants 
might not be awarded,  or might not be available at a particular time. And there was no 
guarantee C would secure the premises it wanted  and the directors would have  known this 
when they incurred costs. 
I do understand how difficult it is for the directors to provide  evidence  that grants  would have 
been awarded if the account had been  opened  sooner  and that they were  no longer 
available as a result of the delays. But without this, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Barclays to pay compensation  for the grant  money C was unable to apply for or costs 
related to the premises. 
The directors say that C receives help on a pro bono  basis and has support from volunteers 
and this was affected by the delays. But I cant see that this caused a financial loss. 
Nonetheless, the directors were caused  inconvenience and C can be compensated for this. 
There was some inconvenience related to providing the information and documents which  I 
Ref: DRN11593753think Barclays was entitled  to ask for  this is a necessary part of applying for an account. 
But some of the inconvenience  could  have been  avoided. Its hard to come up with an 
amount that seems  fair to both parties.  But having considered what the parties have said, I 
think £350 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £350 to C 
(less the £200  offered  by Barclays if this has already been paid). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1159375