K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mr O complained  about Lloyds Bank PLC. They are unhappy about two separate  
mortgage issues:
-their request to transfer (port) their existing  mortgage; and
-the fact that Lloyds  reported unpaid mortgage  payments against their credit  files. 
Mr and Mrs O want  the default notices removed from their credit files. They also want Lloyds 
to pay compensation  for what they say was appalling service which resulted in stress, 
anxiety and inconvenience.
background
Mr and Mrs O have complained about two separate mortgage issues.
porting discussions  
From April 2017 onwards,  Mr and Mrs O asked Lloyds about porting  options. They  wanted  to 
discuss porting the interest rate on their existing buy to let mortgage, to a new buy to let 
mortgage for a new property they were considering buying. 
There were problems with the banks response to Mr and Mrs Os enquiries.  There were  
multiple calls over the next year, and Mr and Mrs O made a series  of complaints about 
service, phone calls, and correspondence.  The bank accepted  some  parts  of Mr and Mrs Os 
complaint. In total it paid them £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
credit file markers
On 20 December 2017, Lloyds issued a redemption statement which  Mr and Mrs O had 
requested for their buy to let mortgage.  This said:
 
The amount  needed to repay your mortgage on 22/12/2017 is and gave figures. 
Notes after the figures said 
Includes interest due to 22/12/2017 and
Assumes that no further payments will be received, so any made after the date of this 
statement will not have been  taken into account.  Please do not cancel your direct debit or 
standing order arrangements. See the Important  Information  Monthly  Payments 
section at the end of this letter  for further details. The last two sentences were in bold 
type as Ive set out.
The Important Information   Monthly Payments  section  referred  to said Please do not 
amend any standing order arrangement.
The mortgage wasnt redeemed  on the date set out on the statement, 22 December. Mr and 
Mrs O were about to go abroad  until February.  They said that Mr O hand delivered a letter  to 
Lloyds offices  on 22 December, giving emergency  contact  details. Lloyds later said it 
couldnt trace this letter, but it accepted Mr Os statement that hed delivered  it.
Ref: DRN12763132Mr and Mrs O said they believed that the wording  on the December redemption  statement 
assumes that no further payments will be received meant that they wouldnt have to make  
any more payments. So they didnt ensure that the account from which  they paid the 
mortgage had enough money  to pay. Their mortgage went  into arrears.
Lloyds sent arrears letters to Mr and Mrs Os address on 2 January 2018 and 17 January, by 
which time Mr and Mrs Os account was £496.56  in arrears. Lloyds sent another  arrears 
letter on 24 January. From the end of January, direct debits began to be paid again. The 
bank sent a further arrears letter for the remaining arrears balance on 3 February and 24 
February. The bank  also registered markers against  Mr and Mrs Os credit files.
A further  redemption statement was issued  in February and Mr and Mrs O redeemed the 
mortgage on 27 February 2018.
In October, Mr and Mrs O complained about  the markers on their credit file. They  argued  
that once Lloyds had issued the 20 December 2017  redemption statement, which included 
the wording assumes no further payments would be received, their contractual  obligation 
to make monthly payments had been  varied.  They said that Lloyds had been aware that they 
planned to pay off the mortgage, and they also said that the letter Mr O had hand delivered  
on 22 December 2017 had given emergency  contact details. They believed their 
circumstances were  unique and they wanted  confirmation from Lloyds that it had removed 
the markers  it had wrongly registered on their complaint files.
Lloyds didnt agree  that it should remove the adverse credit  markers. It explained  that they 
were required  to make monthly mortgage payments until the mortgage  was fully redeemed.  
In line with regulatory requirements, it had to report any late or missed payments to credit  
reference agencies.  As it hadnt been  able to collect direct debits for December  or January, 
markers had correctly been  put on Mr and Mrs Os credit files.
Lloyds accepted that Mr O had delivered a letter on 22 December, even though  it didnt have 
a record of this. But it explained that it wouldnt have phoned  the emergency number Mr and 
Mrs O had said theyd provided, in order to tell them theyd missed  payments. And it had 
sent letters.
Mr and Mrs O werent satisfied and complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. He looked in detail at the service 
issues, and thought that Lloyds hadnt handled  the porting issue well. However, he noted  
that the bank had acknowledged this, and had made  two separate payments to Mr and Mrs 
O, totalling £400. He didnt think Lloyds  needed to do more.
The adjudicator also considered the credit file markers. He pointed  out that the December 
2018 redemption  statement  had made  it clear  that they shouldnt  cancel  direct  debit 
payments. It wasnt the banks policy to make calls when a payment was missed,  but to send 
letters. Although  Mr and Mrs O were  away, it was their responsibility to ensure that mortgage 
payments were maintained until the mortgage  was redeemed. So he believed  Lloyds had 
acted correctly when  putting marks on Mr and Mrs Os credit files.
Mr and Mrs O didnt accept this. They said that the adjudicator  had accepted that Lloyds 
hadnt handled the porting process  well, so the bank  shouldnt be allowed to get away  with 
such a shoddy  performance.  They said the issue was lack of service to long-term  customers. 
They also said that it was inconceivable  for Lloyds  to ignore the letter  which Mr O had hand  
Ref: DRN12763133delivered on 22 December, and to have written  to their UK address  when  they knew  Mr and 
Mrs O were away. In relation to the credit file markers, Mr and Mrs O said that the 
redemption statement had clearly  said that it assumed no further  payments would be 
received. They said they were  suffering  once  again  from the banks incompetence. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
porting discussions
Both sides agree that Lloyds didnt handle  Mr and Mrs Os porting requests  well. Ive 
therefore focused on what would be fair and reasonable compensation. I recognise that Mr 
O said, in his response to the adjudicators view, that it was the poor service, not money, 
which was the issue, especially  as they were  long-term customers. I understand Mr Os 
viewpoint, but Im not able to undo the poor service. I can only assess  whether the £400 
compensation paid by Lloyds was in line with what this service would generally expect for 
this sort of customer service failing.  I find that it was, and I dont require Lloyds to pay more 
compensation. 
credit file markers
I dont agree that the redemption statement dated 20 December absolved Mr and Mrs O 
from continuing to make their contractual monthly mortgage payments. The document 
clearly states, and the bank had put it in bold letters, Please  do not cancel your direct 
debit or standing order  arrangements.  This was repeated in the important information 
section. So I find that Lloyds made  it very clear that borrowers shouldnt  stop payments.
I accept that Mr and Mrs O hadnt actually cancelled their direct debit. But they hadnt 
ensured that there was enough money  in their account, so the direct debits bounced. It 
doesnt make any difference that the direct debits  bounced, rather  than were  cancelled. It 
was their responsibility to make sure payments continued.
I also find that the redemption statement makes it clear that the figures provided are only 
valid for redemption  on 22 December. Redemption figures are calculated to a specific date. I 
find that the reference to an assumption  that no further payment would be made, relates 
clearly to no further payments before the specific redemption date ie 22 December.  The 
document is only a snapshot of the account  for a redemption taking place on that date. 
I find that there was no justification for Mr and Mrs O to assume  they didnt have to make  
any further payments  when they didnt redeem the mortgage on that specific  date.
I also find that it made no difference that Mr and Mrs O had told Lloyds that they planned to 
redeem the mortgage. They didnt pay off the mortgage on the date stated on the 
redemption statement, so that snapshot picture at that date was no longer valid. Nor do I find 
that the bank had an obligation to phone Mr and Mrs O when its policy was to send  arrears  
letters. Whatever the circumstances of the 20 December letter which  Mr O said he delivered 
and the bank said it didnt have on file, it was Mr and Mrs Os responsibility to maintain their 
mortgage payments.  They  were  going  to be abroad  for a number of weeks, and I think the 
bank could reasonably expect that someone would be checking Mr and Mrs Os UK post for 
them over this extended period.
Ref: DRN12763134Lenders have an obligation  to ensure that they send  accurate information  to the credit 
reference agencies.  The information Lloyds recorded about Mr and Mrs Os credit record 
was accurate  they missed payment that they should have made.  So I do not require Lloyds 
to remove the credit  file markers from Mr or Mrs Os credit files. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1276313