K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the valuation One Insurance  Limited gave him when  his car was 
written off under his motor policy.
background
Mr Ws vehicle  was declared a total loss following  an accident. One Insurance offered Mr W 
a settlement of £11,600 less the policy excess. After discussions with Mr W, One Insurance 
increased its offer to £12,447.50  less the excess.
Mr W didnt agree the higher offer was enough and complained to One Insurance. One 
Insurance said it wouldnt increase the amount any further.
Mr W complained  to us. He told us the type of car he had was scarce and the adverts  he 
found for a similar car were around  £14,000 to £15,000. He wanted One Insurance  to 
increase the offer to reflect the adverts.  Mr W thought One Insurance should consider the 
market values of cars offered for sale to the public when deciding  the valuation for his car.
Our investigator checked the industry recognised guides and agreed One Insurances offer 
was reasonable.  He also said although  the policy says One Insurance  may look at the value 
of cars being  offered for sale to the general public  they dont have to.
Mr W was not happy with our investigators  view, so the matter has come to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to decide this case I must consider whether the pre-accident  value One Insurance  
has used to settle Mr Ws claim  is reasonable based on the policy terms.
Mr Ws policy says One Insurance 
will make a settlement payment based  on the cost of replacing your car at the time of the 
loss or damage, taking into account  its make, model, age, mileage and circumstances  of its 
purchase by you. 
It also says, the most  we will pay is the market value of your car at the time of loss or 
damage.
Market value is defined  in the policy as: 
The cost of replacing  your car, if this is possible,  with one of a similar make, model and 
specification, taking  into account the age, mileage and condition  of your car, immediately 
before the loss or damage happened.
In assessing the market  value of your vehicle,  we may refer to insurance industry  recognised 
guides of vehicle values as well as searching  for available vehicles being offered for sale to 
the general public: 
Ref: DRN14338162The recognised industry  approach to assessing a fair pre-accident market value takes into 
account what the guides say the market value is. This is also our approach when looking at 
disputes involving  vehicle  valuations. The guides  are based on extensive nationwide 
research of likely selling  prices. We check the guides to make sure the insurers valuation  is 
fair and reasonable and within the terms and conditions  of the policy. We do also consider 
other evidence, such as adverts,  but we usually  find adverts less persuasive  than the guides. 
Although, I have seen  adverts for similar vehicles from March 2019  at similar prices to those 
suggested by the guides. 
In order to decide if the offer made by One Insurance is reasonable I have looked at the 
guide valuations  for a similar make and model of vehicle. 
Ive checked the guides  available to us based on the actual mileage of the vehicle prior to 
the accident, as well as a valuation date of 15 March as the accident happened in March. 
Ive used mid-March, as Im not sure of the actual accident date.  
The three guide values are £12,300,  £12,350  and £12,899, which  gives an average of 
£12, 516.
This average  is very close to the valuation from One Insurance.  So, based  our checks Im 
satisfied the valuation used by One Insurance is reasonable. 
I realise Mr W has said the figures  used are well below the advertised  prices. Our approach 
is to place the most weight on the trade guides,  because the prices  given in these are based  
on extensive nationwide research and not just the prices  in a particular area. 
I know Mr W has provided adverts showing the price of a replacement car is £1,500  to 
£2,500 higher than One Insurances market value. And he believes the higher advertised 
prices show what it would cost him to buy a similar car. However, its hard to know  what the 
cars actually  sold for. And  as Ive already mentioned - one of the guides weve used shows  
a few adverts for similar  vehicles for much lower  prices in line with the guide figures.  
As the guides  are based on extensive  research, I am satisfied based  on these One 
Insurances valuation  is reasonable.  
I understand Mr W says his car has a scarcity value and this affects the price. I dont know 
how scarce his type of vehicle is, but as the guides  monitor prices across  the country, I 
would expect that scarcity, if it affected the price, would be reflected in the guides. 
Ref: DRN14338163In summary,  based on the industry recognised guides, Im satisfied One Insurance has 
based its settlement  on a reasonable pre-accident market value for Mr Ws vehicle and I will 
not be asking  it to do anything else.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1433816