K820x#14complaint
Mr R says a car he bought using credit provided by Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
In May 2018, Mr R took out a hire purchase agreement with VWFS  to enable him to acquire 
a car. The car cost around £9,000 and had driven 1,000 miles. It broke down in June 2018  
and had to be recovered. Two days later it was returned to the supplying dealership and 
inspected. The dealership  concluded  that the fault was caused by water ingress into the 
engine. It said that the car appeared to have been submerged. It pointed  out that there was 
a significant amount of rainfall and flooding in the local area and that this might  have caused 
the car to develop  the problem. 
Mr R complained to VWFS and said he believed  it should refund all of the payments hed 
made towards the agreement and allow him to reject the car. VWFS didnt  agree  to this and 
so Mr R referred it to this service. The investigator  said there wasnt  anything  to suggest that 
the car had a fault at the time it was supplied to Mr R so VWFS wasnt  obliged to repair the 
car. VWFS provided video evidence to show that a significant amount of water  had made its 
way into the engine. It seemed likely  that the cause of the damage was water  ingress,  rather  
than a fault with the car at the time it was supplied. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said that at the time the engine failed, 
there was no water  contact with the car except for rainwater on the ground. He also thinks  
its significant that the company that recovered his vehicle didnt identify any problem with 
water ingress despite examining the car for in excess of an hour. He also doesnt think the 
video evidence is particularly persuasive  as theres  no date stamp.  
Because Mr R disagreed  with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been referred to 
me to come to a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
VW supplied the car to Mr R under the finance agreement  so it is responsible for the quality  
of these goods. In accordance with the relevant law, the car needed to be of satisfactory 
quality. A car is of satisfactory  quality  if it meets the standard a reasonable person would 
expect taking into account a range of factors, including fitness for purpose and durability.  
At the time this car was supplied to Mr R, it had driven 1,000 miles and so was almost new. 
Under ordinary circumstances, the reasonable person wouldnt expect a car to experience 
engine failure  so soon. However, the fact that Mr Rs car broke  down and requires a 
significant repair doesnt automatically  mean that it wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the time it 
was supplied - particularly if the fault developed as a result of the conditions  in which the car 
was used. 
VWFS says that its inspection revealed  the air filter was filled with water and the video it has 
provided supports  that. I understand why Mr R would question the lack of a date stamp on 
Ref: DRN16093882the video. But the video  is of Mr Rs car and I find it highly likely that it was recorded after the 
car broke down. 
Mr R says that the company that recovered  his vehicle didnt find any indication of water 
penetration. Hes sent us a copy of the report provided by the roadside assistance  company 
in support of that.  But this document doesnt rule out the possibility of water  penetration  
its actually silent on that point. And given that a vehicle inspection  carried out by a roadside 
assistance company  is unlikely  to be comprehensive, I dont think  the fact that it failed to 
identify this as a potential cause does  much to strengthen  to Mr Rs argument.
VWFS also pointed  out that there  had been floods in the area Mr R lives around the time that 
the car broke  down. This is corroborated  by news reports  of extreme  weather conditions at 
the time.  It said the vehicle had been submerged  which Mr R strongly disputes. But the car 
wouldnt need to be completely submerged  in order for a significant amount of water to get 
into the engine  via the air filter. Mr R disagreed with this completely and has said that his car 
wasnt exposed to flooding in the area and that it was parked in a locked security compound 
on high ground  with extremely good drainage.  
Its impossible  for me to know with complete certainty how the damage to the car occurred. 
So I need to decide on the balance of probabilities whether the engine failure was likely  a 
result of the quality of the car or if it was a result of something else.  And given that water  
penetration clearly  did occur in this instance and the breakdown  coincided  with the local 
flooding, I find it to be the most likely  explanation as to how the damage occurred.
Overall, I consider the weight of the evidence suggests the engine failure wasnt because  the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Although the car now has a fault,  it isnt an inherent 
manufacturing issue. Considering the relevant law, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask VWFS to pay for the cost of repairing the car. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.  
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1609388