K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that BMW  Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
him for excess mileage  under a hire purchase agreement.
background
In June 2015, Mr F acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement  from BMWFS. The 
total repayable  under  the agreement was £20,219.51. Mr F was required to make 47 
monthly payments  of £270.33 and there was a final optional payment of £7,489  if he wished 
to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr F had the right to terminate the agreement  at any time before 
the final payment  was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under  the agreement. The agreement set out this was 
£10,109.76.
In July 2018, Mr F chose  to exercise  his right to terminate the agreement early.  His partner 
wrote to BMWFS  asking  for the agreement to be terminated. However,  as Mr F hadnt 
signed the termination request BMWFS wouldnt accept it. Mr F returned  the required 
documentation with his signature  in September 2018 and BMWFS processed the voluntary 
termination.
After Mr F handed the car back, BMWFS  later charged him a further £1,105.21 as he had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement. It also said he needed to make  an 
additional monthly payment of £270.33  as he didnt make his usual payment in August 2018. 
The agreement set out that Mr F had an annual mileage allowance  of 6,000 and a total 
mileage allowance  of 24,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS  could 
charge him 4.56 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance  by. It said that in the 
event he terminated  the agreement early,  the mileage allowance  would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
Mr F didnt  think  this charge was fair. He said that the termination section of the agreement  
didnt state that BMWFS could charge anything more than £10,109.76,  as set out by Section 
99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA).  He said when he took out the 
agreement, he told the salesperson he required an allowance  of 10,000 miles per year,  but 
the salesperson  reduced this to bring the cost of the monthly repayments down. He said he 
didnt know this had happened. Lastly, he said he shouldnt be liable for the further monthly 
repayment because  the delay in terminating the agreement was due to BMWFS. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think the delays in 
terminating the agreement early were  because of anything BMWFS did wrong, so Mr F was 
required to make the further monthly payment. She was satisfied that BMWFS  had 
calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire purchase  
agreement and the CCA. She also found  that the terms of the agreement  were clear around  
the possibility  of an excess mileage charge being  payable  on voluntary termination.
In summary,  she said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early  and S100  sets out what liabilities a consumer  has on termination.  
Ref: DRN13145072In brief,  on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least  half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total  price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable  under 
the hire purchase  agreement. It does not include charges  for items that are payable 
as compensation  for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities  that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage  charges  will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Fs agreement was clear  that the 
charge accrued before  termination  and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance  is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage  charges must therefore be included in 
the total price  of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted  towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr Fs accrued  liability under S100 therefore included  
paying an additional amount of £1,105.21.
The credit  agreement  set out clearly  the terms surrounding when excess  mileage 
would be charged,  when  it would  accrue  and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement  if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
The investigator concluded that when  considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, she was satisfied  it was made  clear and not misleading  about when an excess  
mileage charge could  be applied  and for how much. She was therefore satisfied it 
was fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional  amount. 
Mr F didnt  agree. He said he was told by the dealership  that as long as he paid half the total 
amount due under the agreement nothing further  would be due. He said the Termination: 
Your rights section of the agreement also confirmed  this to be the case and as that section 
of the agreement could conflict with other parts of the agreement it was unfair and 
unreasonable for BMWFS  to be allowed to charge more. 
Further, he said he was aware the dealership had altered the mileage to 6,000  instead of the 
10,000 he had requested  in order to bring  the monthly cost down. But he said he was 
assured no excess mileage charge would be applied if he exercised his right to voluntary 
termination. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement  
allowed Mr F use of the car for the duration  of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright  at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£7,489. While Mr F was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain conditions,  
such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum mileage each 
year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement  set out what would 
happen should Mr F not meet those  requirements.
Ref: DRN13145073Mr F exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances,  voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand  back the car without having to pay anything more.  
But this is dependant on, amongst other  things, how much  has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid,  the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges  are due. 
In this case Mr F accepts that he was required to pay at least  £10,109.76 to voluntary 
terminate the agreement.  But he disputes  the excess mileage charge of £1,105.21 that has 
been added  on top of this figure. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have  to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The Termination:  Your rights section 
of Mr Fs hire purchase  agreement  also refers  to the liability  that is due on termination  and in 
his case, that was £10,109.76.  Various sections of the agreement Mr F had with BMWFS  
also referred to the liability on early  termination, including where excess  mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase  the final liability.
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities  which accrue  prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means  is that Mr F is liable  to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement,  and that these 
charges are in addition  to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Fs hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess mileage 
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what  charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded.  It says that if the agreement is terminated  early the 
mileage allowance  will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your  obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination . Im satisfied 
Mr Fs agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue.  
However, Mr F has referred to the section of the agreement headed Termination: your 
rights. This section contains  specific wording which BMWFS were  required to include in the 
agreement, and in summary sets out that so long as Mr F has paid at least half the total 
amount payable under the agreement, he will not have to pay any more.  Mr F argues that 
the wording of this clause  is clear and means BMWFS cant  charge for excess mileage. He 
says that it contradicts the other terms in the agreement regarding  excess mileage and it is 
therefore unfair for BMWFS to rely on it. 
Ive therefore  thought  about whether this term conflicts with the rest of the terms of the 
agreement, specifically those terms that explain charges for exceeding the mileage might 
apply. In other words,  what I have  to decide  is, has the agreement been constructed in a 
way as to allow the charging  for excess mileage  without contravening what  is set out in the 
CCA regarding voluntary  termination and are those terms clear? In Mr Fs specific  case, 
I think it has. Ill explain why. 
Mr F says the other terms of the agreement  should be disregarded  as the Termination: Your 
rights section sets out clearly what the termination liability should be. While certain 
agreements can include terms, which set out consumers statutory rights   such  as those in 
S99  and it might be considered unfair for a business to contract out those rights,  I dont 
think that is whats happened here.  
The Termination: Your rights section  contains  wording that BMWFS were required to 
include. BMWFS were  not entitled to amend that wording.  However, that doesnt mean they 
Ref: DRN13145074couldnt include additional  wording or terms within the agreement  that supplemented this 
section. And importantly, they could include wording entitling them to charge additional 
charges which  might  be allowed under S99 of the CCA. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, rather than focussing  narrowly  on 
one term in isolation, I dont think the agreement is either unclear or misleading concerning 
the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains that the excess mileage charge can be 
applied in addition  to other  charges for voluntary termination. I dont therefore consider that 
the way this specific agreement has been constructed has prejudiced Mr F.  
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows  that Mr F is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent  with what  is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.  
Mr F says that the salesperson assured him that BMWFS  wouldnt  charge him excess  
mileage if hed paid at least half the total repayable under the agreement. S56 of the CCA  
has the effect of holding  BMWFS responsible for any representations made by the 
dealership (in its capacity  as BMWFS agent)  in any antecedent negotiations when entering 
into the hire purchase  agreement. While I cant know for certain  what  was discussed,  Ive 
considered everything  Mr F has said about  the sales process and the wider available  
evidence to decide what I think is most likely  to have  happened. Having done so, Im not 
persuaded its likely Mr F was misled. 
I say this because  Mr F has been  inconsistent  in his recollections of the sales process. 
When he originally raised  this issue as part of his complaint to BMWFS  he said he was 
unaware the salesperson had altered the agreement  to show  a mileage allowance of 6,000 
per year. However, in later correspondence  with our service hes told us he was aware the 
mileage was set that low but was given assurances  it wouldnt matter. Given  this 
inconsistency, Im unable  to place much  weight on what conversations Mr F says took place 
at the point of sale. 
Further, I note from correspondence  Mr F had with BMWFS between January  and July 2018 
that its likely  he was aware of the possibility of an excess mileage charge if he voluntary 
terminated the agreement. Yet despite  being  aware  of this he didnt raise any complaint  
about it at the time. Im therefore not satisfied  that Mr Fs actions were  consistent with him 
being given incorrect  information at the point of sale. While it is of course possible he was 
given misleading  information by the dealership, I havent seen anything  to persuade me that 
is more likely than not to be the case.  
Lastly, Mr F says that BMWFS delayed the termination of the agreement  in order to charge 
him a further monthly payment. From everything Ive seen, Im not satisfied that BMWFS  
caused any significant delays. 
I can see that BMWFS  did give him some incorrect information in some calls,  but the delays 
caused by this incorrect information was only a matter of a few days.  It seems  the bulk of the 
delay in terminating the agreement was due to Mr F not signing  the voluntary termination  
documents himself.  
The original  request to terminate  came from his partner who isnt a party  to the agreement  
and a subsequent voluntary termination document  was also signed by his partner instead of 
Mr F. I can see on one occasion Mr F told BMWFS he hadnt received  the termination  
Ref: DRN13145075documents they had sent, but I cant be sure this was because of anything  BMWFS  did 
wrong as it appears  it sent them, and it resent them promptly once Mr F got in contact.
Overall, while  I think BMWFS could have given  better and clearer information in some  of the 
calls, I dont think their handling of the termination  caused any significant or material  delay. 
Im therefore  satisfied BMWFS has acted fairly in asking Mr F to pay the additional monthly 
repayment for the time he was in possession of the car. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1314507