K822xcomplaint
Mr A is unhappy about St Andrews Insurance Plcs decision  to decline his claim for storm 
damage under his home insurance  policy. 
background 
In autumn of 2017 Mr A discovered water damage  in a bedroom  in his house  following a 
storm. He made a claim under his SAI home  insurance policy.  An emergency repair was 
carried out under the home  emergency cover on the policy. 
SAI sent someone  out to look at the damage. The inspection was done from the ground 
using binoculars.  It said that there was rot on the barge boards, both those still in-situ and 
the one that had fallen.  The inspector  found that the damage to the slates was not consistent  
with storm damage due to the large  number  that had dislodged in various isolate areas  on 
different elevations. It was said the roof was over 70 years old and there  had been a lack of 
maintenance  it was at the end of its natural lifespan. The conclusion was the damage  was 
due to wear and tear which had been  highlighted by the bad weather.
The internal  damage  was also commented on. It was concluded that this hadnt occurred 
due to one incident. This was because there was evidence of a long-term  problem  mould  
growth, debonded plaster and water damaged wallpaper.
Subsequently, SAI sent out a company to go onto the roof to assess  the damage at close 
quarters. The report produced confirmed that high winds had lifted tiles and released them 
from the nails securing  them to the roof. It went on to say that the pitched roof was in overall 
poor condition  with the tiles having been overpainted in the past. The valleys,  skews and 
flashings were recorded  as needing to be replaced. The flat roofs were also described  as 
needing to be replaced. 
The photographs that accompanied the report show:
the flat roof of the room where there was water  ingress had puddles on it and an 
inconsistent textural  appearance, suggesting it may not be in the best condition. 
the tiles where  the leak came from having  been lifted  and there was considerable debris 
beneath the tiles. There also appeared to be some grass growing in it. The roofing 
company had concerns because there was a gap between where one baton ended and 
the next started, which there shouldnt be. The gap in the photograph  was approximately 
a tenth of the width of a roof tile and in the middle of where it would be placed. 
a repaired flashing at the apex  of the pitched roof. There is evidence  of the ridge  
flashings having been coated with a black substance and those below it (including the 
damaged area)  having  been  painted to match the colour  of the roof tiles.
all of the photographs of the roof show  moss running along the exposed  horizontal edge 
of tiles across the entire width of the roof.
On 14 November 2017 Mr A was told by SAIs representatives that the claim was being 
declined. SAI didnt  confirm this until around two weeks later.
Ref: DRN16027372SAI didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that the inspection of the roof showed it was in poor 
condition because of a lack of maintenance. As such, SAI had concluded that the poor 
condition of the roof had been highlighted by the storm, rather  than the storm being  the 
cause of the damage. It also concluded  the internal damage wasnt  consistent  with a one off 
event of water ingress. This meant that it was satisfied it was right to decline the claim.
Whilst SAI wasnt persuaded that the customer service Mr A received during the course of 
the claim was as bad as he said it was, it did uphold this part of the complaint. It accepted 
there was a delay  in Mr A being told his claim was being declined  after the roof inspection 
report had been  received.  It paid Mr A £50 for any inconvenience or upset suffered due to 
the delay. 
Mr A wasnt  happy with SAIs response  and referred his complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators considered  the complaint. Ultimately, the investigator decided the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He provided a report from his own roofer  
based on an inspection  done in July 2018. It said that the roof was in good  order and well 
maintained. It explained  the main ridge was sealed by a cut flank  flashing  overlap. Ridges on 
the lower elevations had tiles hips. It said the dormer roofs  were  in good condition  with no 
apparent defects. In relation to the flashings  it confirmed there was evidence  of repairs  and 
surface coatings, but no apparent faults  were found. It was noted  the chimney heads needed 
repair as there was signs of the roughcast coating  failing. It recommended  a thorough check 
of the entire roof for any damaged tiles, repointing of ridge and hip tiles where needed and 
repair to the chimney  heads.
Mr A also provided some  photographs  of the roof and internal damage at my request. The 
external photographs dont show any damaged or displaced  tiles. The photograph  of the 
valley shows that it has been painted with the same black sealant as the business 
photograph shows  having  been  used on the ridge.
The photograph of the internal damage  showed  the pitched wall beside the dormer window. 
This shows there were  originally two pieces of wallpaper running  vertically down the wall. 
The one on the left had mostly been  removed, which can be seen by the small torn section 
at the top of the wall. The plaster beneath it was cracked and had an uneven  colour. The 
remaining length of wallpaper had water  damage  in the bottom left corner. There  doesnt 
appear to be mould growth and the plaster on the wall doesnt  appear to have debonded.
I considered this complaint and issued a provisional  decision on 14 May 2019. In that 
document I explained  my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.  Below is an excerpt  of 
my provisional decision.
There are three reports on file for different inspections  of Mr As home.  I dont intend  to 
consider the content of the first of these  reports as I am not persuaded it is about Mr As 
home. I say this as the property is described  as having a slate  roof and there  being  damage 
(and one fallen)  bargeboards externally. Internally, the damage  included blown plaster. 
Mr As home doesnt have  a slate roof  its roof is covered in concrete  tiles. In addition,  the 
photographs clearly  show all of the bargeboards in place and there  is no blown plaster in the 
photograph of the internal damage. I think SAIs contractor must have mistakenly  attached 
the wrong report to this claim  record.
Ref: DRN16027373So I must consider  the remaining evidence to determine whether the storm was the 
dominant cause of the damage or if the damage  was due to the roof being  in poor condition 
and the storm merely  highlighted  the need  for maintenance.
SAIs report is very brief; there  is little explanation  for the statements contained in it. The 
roofer described the roof as being  in poor condition  with some tiles overpainted and lots of 
moss on the roof. The photographs the roofer provided dont show  the overpainted tiles. The 
only overpainted element of the roof is the ridge  and flashings. Some  of this painting seems  
to be to blend with the tiles and the actual ridge in black. It also said the skews needed 
replacing, but the only photograph including sight of a skew  doesnt show  it to be in poor 
condition. The same applies  to the gulleys on the roof, although I note from Mr As 
photographs at least one gulley does appear to have been  repaired and painted with a 
painted waterproofing   indicating some maintenance may have been  needed  in that area.  
There is quite a lot of moss on the roof in both sets of photographs,  but I dont  think that 
alone would  indicate the roof was in poor condition.
There is evidence that the ridges on the lower  roofs  may have needed some maintenance 
too  repointing/seating the ridge  tiles. However,  this isnt the main roof of the house to 
which the damage occurred. Based on the evidence I have, I am not persuaded that the roof 
was in a poor condition  at the time of the storm. Indeed, SAIs  own roofers  said that the high 
winds lifted the tiles in question off their nails. There is no mention of the nails having failed 
allowing the tiles to move, but rather the winds lifting them off the nails. That isnt what  I 
would expect if the tiles had moved  because of wear and tear. As such, I am satisfied that 
the damage to the roof was caused  by the storm. 
I note that Mr A has said that the emergency roofers put the tiles back  in place and there has 
been no further water ingress. So it would appear there were no further repairs to the roof 
needed as a result of the storm damage. This would again  indicate that the storm was the 
dominant cause of the damage,  rather than the condition of the roof. As such, I am satisfied 
there is a valid storm claim.  
Whilst there doesnt appear to be any external damage needing to be covered under the 
claim, there is clearly  internal damage  that should  be covered. For the sake  of 
completeness, I would comment that I havent seen any evidence  that there  was more than 
one incident of water ingress.
SAI has accepted that there was a slight delay in telling Mr A that his claim wasnt being 
accepted. It offered £50 for any upset or inconvenience this caused. I have considered this 
payment and in the circumstances I consider it was sufficient. 
Mr A confirmed he accepted the provisional decision. SAI said it had considered  what  I had 
said and accepted the internal damage should  be covered under the storm claim.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so and in light of the 
parties both accepting my conclusions,  I see no reason to alter them.
Ref: DRN16027374my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  St Andrews  Insurance  plc to settle  
the claim for the internal  damage to Mr As home  under the storm claim. Under the rules  of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision 
before 18 July 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1602737