K820x#14complaint
This complaint relates to a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy taken out by Mr D. The 
policy was bought through a broker but a company called Openwork Limited is now 
responsible for the sale. Ill therefore  refer mainly to Openwork throughout this decision.
background
Mr D took out the PPI policy  in 2007.  It cost around £18 per month and if successfully 
claimed against, could have  provided a benefit  of £727 per month.  
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  But Mr D 
disagreed and asked for it to be passed  to an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Mr Ds central  point  of complaint is that the PPI was promoted to him by a financial adviser 
and the possibilities of losing his job were  exaggerated  during the meeting(s). He says 
undue influence was used to get him to buy the policy.
Im sure this will be his honest interpretation now but these events were  quite  a while  ago 
and upon reflection, any insurance which turns out to be unused might feel to have been 
somewhat unnecessary.  I say this because weve been sent some  documents from the sale 
which tend to strongly indicate Mr D had the PPI cover explained  to him and that he 
accepted the offer to have  the policy set up.
We know, for example,  that there was probably a discussion between  the parties about 
having this type of protection. This was listed  in a letter sent to Mr D in September  2007 
which basically summarised the discussions that took place. 
There was also an electronic application for the PPI. I note this set out the cost and the type 
of policy  it was. Notably,  I see Mr D opted  only to have unemployment protection, rather than 
the more common  policy which  also included sickness and accident cover  as well. To me 
this suggests  he gave some thought to his situation and that he decided  that this form of 
limited cover  suited his particular circumstances.
His mortgage offer also specified that the only insurance he needed to buy was buildings 
cover. And as an important part of the mortgage process, I think Mr D would have wanted to 
read this document carefully.
So overall, theres no real dispute that Mr D agreed  to the policy  at the meeting. I think the 
evidence solidly supports this and that he engaged in the process to set up a policy that 
suited his situation. I think the policy being  recommended to him is different to him being  told 
he had to have  it. 
Ref: DRN11239482The evidence shows Openwork properly obtained  his consent.
The policy was recommended to Mr D as part of an advised sale. This means  there was a 
duty to ensure it was suitable for Mr Ds situation. I think it was.
All the indications are that Mr D was eligible for the cover and not caught  by any of the 
major exclusions  we tended to see in these polices.  The costs seem to me to be comparable 
with similar  policies I know were marketed at the time and Ive got nothing that suggests the 
monthly cost of the cover was unaffordable  for him.
Mr D said he had good work-place benefits with his job and also that his parents would have 
helped out. I accept his parents would have wanted  to help, but this isnt the same as 
insurance over the long-term of a mortgage. Their ability to pay would no doubt depend on 
their circumstances over time. Neither  do I think his work benefits negate the choice to have 
unemployment insurance. His mortgage  was a significant financial commitment  and secured 
against his home. The consequences of not being  able to keep up payments could have 
been serious and the concept of protecting himself with cover  like this could be viewed as a 
sensible precaution.  
The policy,  on the other hand,  covered his mortgage repayments for a year in the event of a 
successful claim  and this would have been in addition to any other benefits Mr D had at the 
time. In short, the policy was suitable for him and I dont think  the recommendation was 
unreasonable in this regard. 
Openwork also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading  so as to 
allow Mr D to make an informed  decision about  going ahead with the policy.  Ive already said 
the adviser set out all the costs and benefits and she related these to Mr Ds situation.  
Overall, the disclosure of information looks adequate, so I think Mr D had enough  to help him 
decide what he wanted to do.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. And I dont direct Openwork 
Limited to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1123948