K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains she was treated unfairly  by Capital Home Loans  Limited  which appointed a 
Law of Property Act receiver  of rent in relation to her buy to let mortgage and holds her 
responsible for the shortfall on the sale of her property.
background
In early 2008 Ms L took out an interest only buy to let mortgage of around £180,000  for a 
term of 23 years with Capital Home Loans Limited (CHL).
In 2009 Ms L fell into arrears. CHL agreed  a number  of payment arrangements with Ms L but 
she wasnt able to keep  up with the payments. And Ms L wasnt  able to reduce the arrears  
that had built up.
CHL felt communication with Ms L had broken down and in around January 2012 it 
appointed a Law of Property Act receiver of rent (the receiver). 
CHL took possession of the property and sold it in September 2013 with a shortfall  of almost 
£18,850. With additional charges Ms L currently owes around £22,700.
Ms Ls unhappy CHL continued with the receiver in place even though  shed explained her 
difficult personal circumstances  that had caused  her financial problems and made  some  
proposals to pay back the arrears.  She thinks CHL should be responsible  for the shortfall on 
the sale of the property.  And Ms L wants CHL to compensate her for the distress shes  
suffered because of how CHLs treated her.
CHL didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint  so she referred  it to this service. Our investigator didnt 
think CHL had done anything wrong. Ms L didnt agree with our investigators opinion so Ive 
reviewed everything afresh  to come to a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L started  investing  in property in 2005. She bought a number of properties and says 
shed never  missed a mortgage payment until October 2009 when she fell into arrears  with 
CHL. Ms L was going through  a difficult divorce and struggling with her health which led to 
financial problems and missed payments. But Ms L says she was in a position to get things 
back on track with CHL once her divorce  had been finalised in May 2012.
Ms L made no payments to CHL between October 2009 and February 2010. She wasnt  
able to make  payments  in line with an arrangement CHL agreed with her to pay the 
contractual monthly payment  only for three months  starting December 2009. And by 
February 2010 she had arrears of around  £5,220. As well as her personal difficulties, the 
property had been vacant for a period and Ms L had also had to spend  money  on repairs.
CHL warned Ms L it would appoint  the receiver if she didnt make  payments or discuss with it 
how shed repay  the arrears. CHL delayed the appointment when Ms L was able to make a 
payment in March  2010. And in June 2010  CHL agreed a payment arrangement with Ms L 
which she kept to until around July 2011.  
Ref: DRN15443792In November 2011 Ms L told CHL shed cancelled  her direct debit as she was changing bank 
accounts and shed be making  the next two months payments manually. But the payments 
werent made.
The receiver  was appointed, CHL say as a last resort,  in around January 2012.  
Ms L wrote to CHL in July 2012 setting out some proposals to pay the arrears and reassure 
CHL shed pay in the future. Ms L says she couldve sorted  things out if it CHL had agreed to 
these. 
Taking all the circumstances into consideration I think  CHL treated Ms L fairly and 
reasonably. For example:
CHL gave Ms L fair warning it would  appoint the receiver if she didnt make  payments 
or proposals to pay off the arrears.
CHL tried to communicate with Ms L about the arrears but often found it difficult to 
get hold of her and she didnt  cooperate. Although Ms L was in contact with CHLs 
field agent earlier on, I can see CHL had problems getting hold of Ms L on many  
occasions. 
CHL gave Ms L time to make  proposals  to pay off the arrears  and agreed payment 
arrangements with her over a long period between 2009 and 2011. 
CHL delayed appointing the receiver until January 2012 giving her the chance to 
make proposals before  the appointment.
On balance, whilst I appreciate Ms Ls difficult situation, I think  it was reasonable for CHL to 
go ahead  with arranging  for the receiver to be appointed in line with the mortgage terms 
when she failed to pay in November 2011  or make  any proposals to clear  the arrears.
CHLs explained its not generally its policy to hand back properties in litigation,  although  
exceptions do apply.  But it wasnt willing to make  an exception for Ms L in light of the history  
of her account and her poor communication. I acknowledge  Ms L made some proposals  in 
July 2012 and that her divorce  wasnt finalised until May 2012. But I think CHL had been 
very patient and, given  the way Ms L had managed her account,  on balance, I think  CHLs 
decision was a reasonable one. 
The receiver  managed  the property for a while but the tenants fell into arrears and eventually  
left the property in around July 2013. The property  was in a poor condition.  And it was 
estimated works to repair  the property so it could be re-let would cost around £18,000. CHL 
thought this would be too high a sum to get back if the property was sold. So in August 2013 
it decided to ask the receiver  to resign  and took possession  of the property.  CHL arranged 
for the property to be cleared and cleaned and marketed for sale. 
I think this was a reasonable decision for CHL to make. Allowing the tenants  to stay wouldve  
increased the rent arrears  and reduced the amount  being applied to Ms Ls mortgage. And it 
wasnt cost effective to repair the property for re-letting. So I think it was in Ms Ls best 
interests for the property to be sold.
Ref: DRN15443793Im satisfied CHL took the right steps  to make sure it sold the property on the best terms. It 
got several valuations.  The estate agents  were asked to market the property and also 
approach the local authority which was known  to make higher  offers  on similar  properties  
than could be got on the open market. CHL arranged for a notice to be put on a popular  
property website that higher offers would be accepted until contracts  were  exchanged. 
Based on what happened,  I dont think the shortfall  on the sale was avoidable  as Ms L has 
argued.
In October  2013 CHL told Ms L the property had been sold and asked her to complete a 
budget planner  so arrangements could  be made  for her to pay what she owes CHL. Ms L 
didnt reply to this or later letters and so CHL appointed solicitors to pursue her. Since Ms L 
didnt cooperate I think it was reasonable for CHL to take this action.
Ive explained  I think CHL has behaved reasonably and treated Ms L fairly throughout. And 
bearing everything in mind I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint. Since  Ms L remains  responsible 
to CHL for the shortfall on the sale of the property under the terms of her mortgage  Id urge 
her to contact CHL to discuss how she can repay  what  she owes  as soon as possible. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1544379