K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains about the way Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G)have  handled a 
subsidence claim she made on her buildings insurance policy.
background
In late 2016 Mrs D contacted L&G to make  a claim on her insurance; she thought  her 
property had suffered  damage caused  by subsidence. L&G thought an oak tree in her 
neighbours garden had caused  the subsidence, and recommended  it be felled. 
Mrs D didnt think this was the cause of the problem, she noted nearby construction works 
were taking place  and thought this was more likely the cause, given  the tree had stood  for 
hundreds of years.
L&G started to monitor the property  in February 2017. It also started  to make contact with 
Mrs Ds neighbour about  the tree being  cut down.  
In summer  2017, Mrs D complained to L&G. She said the works to repair her property still 
hadnt started,  and shed been sent numerous schedules  of when work would start, only for it 
to be delayed again. L&G said the oak tree needed to be cut down before the repair work 
could start on the property. It said it had been contacting  Mrs Ds neighbour since  February  
2017 but it hadnt received a positive response. It said because of this, it had instructed 
solicitors. L&G did recognise  there  had been  a short delay in starting  to monitor Mrs Ds 
property. This should have started in January 2017  but it didnt until another  month later.  So 
if offered £50 as an apology.
Unhappy with its response, she brought her complaint to our service.
On 13 August 2019 I issued a provisional  decision  on this complaint, in which I said:
Im aware that this complaint has moved on since our investigator  reached his 
opinion on the case. And I think its relevant to my findings that I consider L&Gs  
actions since our service became involved in July 2018.
L&G has said that because it hadnt been able to get agreement  for the tree to be 
removed, it installed a tree root barrier system  in April 2019.  Its been carrying  out a 
further period  of monitoring since  this has been installed, to ensure the property has 
stabilised. It said a site visit is due to take place in mid-August 2019 in preparation for 
when the monitoring  confirms Mrs Ds property is stable. The site visit is so repair  
works can be agreed.
Our service is here to step in when parties  cant agree a way forward. But because it 
seems the claim is progressing, there is little finding I can make  at the moment  on 
any further action  L&G should take.  But I can consider the delays  Mrs D has 
experienced during the claim. And having done so, Im minded to recommend that 
L&G pay Mrs D £2,000  for the unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience it has caused 
her during  the claim.  Ive explained why below.
Mrs D first raised  her claim in October  2016, and it seems nearly three  years  later 
monitoring is still needed on the property. Having considered  the history  of the claim, 
Im not satisfied L&G has progressed it as proactively  as it should. I appreciate 
subsidence cases can take some time to resolve, but I think 12 months is a 
Ref: DRN10290282reasonable period of time to monitor a property and carry out a repair. So I consider 
L&G has caused a substantial delay in progressing this claim.
L&G started its initial monitoring in early 2017. It had already established through  an 
arborist that the tree in the neighbours property was the most likely cause of the 
subsidence. Whilst Mrs D has raised  concerns about whether that really was the 
cause, Im satisfied that the reports and monitoring show its the most likely cause of 
the subsidence. The monitoring went on for in excess of a year.  I think  this was an 
unnecessarily long period of time, based  on the evidence from the arborist and the 
early monitoring  results. It seems  L&G were  confident by summer 2018  that the tree 
was causing significant downward movement. So I dont think any further monitoring 
was necessary after that point.
I accept the tree was on a neighbouring property, so L&G couldnt proceed to cut it 
down. But having  looked at its communication with the neighbour, Im not satisfied it 
did enough to move this forward promptly. In a ten month period from February  to 
December 2017,  it wrote to the neighbour only four times. One of which  was after the 
consumer had chased for an update.  I think L&G should have done more to chase  a 
response to progress the claim.
In October  2017, L&G told Mrs D it couldnt  do anything unless her neighbour 
confirmed in writing that the tree wouldnt be removed. But Mrs Ds neighbour had 
already responded to L&G in March  2017. And I think it was clear from the response 
that he had no intention of taking any action  relating  to the tree. And given hed 
confirmed this in writing Im not sure why L&G needed him to do this again before 
taking further  action. So I think it would have been  reasonable  for L&G to explore 
other options by October 2017  at the latest. I say this because I think  some 
monitoring was reasonable over the summer  months to be sure it was the tree that 
was causing the issue. But by October  this was clear  and it was alo clear  the 
neighbour wasnt engaging.
 
L&G has now installed  a tree barrier root system. But this was only done  as of April 
2019. Because I think this should have  been installed by around  October  2017  at the 
latest, I think the unnecessary delay here is around  18 months.  I appreciate  the 
monitoring is still ongoing and theres  a chance that further delays  in the claim might 
occur from this point. If that were  the case, Mrs D would  have to complain to L&G 
about these separately, and she could refer this to our service  if shes unhappy with 
the response.
 
This delay  has caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience to Mrs D as shes 
been living in a property with severe  damage  for much longer than she should have 
been. Had the monitoring ended and a way forward been agreed  sooner, as I think it 
should have been, Mrs Ds claim would probably be resolved by now and her 
property would be repaired. But shes now been  living in a property with severe 
damage for a number  of years, which I think will have caused  added worry. Mrs D 
reports at one stage  that she heard rubble falling between the internal and external 
walls of the building,  and she was worried about  the security of the property.
There have also been issues  with temporary repairs, which have caused Mrs D 
unnecessary distress.  Because  of the severity of the movement to her property, Mrs 
Ds been left with windows and doors that have been difficult  to secure. L&G has 
attended the property on a couple  of occasions to carry  out some  temporary  repairs 
Ref: DRN10290283to these. But Im not satisfied it has acted on this promptly. From what  Ive seen Mrs 
D reported these  issues in January 2018,  and was told in July 2018 that no one could 
attend her property. It was only when  our service intervened  towards the end of 2018 
that L&G agreed to send  someone to assess the damage and carry out temporary 
repairs. This meant Mrs D was left for months  with windows and doors that were  
sticking, and it made  her concerned for the safety  of her property.
I also consider that as well as unnecessary  delays,  L&Gs communication  with Mrs D 
has been poor. Months have gone  by with little updates provided unless chased by 
her, and this meant she wasnt sure what was happening or why the claim wasnt 
progressing. And L&G has frequently changed  the expected timescales  for repair  
without a proper  explanation. This lead Mrs D to be inconvenienced by having to 
chase for more detail.
Given the length of the delay caused by L&G and the severe cracks in the property 
that Mrs D has been  left with that was longer than necessary, I think  £2,000  
compensation is a fair amount in the circumstances for the delays  suffered up until 
April 2019.
Miss D accepted the provisional decision,  but said she still had concerns over L&Gs  
commitment to resolving the claim without  any further delays.
L&G said in its response that the monitoring from the tree root barrier system  had suggested 
signs of recovery. So it is looking to book  in repairs at the start of October. It didnt say 
whether it accepted the compensation I had recommended in my provisional decision,  but 
provided no further comments on it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs D is anxious to have the claim resolved. To resolve her complaint she 
wants to know when  the work will start. L&G intend to carry out monitoring for another  month  
[i.e. in September] to confirm the property is stable. And if thats the case  its said the repairs 
will be scheduled in at the beginning of October. This seems reasonable and I think  L&G 
should, if it hasnt  already,  confirm this date to Mrs D in writing  as soon as the final 
monitoring has taken place. 
Neither party has provided any comments which have made me rethink the amount of 
compensation I awarded in my provisional  decision. So for the reasons Ive previously set 
out, I find L&G needs to pay Mrs D £2,000 compensation for unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it has caused.
my final decision
My final decision is Legal & General Insurance Limited needs to pay Mrs D a total of £2,000 
compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience its caused.1
1 Legal  & General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date 
on which we tell it Ms D accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
Ref: DRN10290284Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Ref: DRN1029028