K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Northern Bank Limited mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr B applied for a credit card in branch in December  1998 and the PPI was also sold at this 
time. Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Mr B, Northern Bank  shouldve made  it clear  the policy was optional.  
It also shouldve got Mr Bs agreement to take it out. Mr B says he wasnt  told the policy was 
optional. As the credit  card and PPI were taken out during a meeting, I dont know what  was 
discussed. Where I have limited information about  a sale, I must decide  what  I think is more 
likely based  on the information and evidence I have seen.
Northern Bank has given us a copy  of the application which was completed following Mr Bs 
discussions with the advisor. Unfortunately, this isnt very clear,  so its also given  us a clear  
sample application which is the same  as the one Mr B completed. Within  these applications  I 
can see there is a section called Visa  Protection  Plan followed by a statement explaining: 
We recommend Payment Protection Plan to all cardholders. And on Mr Bs actual 
application it looks like a tick has been  placed next to Yes, I wish to take advantage of the 
Visa Repayment Protection Plan. There is also an option to select  No below this if Mr B 
did not want the cover. I wouldve expected Mr B to read over this form and raise  any 
questions he had at the time before signing it.
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mr B knew at the time
that the PPI was optional and that he decided to take it. But I can understand why he might 
not recall this now, as the sale took place  many years ago.
Northern Bank advised Mr B to take out the policy.  So it shouldve  made  sure the policy was 
right for him. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time the PPI was sold, 
I think it was. I say this because:
Mr B appears to have  been eligible for the policy.
Based  on what Mr Bs told us about his circumstances at the time of sale he wouldnt 
have been affected  by any of the things the policy  didnt  cover   like known health 
issues or unusual  employment  arrangements. So there  was nothing to stop him 
claiming the full benefit of the policy if hed needed to.
Mr B cant remember if he wouldve received employer benefits.  The PPI couldve 
been of use to Mr B as it wouldve  paid 10% of the outstanding balance on the card 
for up to 12 months if he couldnt work due to illness or if he was made redundant. 
This wouldve  been on top of any employer benefits he may have got, meaning he 
wouldve been able to use this for other  everyday  living  expenses.
Ref: DRN16112232Mr B says he had savings at the time. But the PPI wouldve allowed him to keep 
these savings intact. Mr B has also referred to money in property and an endowment  
policy. But these funds would  not have been  easily accessible. So the PPI wouldve 
been of use should  the unexpected  have  occurred. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable  to Mr B. And as the 
premium was paid monthly,  he could  have cancelled the policy  at any time if anything  
in his circumstances changed.
As well as checking the policy  was suitable for Mr B, Northern Bank  also shouldve given him 
clear information about the policy so that he could make a proper choice about whether or 
not to take it out. I dont know what steps Northern Bank took to do this and its possible 
some things werent explained  as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer  
information wouldve  changed Mr Bs decision. I think hed still have  bought it. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the policy was suitable  for him.
Ive thought about Mr Bs comments carefully,  but these points dont change my decision.
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Northern Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about  that. Because Northern  Bank didnt tell 
Mr B, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Northern Bank  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
I understand that Northern Bank  has made a payment to Mr B for commission which  it has 
then revised. Northern Bank should  be in touch  with Mr B with more details about this if it 
already hasnt been.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already paid some of 
the commission and profit share  to Mr B but it should pay him anything  extra  it now 
calculates he is due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16112233
Ref: DRN1611223