K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc has incorrectly and unfairly recorded a 
default on his credit file while he was abroad  for a year. He says hes acknowledged the debt 
and made  arrangements  to repay  it. He wants the default removed.
background
NatWest said in its final response that itd sent out a number of letters about the debt and 
default to Mr Ws address and statements to his email address. It was his responsibility to 
maintain and monitor his account. No bank error has occurred.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Between January and June 2018  NatWest sent a number of letters to Mr Ws 
parents address as he was away overseas. It wasnt  obliged to contact him in any 
other way and it wasnt aware of other addresses  for him. It made reasonable  
attempts to contact  him. And it wasnt NatWests fault its letter  werent opened.  
The accounts terms and conditions say it may be made dormant to protect against 
fraud if its not used  for some time and the overdraft is repayable  on demand. They 
also say information  will be shared with credit reference  agencies about how the 
account is managed.
Before NatWest entered  the default  it asked Mr W to credit money to the account  and 
said if he didnt the overdraft may become  repayable.  As it was unhappy with the way 
the account was being  managed  it later asked for the overdraft to be repaid as it was 
entitled to do. And it eventually applied the default.
NatWest hasnt made an error. And she will not be asking it to do anything.
Mr W doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
The accounts terms and conditions make clear that if the account isnt used for some time 
NatWest may make  it dormant  and that it will share  information with credit reference 
agencies. They also say the overdraft is repayable on demand.
During the period Mr W was away his account  wasnt used and NatWest decided to make it 
dormant. And as it didnt  hear from him and money  wasnt paid into the account it later 
requested repayment  of his overdraft. It subsequently issued a default notice and recorded 
this on his credit file. I think this was all in line with the accounts  terms and conditions and I 
dont think NatWest did anything wrong  in these  regards.
I also think NatWest adequately communicated with Mr W. And it wasnt its fault if the letters 
it sent him werent  opened.
Ref: DRN15357902It was and remained Mr Ws responsibility to manage and maintain his account even while  
he was away overseas for a considerable time. It was up to him to make alternative  
arrangements for his post to be monitored or forwarded. And he wouldve been aware of the 
situation on his account as he was sent statements by email.
In addition NatWest  wasnt  obliged to mark its letters as urgent or to try to contact Mr W by 
any other methods  as hes suggested.
NatWest has an obligation to accurately record the conduct of the account on Mr Ws credit  
file which  includes recording any defaults. And I think its done so in this case.
I recognise Mr Ws frustration. But taking every  thing into account  I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably require NatWest to do anything more than its already done,  including  removing 
the default from Mr Ws credit file as hed like.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1535790