K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that A J Bell Management  Limited caused delay with her application for a 
Lifetime ISA (LISA), taking her past her 40th birthday  the upper  age limit for an account to 
be opened  meaning shes now unable to take advantage of the account.
background
Mrs J originally applied for a LISA in November 2017. She didnt provide identification 
information in the required format and the process was cancelled.  
She then reapplied in March 2018 but again there  were problems with the identification 
requirements. These centred upon  the provision of a certified  copy of Mrs Js passport. A J 
Bell needed  the person certifying  the document to sign it and add their name, occupation, 
address and phone number.
It seems  that the person  certifying Mrs Js passport  stated their occupation as investment 
banking rather than stating their job title. But in communicating with Mrs J that the passport 
hadnt been certified in line with its requirements,  A J Bell failed to spell out precisely  what  
the problem was. By the time the matter  was resolved the completed  application  was 
received too late for the account to be opened before Mrs Js birthday and the opportunity  
was lost. 
A J Bell felt it had done sufficient to make Mrs J aware of what  was required. It noted  that 
thered been issues with her email address that had delayed the process  but that ultimately, 
across both application attempts, shed been provided with enough  information.  It did 
acknowledge that, as a separate matter,  it had unnecessarily  asked her for certified bank 
statements on repeated  occasions and offered £100  as compensation for that 
inconvenience. 
Mrs J wasnt happy with A J Bells response  so referred the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator felt it should be upheld. In brief, she considered that A J Bell had failed to 
pinpoint to Mrs J what the specific problem with the passport certification was. So, as a 
result, it had made  it very difficult for her to correct the problem. The investigator therefore  
felt A J Bell was responsible for the process  being delayed so the LISA couldnt ultimately be 
opened for Mrs J.   
The investigator proposed that A J Bell compensate Mrs J on the basis  of the potential loss 
of bonuses she would otherwise have  benefited from. The investigator  considered  that Mrs J 
would most  likely have  been able to make the maximum  LISA  contribution of £4,000 per 
year for the next ten years and so had potentially lost out on £1,000 of bonus per year  
£10,000 in total. The investigator  also assumed  that Mrs J would have  left this money 
invested until age 60 so the bonuses  could then be claimed in full.  
This being so, the investigator calculated  that a sum of £8,250  would be required now in 
order to be invested  to replicate Mrs Js potential position in 20 years  time. But she 
acknowledged that there were a number of variables that could impact  upon the return  over 
such a long time period, so she felt that an approximate 25% reduction should be applied to 
the compensation payment to acknowledge these variables, giving a final figure of £6,000.
A J Bell didnt wholly accept this. It said, in brief:
Ref: DRN17905602Its terms of business meant  it could  decline an application  entirely  at its discretion. 
So there was never a guarantee  that Mrs J would be able to open a LISA.
If Mrs J hadnt  delayed  reapplying there wouldve been time for her to complete the 
application. She shouldve been fully aware  of the timings after already having  had 
one application  cancelled. 
It was reasonable  to expect Mrs J to understand the details of the certification 
requirements, or to query them if she didnt; not least  given the number of times they 
were communicated to her. Especially after her having had one application cancelled  
and knowing that the deadline of her 40th birthday was approaching.
The discount of 25% to the proposed compensation  is in respect of;
oMrs J's potential failure to pay in the maximum subscription each year 
ofailure to achieve  the projected  investment return of 4%
othe possibility  of the LISA being decommissioned,  which  presumably also 
includes the risk of the annual  contribution limit or amount  of the bonus being 
reduced, or an alternative more  attractive  product  being introduced  
othe possibility  of Mrs J mitigating her loss via pension contributions. 
Given this large number of variables, a 25% discount is not fair or reasonable and 
should be higher.
The investigator indicated that she thinks it unlikely Mrs J will withdraw funds from 
her LISA  before  age 60. But in her response to the investigator  Mrs J had said she 
wished to have  access to the funds  in her LISA before the age of 60, in case of 
unforeseen circumstances.
The investigator indicated that she thinks Mrs J's new employment  status  suggests  
shell have the means  to subscribe  to a LISA every year until age 50. Mrs J, in her 
response to A J Bells point about mitigating  her loss via pension  contributions,  
indicated that she also intends  to make  the maximum pension contributions annually 
(currently £40,000). Notwithstanding her new employment, A J Bell believes it 
unlikely she will be in a position to do so given variables such  as death, illness,  
having a family, etc.  
    
In summary,  further to the above  points, A J Bell offered to split liability  and offer Mrs J 
£1,500 to compensate for any lost bonus. However,  she didnt accept the offer.  She disputed 
much of what A J Bell had said and noted  that while she had indicated that she accepted  the 
investigators view and proposed compensation, she did so in the spirit  of compromise as 
she felt that her potential  loss was actually far greater.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN17905603the delay
Having looked  closely at the chronology of events  Im satisfied that the failure to open the 
LISA was a direct result  of A J Bell failing to specify to Mrs J precisely  what was causing  the 
certification problem. 
I accept there were other  hiccups along the way  not least Mrs Js initial abandoned  
application. But as it got near to the deadline the only problem was the certification of the 
passport and I have  very little doubt  that if A J Bell had simply said to Mrs J that the person 
certifying her passport needed to write  their occupation as investment banker rather  than as 
investment banking then the problem wouldve been resolved immediately. 
By instead just reiterating the general requirements  I dont think  there  was any way Mrs J 
wouldve been able to determine that the above  subtle change  should be made.  I dont think 
it would  be unreasonable to conclude  that giving ones occupation as investment banking  
was as correct as giving investment banker. 
compensation 
A J Bell has, to extent, acknowledged a degree  of liability for the delay. Hence its offer of 
£1,500. But I dont think this sufficiently reflects Mrs Js potential loss. 
That said,  I think its important to stress that any loss in this case is very much a potential 
one. Its impossible to know with any certainty what would  have happened over the next 20 
years if Mrs J had been successful in opening her LISA. There is, of course, a possibility that 
she may have completely  changed her mind  and never contributed  to it at all.  
But Mrs J has confirmed that it was her intention to contribute  fully for the next 10 years (the 
maximum period, up to age 50) then retain the LISA for a further  10 years to age 60 in order 
to be able to claim the full bonuses paid. Ive no reason  to doubt this and her circumstances 
suggest this is something she will be in a position  to do. 
So, it seems  reasonable  to do as the investigator did and estimate what  the maximum 
£10,000 of bonuses that Mrs J wouldve been able to obtain  would be worth in 20 years  time 
if left invested at a reasonable  proxy  rate of return of 4% - a figure of just over £18,000.  The 
amount needed  now to generate this figure  in 20 years time would be £8,250, again using 
the 4% rate.
But, as noted,  there  are very many  variables associated with this, all of which A J Bell has 
raised, as noted  above, so I wont repeat them here.  Any deduction to reflect how these  
might impact  the situation in the future is unavoidably  going  to have to be a very rough and 
ready estimation. 
But I think the investigators figure of 25% is a reasonable one. Mrs J may have contributed  
less and/or achieved  a lower rate of return; or the product may be changed to be less 
beneficial at some point. But ultimately  I think  that, for instance, a 50% reduction to the 
potential return would  be too much to reflect these  variables, so a 25% reduction strikes me 
as a reasonable compromise. 
I note that A J Bells proposed reduction of over 75% reflects  the possibility of Mrs J 
withdrawing funds  at some point  to use for a house  purchase. But Ive seen nothing to 
Ref: DRN17905604suggest that she was intending to use the LISA for this purpose rather than for saving for 
later life (if indeed she could, as a LISA can only be used for a first house purchase).
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct A J Bell 
Management Limited to pay Mrs J compensation of £6,000. 
For clarity that amount is in addition to the £100 already offered in respect  of the repeated 
requests for certified bank  statements.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1790560