K820x#14complaint
Ms B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Ms B took out in 2003.  It was added  to her 
account during  a phone call.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Ms B, so it didnt have to check  it was right for her. But 
it did have to give Ms B information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not misleading, so 
she could decide  for herself whether it was right for her.
This policy excluded  claims resulting from a medical  condition  the customer already knew  
about or recently got advice or treatment for before the policy  started. Ms B had two such 
conditions, which wouldnt have been covered. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
show that this exclusion  wouldve  been discussed  during  the sale.
I think the exclusion wouldve mattered  to Ms B. From what  shes told us, both conditions  
predated the sale by at least 10 years and both conditions had caused her recurring  issues 
over the years and significant time off work.  So I think  Ms Bs conditions  wouldve mattered 
to her around the time of the sale and she may have considered them  to be the most likely 
causes for her to make a claim, given how much they had already affected her. But under  
the policys terms, she couldnt claim for any time off resulting from her conditions. So she 
couldnt have  claimed on the policy for everything she might have expected  to be able to.
I cant see that FICL gave  Ms B clear  enough information about the exclusion for pre-existing 
medical conditions  at the sale. If it had done, then I think its most likely  Ms B would  not have 
bought the policy. So I think this PPI policy has been mis-sold.
putting things right
FICL should put Ms B in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms B would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN14276442So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms B owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, if Ms B has already received a refund 
of the commission  part of this PPI policy, then FICL  can take that off of what it owes  her, 
so that she doesnt receive a refund of the same thing twice.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms B would  have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% simple  a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms B would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms B paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year.
D.FICL should tell Ms B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Bs complaint.  Financial Insurance Company 
Limited should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1427644