K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms L complain about the way DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance Company  Limited  
dealt with claims on their legal expenses insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Ms L owned a house which was let out to tenants through letting agents. The house  
had a garage which was let to a different person under a separate  agreement.  
Mr and Ms L had home insurance for the property with an insurer  from 2008 onwards. From 
2015 the policy included the benefit of legal  expenses  insurance, provided as an add on to 
the policy by DAS.
In September  217 it became clear  there  was a problem with the tenants who rented the 
house and this led to Mr and Ms L making a claim on the legal expenses  policy. In 
December Mr and Ms L discovered that the garage,  which they'd let to separate  tenants, 
was in very poor condition. They raised  this as a separate claim on their legal expenses 
cover.
Mr and Ms L received  a phone call from the home insurer  in April 2018 who said after 
speaking to DAS,  it had become aware the house and the garage  were being let separately.  
The home insurer said it wouldnt  offer cover  in these circumstances and the policy would  
have to be cancelled.  Mr and Ms L were  given a ten-day period to arrange alternative cover  
and given a number for an insurer  that might insure them.
DAS agreed to cover the legal expenses claims and passed these to panel solicitors to 
consider. The solicitors said it was unlikely the claims  would succeed  except on a couple  of 
small issues and they wouldnt win much  at court. 
Mr and Ms L complained  about the way their claims were dealt with. They  said: 
There was at least a 6 month delay in confirming cover  for their claims. DAS spent a 
long time chasing the incorrect policy number.
DAS didnt comply fully with a Subject  Access Request (SAR). 
They were given  legal advice by people unqualified to give legal advice. 
The home insurer cancelled their policy due to the arrangement with the garage after 
a phone call with DAS,  and it was cancelled because of what DAS said.  
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He said there  hadnt  been any 
unreasonable delay in dealing with the claims;  even if there had been delay replying to the 
SAR, that had been dealt  with separately  and DAS was now addressing  this; and DAS 
wasnt responsible  for the home  insurance being  cancelled.
Mr and Ms L disagree and have  requested  an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our investigator set out the sequence of 
events in his view to the parties  and, though I have reviewed everything, I dont intend to go 
over them all in detail.  
Ref: DRN12490572Mr and Ms L have complained that the home  insurer cancelled their policy  as a result of a 
phone call from DAS. While DAS raised the issue of whether the property  and garage  would  
be covered separately, that cancellation  was a matter for the home  insurer;  DAS had no say 
in that - its role is limited to providing the legal expenses cover. Im considering  the home 
insurers decision to cancel the policy in a separate complaint  against  that insurer; this 
complaint is only about how DAS dealt  with the legal  expenses claims. 
Insurers should deal with claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably. Ive considered how DAS considered the claims,  taking  into account these 
duties and the policy terms.
The policy includes  cover for property damage and contract disputes.  But there are some 
limits and exclusions. For example, theres an exclusion  for disputes  concerning  the terms of 
a lease, other than a dispute with a professional  adviser. Theres no cover for a pre-existing 
dispute (ie where theres already a dispute  when the policy starts). And for any claim, cover  
is only provided if there are reasonable prospects of success   in other words, if its more  
likely than not that the policyholder will win their case. Terms like these are comment  in legal 
expenses policies.
DAS opened several  claim files and there  were  four separate claim references. The claims 
relate to either the tenant of the property  or the agents responsible for letting it.
Mr and Ms L say they initially  made a claim in September 2017. The first claim recorded by 
DAS was on 27 December and was set up against the tenants. DAS requested further 
information on 28 December, which Mr and Ms L needed to get from the letting agents. DAS 
also requested further information about  their policy.
The letting agents didnt provide information promptly and Mr and Ms L had to chase them 
for it. They provided some policy details  by 4 January 2019 but DAS couldnt progress the 
claim without  the other information. I think it was reasonable  for DAS to wait for this.
Mr and Ms L said they also had a claim against the letting  agents for breach of contract and 
DAS set up a new claim  for this on 15 January  2018. DAS said that, from the information  
provided, the issues arose some time before  the policy had started and this meant there  was 
no cover  for this claim.  Mr and Ms L said they had had their policy  since 2008. DAS 
reviewed this with the home insurer. Although Mr and Ms L had had their home insurance 
policy since then, it hadnt included legal expenses cover until more recently. The policy 
doesnt provide  cover  for disputes that start before the policy  is taken out, so this claim 
wasnt covered.
Mr and Ms L also wanted to make  a claim about damage caused to the property in 
December 2017.  Two new claims were  set up in February 2018; one against  the tenant  and 
the second against the letting agents. To consider these claims and confirm  cover,  DAS 
requested further  information, which again  needed to be obtained from the letting  agents.  
Although the agents hadnt previously  been willing to provide the information, Mr and Ms L 
were able to get this by 19 March and sent this to DAS. 
It wasnt until around 11 April that DAS reviewed this fully, due to problems opening 
documents sent electronically and the claims handler being  away. The claims handler had 
concerns that the garage was being  let separately and might not be covered  by the policy.  
And he thought  the contract  didnt  involve a contract for goods  and services.  So it was likely 
the claims werent covered under the policy. He spoke to someone  from the home insurer 
Ref: DRN12490573about this. The home insurer  said it wouldnt provide cover if the house and garage were  
rented out separately, but it was subsequently  confirmed that these claims would be 
covered. The claims were passed to panel solicitors  to assess on 12 April 2018. 
I appreciate that cover  wasnt confirmed quickly. There was some  confusion about the policy 
numbers and whether  the policy would cover these  claims. But I dont think DAS delayed 
things unnecessarily  I cant  see periods where  it was refusing to engage with Mr and Ms L, 
ignoring their correspondence or failing to consider the claims. The confusion about  the 
policy numbers didnt  go on for a long time. There was a short delay in late March/early  April 
2018 but this was a few weeks at most. So while I understand  Mr and Ms Ls concerns that 
they didnt get cover  straightaway, I dont think this was due to unreasonable delay by DAS.
The panel  solicitors didnt feel the claims had reasonable prospects of success.  As Ive 
explained, cover  will only be provided if there  are reasonable prospects. Insurers are entitled 
to rely on legal advice  when  considering this, unless that advice is obviously wrong. Mr and 
Ms L said the panel solicitors opinion went against  the earlier advice  theyd received from a 
legal helpline  provided as part of the insurance cover.  Its not for me to review the legal 
advice and say whether  it was correct. But it was a properly written and reasoned legal 
opinion from a qualified  solicitor with suitable experience. So it was reasonable for DAS to 
rely on it. 
The panel  solicitor pointed out that he never  said they couldnt bring the claim  just that in 
his opinion they were unlikely  to win. And he said legal opinions  often  differ, which is what  he 
considered the issue was, rather  than Mr and Ms L receiving incorrect  advice from anyone.  
Mr and Ms L made a subject access request, asking DAS for the names of staff members 
who had had provided earlier advice (from DAS and from another  panel  firm which provided 
the legal  helpline) as well as telephone call recordings. When they didnt get the information 
they wanted, Mr and Ms L complained  to the Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO).  As 
they have pursued  that avenue, its not appropriate  for me to consider  this. I note that the 
ICO did find some failings  in the way DAS dealt with the request and asked DAS to take 
appropriate action.  DAS responded to that. And it offered compensation to Mr and Ms L. I 
think that was reasonable. 
DAS says its confident they found  everything  they could and provided all they could to 
Mr and Ms L. If they think DAS failed  to provide everything as required by the ICO I think  the 
appropriate way to deal with that would be for them to refer to the ICO again.
DAS offered compensation of £150 to Mr and Ms L in respect of some delay responding to 
their complaint. I think that was reasonable. Mr and Ms L have said they never received that 
payment (or the compensation offered in reply to the ICO complaint). If DAS hasnt paid the 
compensation offered, I think it should do so. But other than this, I dont require DAS to do 
any more.
.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN12490574Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 May 2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1249057