K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  
S.A. (Mapfre)  wont  meet a claim he made under his travel  insurance policy after his mobile 
phone was stolen  abroad.
background
At the end of August   2019, Mr S attended a festival abroad. While  there  he says his iPhone  
was stolen from a bag he was wearing. On his return to the UK he notified Mapfre  and 
claimed under his travel policy. 
He says that initially Mapfre indicated that it would pay him £300,  the amount covered by the 
policy for his phone.  However in October  2019 it told him it wouldnt  meet his claim because  
he hadnt reported his loss to the local police as required under the policy  terms and 
conditions. 
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. Mr Ss policy said that it 
wouldnt cover:
 2. Anything that you lost or was stolen  which you did not report to the police within  24 
hours of discovering  it, and which you do not get a written police report for.
Mr S had said that due to the language barrier he didnt feel he could adequately report  the 
loss of his phone to the police so as to obtain a usable  report.  Given that Mr S was at a 
festival abroad, the investigator wasnt sure that he would have been able to get a police 
report. She thought he had taken reasonable steps to try to locate  his phone.
Mr S said had checked the lost property tent at the festival, but without success.  He had also 
turned on the lost mode on his iPhone. Initially he said the phone had been turned off. But 
in the early hours of the following morning  he got an email showing the phones  location, 
some 10 kilometres from the festival site. Using the lost mode also meant the iPhone 
couldnt be used  by anyone unless it was unlocked by Mr S.
Mapfre responded to say, in summary, that:
it didnt think Mr S had supplied enough  evidence to substantiate his claim of a theft;
he hadnt supplied  a report from the police  or any other source; and
it didnt seem his carrier had blacklisted the phone.
The investigator said the carrier had confirmed in April 2019  that the phone hadnt  been 
used since it relayed its location to Mr S in September 2018. She thought  Mr S had done 
enough to substantiate his claim.
Mapfre responded that the carriers evidence only showed the phones sim card hadnt  been 
used since September  2018. It said the carrier hadnt blacklisted the phone  or its IMEI to 
prevent future use. So it could still be used with another sim card.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN10224572Generally we think its fair for an insurer to require reasonable evidence that a loss has 
occurred before it agrees to pay a claim. To this end, a policy will often  require a police 
report to be obtained  to establish a claim for theft. However there  may be circumstances 
where this isnt practicable.  In such cases we will consider what other evidence is available 
to support what the consumer says has happened.
In this case, the loss occurred at a festival abroad, and Mr S didnt think  he would be able to 
obtain a usable police  report. He has confirmed that he bought  a replacement phone on his 
return to the UK and transferred his previous number to this. He has also supplied  evidence 
that his previous phone  hasnt been used  since September 2018.
Mapfre has suggested that the evidence  only shows that the sim card of the previous  phone 
wasnt used, and that the phone itself could be being used with another  sim card.  However 
Mr Ss phone was an iPhone  8. He has produced evidence  that its find my phone  tracker 
was switched on after it was stolen.
My understanding is that in an iPhone 8 the effect of this is that an Activation Lock  is 
automatically switched  on, which means no one else can use the phone until its unlocked by 
the owner.
All in all, like the investigator,  I think Mr S has provided enough evidence  to establish that his 
phone was stolen  as he described. So I think Mapfre should  pay Mr Ss claim subject to the 
policy limit and any applicable excess.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania  
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay Mr Ss claim subject to the policy limit 
and any applicable excess.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1022457