K820x#14complaint
Ms S is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  turned down a claim made on her pet 
insurance policy.
background
Ms S first took out pet insurance for her dog, underwritten by UKI, in May 2015. Ms S has 
renewed that policy year on year. 
Ms Ss dog underwent surgery in February 2018  (the operation) and was diagnosed  with, 
amongst other conditions,  degenerative  lumbosacral disease.  She made a claim on her pet 
insurance policy to contribute towards  the costs associated with the operation.  UKI declined 
her claim. It said Ms Ss dog had symptoms  of having lumbosacral disease before the policy  
was taken out  so the condition was pre-existing.  
Ultimately, our investigator didnt uphold  Ms Ss complaint. Ms S disagreed so her complaint 
has been passed to me to consider everything  afresh and make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. I know 
Ms S will be very disappointed but hopefully shell understand when I explain why.
The policy doesnt  cover  any claims in connection with or arising  from any pre-existing 
medical condition.  
The policy defines  pre-existing  medical conditions as: any condition  or symptoms, or signs 
of injury or illness, that happen or exist in any form before  the pet was covered by this 
insurance.
The policy was first taken  out in May 2015.  Having considered the vet records of Ms Ss dog, 
Im satisfied UKI has fairly  concluded  that symptoms and / signs  relating to lumbo-sacral 
disease existed  before then. 
Having researched this condition, common symptoms include hind limb lameness, wobbly 
walking, inability or reluctance to jump, or climb stairs, and lower back  pain. And thats  
consistent with what UKIs  vet nurse  says. 
In 2011, so around four years before the policy started, the vets notes reflect that Ms Ss 
dog intermittently collapsed on walks, she had weight bearing  lameness, was sensitive to 
touch on her back end and hesitant  to climb stairs.  At the time, theres a suggestion this 
couldve been due to her hips  and perhaps hip dyspraxia.  
Theres also reference in the vets notes  to Mrs Ss dog having stiff poor hind limb mobility 
in March 2013 (so again before the policy was taken out). But radiographs of the pelvis and 
spine to identify  the underlying reason for this, although recommended, werent carried out 
at the time. However, they were carried out in September 2015 and the vets notes reflect 
they indicated  two areas of concern; the C spine and lumbosacral spine. The radiographs  
didnt show any issues with her hips. Although  these  entries post-date the policy being taken 
out, they do indicate the symptoms reported  in 2011  were  more likely than not related to the 
Ref: DRN19447142lumbosacral spine rather than Ms Ss dogs  hips.  And as such, I dont  think UKI has 
unreasonably concluded that the symptoms described in the vets notes from 2011  related to 
lumbosacral disease.
Ive taken into account what Ms S says about the vets records  from March 2013 and, in 
particular, that it transpired that her dog actually  had a bowel problem around that time and 
was experiencing cramping.  She said thats what made her walk in pain. It looks like she 
received a refund for the medications  her dog received at the time and she says this was 
because the vet hadnt picked this up. 
UKIs vet nurse has considered this and says whilst abdominal pain can, in some cases, 
cause a dog to have a 'hunched' or 'arched  back' stance, the notes from this time dont 
mention any abdominal pain. And regardless, she says, this doesnt  alter the clinical  findings 
noted March 2013 of stiffness and poor extension of the hind limbs, and nor does it present 
as hind limb lameness.  She concludes that abdominal pain or cramping from a gut problem 
doesnt cause  these issues.
Im not a medical  expert  and in the absence  of any further medical evidence, Im persuaded 
by what UKI says about this. Particularly as the issues  Ms Ss dog was experiencing in 2011 
(as reflected in the vets notes from this time) are consistent with symptoms of lumbosacral 
disease, and similar symptoms are noted in the vets notes up to the operation  and diagnosis  
of lumbosacral disease in 2018.  For example, in April 2017 theres reference to Ms Ss dog 
still struggling with her hind legs and her legs splaying to the side. On examination its 
reported that she was very stiff, bridging  across  left and right sacroiliac joint and lumbosacral 
joints. 
I also note that UKIs vet nurse did contact the vets surgery in the summer  of 2018 to put 
UKIs points  to the treating  vet for comment,  after its finance co-ordinator  had written  to UKI 
saying the reason for the operation was unconnected to a procedure Ms Ss dog underwent 
in 2015. However,  having been told about  the entries in the vets notes  for Ms Ss dog prior 
to the policy  commencing  in May 2015,  the vet declined to challenge UKIs conclusions  that 
signs / symptoms of lumbosacral disease  were present before then.
So, all in all, whilst  I accept a diagnosis wasnt made for lumbosacral disease prior to the 
policy starting, based on the information that UKI had at the time, and having received no 
further challenge from the vets surgery, it was fair and reasonable for it to decline Ms Ss 
claim on the basis that the operation  was for a pre-existing condition.
UKI offered to pay £100  to Ms S to compensate her for its failure to go back to the vets 
surgery before declining the claim. I think that fairly  reflects the trouble and upset she 
experienced as a result. And after all, that failure  didnt make  a material  difference to the 
outcome of the claim as the vet surgery didnt provide a further challenge after UKI explained 
its position. So, I dont  think UKI has to do anything more.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms S complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision before  27 October 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1944714