K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about the early repayment  charge (ERC) he paid to TSB Bank plc when he 
repaid his mortgage. He thinks he shouldnt have had to pay it, and hed like a refund.
background 
In May 2016, Mr B signed  up to a fixed-rate mortgage deal with TSB. He says this was for 
two years,  so he expected it to end at the end of May 2018.
In 2018, Mr B sold the mortgaged property. In April and May 2018, he says he tried to 
contact TSB about his mortgage. At that time, TSB was having problems because of its 
system upgrade, and Mr B says it couldnt access details  of his mortgage  or give him any 
information  and he went ahead with a mortgage with another  lender. 
Completion of the sale was set for 29 June  2018.  On 26 June, TSB sent Mr Bs solicitors a 
redemption statement as requested. It included an ERC of just under £1,400. Mr B phoned 
TSB to query this. He said hed taken a two-year fixed  rate in May 2016, so an ERC should 
no longer apply on repayment  of the mortgage.
TSB said the fixed rate Mr B had taken ended on 30 June 2018.  If he repaid the mortgage 
before then, hed have  to pay the ERC. Mr B felt this was very unfair,  so he made a 
complaint.
TSB wouldnt refund the ERC. But, following  our involvement, it offered to pay Mr B £150. It 
said this was for his inconvenience in not having  been able to access  his account online and 
the costs of his calls.
Our investigator thought that was fair. He found the ERC and the circumstances in which  it 
was payable were  clear in the mortgage paperwork which  TSB had provided  to Mr B in 
2016, as well as in his annual mortgage  statements. He also concluded  that TSB hadnt 
given Mr B any wrong information or misled  him.
Mr B didnt accept that conclusion, and asked for an ombudsman  to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs fixed-rate  mortgage arrangement wasnt for precisely two years, and thats not 
unusual. Im satisfied that the mortgage contract  is clear that the fixed rate ended  on 30 June 
2018, and so did the period in which  an ERC would be due if the mortgage  were repaid in 
full. The statements TSB sent Mr B each year also included that information. And I find the 
mortgage offer was clear about how the ERC would be calculated and how much  it could be.
I take Mr Bs point about the very short time between him repaying the mortgage and the 
ERC end date. The timing  was unfortunate, but I dont think it means TSB should refund the 
ERC. When a lender  offers  a fixed interest  rate, both the lender  and borrower are tied in to 
that rate for the duration of the fixed term. Theres a cost to the lender in raising the money 
to lend, which it recovers in interest  payments. If the product ends early, theres a risk the 
lender wont recover  its costs. So theres  a clause in the mortgage agreement  which  allows 
Ref: DRN19057442the borrower to exit the mortgage early  in return for paying an ERC. Lenders are allowed  
to do this.
Mr B says TSBs system problems meant he couldnt get any mortgage information  from 
TSB, and he couldnt log into his account  online to see the details. I recognise that this was 
frustrating, but I dont find it means  TSB should refund the ERC. It would always have  been  
payable if Mr B repaid  the mortgage  when  he did, and TSB had written to him in early  June 
reminding him of the date his fixed rate was ending. It had also sent him statements setting 
out when the ERC would no longer apply. One of those was dated  April 2018, when he was 
in the process  of selling  his property.
I have in mind as well the records  Ive seen of TSBs calls with Mr B on 26 June.  Those 
records say it told him the ERC would be payable if he settled the mortgage  on 29 June and 
it wouldnt be waived. I find nothing in what either  Mr B or TSB has told us that he explained 
before then that he needed to know when the ERC ended or that TSB misled  him about it. 
In all the circumstances, I cant fairly  require  TSB to refund  the ERC, and I find its offer of 
£150 is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc has made a fair offer of compensation. If Mr B accepts 
my decision,  it should pay him £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1905744