K822xcomplaint
Ms U has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited.  She isnt happy  that it 
turned down a claim under her car insurance policy.
background 
Ms Us car was stolen  by her adopted  son and she reported the theft to the police and 
Advantage. Her car was written off and Advantage  agreed a settlement figure with Ms U of 
£1400. She expected payment imminently to her bank account as agreed.
The next thing  Ms U heard from Advantage was a letter  rejecting her claim a few later weeks 
later. The letter was clearly confusing and incorrect in parts.  Advantage said that it wouldnt 
advance the claim any further  as Ms U wasnt prepared to prosecute her son. When  Ms U 
complained Advantage maintained its position  about  turning down the claim.  But it 
acknowledged some  poor service  and that the letter was inaccurate and offered her £150  
compensation. As Ms U wasnt happy  she complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her and upheld her complaint. This was because she 
didnt think Advantage acted  fairly.  It clearly told Ms U that it was going to pay her £1400 
which she accepted  as final settlement of her claim. At this point in time Advantage was fully 
aware of the circumstances  surrounding  the claim and agreed to pay out. So our investigator 
thought that it should pay the claim and agreed that the £150  compensation for the poor 
service was fair.
Both sides didnt agree  with this outcome. Advantage felt that it had acted reasonably  in 
declining the claim and Ms U felt the compensation level should  be increased. So the matter 
has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
It is not disputed  that Ms Us car was stolen either  by her adopted  son, who doesnt live at 
her address,  or one of his friends. Ms Us adopted  children have difficult  and challenging 
behaviours to the extent that her son was living with a foster  family  elsewhere and didnt 
actually access Ms Us house at the time her car was stolen. He appears to have placed  
pressure on Ms Us other son to pass him the key through an open window.
Ms U reported the matter  to the police  who provided a crime number, undertook 
investigations and formerly interviewed her son. Ive not been  made  aware whether the 
police got to the bottom of whether Ms Us son took the car and drove  it or whether it was a 
friend of his. I understand, from listening to the various calls,  that Ms U said she wouldnt 
look to prosecute  her son. But she did provide a statement  to the police  and reported  
everything to them.
During the initial stages of Advantage investigating the case its investigator discussed  the 
details of the claim in full with Ms U. He did indicate that Advantage may not meet  the claim 
as the theft was by a family member and he explained how the clause worked. But he also 
left Ms U with the clear impression that the claim could be met as it was clear  that her son, 
Ref: DRN15389262who may have been involved in the theft of the car, didnt live with her and lived with his 
foster family. 
Advantages policy says that it wont meet a claim unless loss or damage as a result  of your 
car being driven or used  without your permission by a member of your family or household 
unless the incident is reported to the police  and you send us the crime reference number. 
Given what Ms U was told on the phone by the business, that it might  meet  the claim, and 
the fact that she has clearly complied with this term - she reported the theft to the police and 
sent Advantage the crime number. I can understand why Ms U thought the claim had been 
settled in full when she was told it was and the valuation was agreed.  
Advantage has gone onto say that although  it accepts it did affirm the contract  this was done 
in error.  And it changed its position  a few weeks later in its poorly worded letter declining  
Ms Us claim. So although it accepts  its error,  that it settled the claim in full knowledge of the 
facts, Advantage  doesnt feel that Ms U has been  prejudiced as she hadnt, in effect,  spent 
the money it had offered to pay her.
I can understand its point.  But it did confirm that it would pay Ms U having suggested that it 
might in its earlier call. Plus, it didnt go on to rely on the family member clause in declining  
the claim.  It has instead relied on a general  clause which says that a consumer must fully 
cooperate with all police enquiries  and any prosecution of offenders. 
This seems confusing to me. Im not sure why its family members clause doesnt say about 
agreeing to prosecute a family member if thats what Advantage means  and wants  to 
happen. As Advantage is aware  this service generally interprets  ambiguity  in the favour  of 
the consumer.  
But it is clear that Ms U has met its family  member  clause  and I cant be sure, from the 
information before me, that she didnt  cooperate  with any prosecution of offenders. I say this 
as she reported  the theft to the police, made  a statement and has suggested that the police 
might not want to prosecute given her sons special needs, as opposed  to her willingness to 
attend court. And it is possible that a friend  of her sons was the culprit in any event.
So, having  considered all of this I think the fair and reasonable thing  to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case,  is for Advantage to pay the claim. It should  pay the agreed 
settlement figure of £1400  plus 8% simple  interest  from the date of claim as Ms U has been 
without this money.
I can understand why Ms U would like further  compensation. I say this as she was poorly 
advised about cancelling the direct debit. Although I take Advantages point that the premium 
should have been paid in case a claim was made against the policy  it didnt tell Ms U this. 
But it advised her that she could cancel  her direct debit and then pursued  her for the 
outstanding premium and passed  this on to a debt management company. This mustve  
been stressful for Ms U when she shouldve been advised that she needed to pay her direct  
debit and that she was free to put another car on cover  if she wished. As Ms U borrowed 
money to buy a new car she may have  chosen  to do that, although she has suggested she 
had completely lost faith in Advantage.
But as Advantage has waived the outstanding premium  now I think  that is a fair settlement to 
the additional problems Advantage caused  Ms U once the policy was cancelled. And this 
Ref: DRN15389263amount is greater than the additional  £200  that Ms U wanted, in addition to the £150  already 
awarded, in any event. 
In relation to the £150 already offered I agree that this covers the poor service Advantage 
has provided during  this claim.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay Ms U the £1400 settlement figure it agreed, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1538926