K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLCs new Smart Investor  platform  didnt offer an 
adequate service, particularly to a client resident outside the UK like himself. He also said its 
communications had made a range of repeated communication mistakes, failed to address 
key issues (which remained  unresolved)  and gave him unhelpful  and contradictory  advice 
about how to resolve  things. He also raised  further complaint points.
 
background 
While Mr Js original  complaint  focused on the problems caused by the switch to its Smart 
Investor system,  further complaint points were added both before and after referral to this 
service. This is a shortened summary  of them.
He said that Barclays  had continued to fail to assist in his bank account change  with long 
delays between its unhelpful responses. He said he wanted to complain  about  Barclays 
failure to provide correct tax information re dividends from one of his investments and its 
failure to deal competently with his request for this information. He now believes it has been  
providing incorrect information for years.  
He also said it had given  him incorrect information about the amount of cash  available to 
withdraw which had led to his account  going into the red by more than £1,700.
Barclays upheld Mr Js initial complaint, admitting  it couldnt  find evidence that it had 
informed him of the impact of its changes on a client based abroad.  It offered him £400 in 
compensation for this mistake which it increased  to £450 to take into account issues with its 
website.
An investigator at this service felt Mr Js complaint should be upheld, believing  that £550  was 
a more appropriate sum given the problems Barclays had caused.
She noted that Barclays offer included  £100  for the data breach resulting from Mr Js PIN 
details being sent to another  customer.  Given the seriousness of this breach she felt this 
sum should be increased to £200; hence his recommendation of an overall sum of £550.
She didnt  accept that Barclays  was wrong to send out letters  by post even though this 
inevitably was slower  than other  communication options, saying that it was entitled to make 
such a business  decision. In this context she felt its offer included  a reasonable sum for the 
failed receipt of certain letters. She also felt the evidence showed Barclays  had Mr Js 
correct address, notwithstanding one letter being  incorrectly addressed.
She acknowledged Mr Js complaint about being  unable to trade online but felt Barclays  
offer of £50 was not unreasonable given he could  still trade  via phone.  She therefore didnt 
agree that Mr J had been prevented from trading and/or lost out as a result.
She said that Barclays had confirmed that Mr J could keep his holdings in the account  until 
HMRC confirmed they were of negligible  value.
She noted that Barclays only offered  a PINS-entry system to customers  with a regular bank  
account with it, and she didnt believe this was something it was obliged  to offer Mr J.
Ref: DRN18540572Finally, she said that Barclays was entitled  to set its own charging  structure  and level of 
service, particularly given  it offered clients to move to another  provider without any costs.
After further exchanges Mr J asked for an additional £80 to more fairly  reflect  the impact of 
Barclays failure to offer him a PINS-entry  device, its failure to communicate  clearly his rights  
as a non-UK resident  customer and its failure to update his contact details.
The investigator felt this was reasonable and Barclays  agreed.
But Mr J still did not feel the compensation adequately reflected all the trouble and upset 
caused by Barclays,  notably the problems with changing his nominated  bank account and 
the fact that its Smart Investor  was not fit for purpose given it did not accept incoming 
payments. Given the extra work he had to do to get round this problem he wanted  an 
additional £280 in lieu of this issue. He also wanted  an additional £50 to reflect  the impact  on 
him from Barclays  issuing incorrect tax advice. He therefore wanted £960  in total.
He also said he didnt  believe Barclays or this service had fully looked into all the issues hed 
realised, including:
Barclays failure to respond to his initial complaint made via Resolver; this proved a 
waste of time for which he should  be compensated
Its failure to send an email confirming  a call, something which  it had promised
Other letters sent to the wrong  address, with no explanation as to what went  wrong
Further communication errors
No explanation as to why PIN numbers  were sent to the wrong address
Failure to facilitate  a Subject  Access  Request
He suggested  a further  £100  for these issues
A variety of additional  communication failures
Further problems with access  his account
Overall, taking account of these  issues and the amount of time he has had to devote 
to them,  he wanted a total of £1,019.93  in addition to the £630 already  offered (This 
amount was to include compensation for issues which were subsequently  separated  
out into a new complaint)
Finally, both parties agreed that certain  complaint points  (which had arisen since  Mr J first 
complained) should  be considered and adjudicated  via a separate complaint. These 
included:
Problems with setting up a nominated account  including communication issues
The platform change issue (although in my view this issue has been  fully dealt with in 
this complaint and the current compensation reflects this issue)
Incorrect tax advice re dividends
Incorrect balance  information
Failure to fully respond to his Subject  Access Requests
Online notification issues
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN18540573Firstly, it is important to reiterate  that this service  offers an informal  resolution service, 
designed to reach a fair and reasonable assessment of the merits of a complaint including  
what, if any, compensation is appropriate.
In this context it is not my role to necessarily  provide  a detailed  response to every point 
raised or every unresolved disagreement  about what took place. So while  I have considered 
all the lengthy  submissions from both parties  I do not intend to address  every point raised.  
Instead, I will outline why I think Barclays most  recent offer of £630  is reasonable (taking  
account of the issues  now being  considered  via a separate  complaint) - and why I agree  with 
the investigators assessment of the key issues.
The investigator took the view that Barclays was fully entitled  to provide a more  limited 
service to non-UK based customers  including not offering a PINS-entry system to those 
without a Barclays bank  account. I agree with her. It is not for this service  to decide how a 
business operates its accounts or services, and therefore I do not accept Mr Js view that the 
service was inadequate, flawed or something  for which he is entitled to compensation.
I also share the investigators view about  Barclays right to decide how to permit trading to 
non-UK customers and how to communicate  with them.  In my view Barclays  is entitled to 
offer the online stockbroker service it wants,  including restrictions on foreign-based 
investors. It is not obliged  to offer a full service  as Mr J contends.  It offers a cost-free exit for 
those who are not happy with its Smart  Investor limitations so customers such as Mr J can 
choose to move to a new platform  without financial loss. Again, this means I do not accept 
that Mr J is entitled to compensation for the undoubted  trouble and upset this switch has 
caused him.
There is no doubt that Barclays made a number of repeated  errors  and this is why the 
investigator recommended that it increased its compensation to £630, which it agreed to. 
But, in my view, this compensation already took account of a number of the issues  Mr J 
highlighted in his account of why the figure should  be increased.
I accept that he pointed to some  issues which  had not been fully addressed  but in my view 
these were either related to issues already considered or now being  considered  via a new 
and separate  complaint. It may be that the investigator decides that these issues  deserve 
additional compensation.
I also dont share his view about Barclays responsibilities, the scale  of its failures  or what  is 
required when mistakes  and errors  have  come to light.  For example,  while  Barclays has 
admitted (in some cases belatedly)  that letters were sent to the wrong address/email  and 
that promised  responses  did not materialise, I do not think  it is now necessary for it to get to 
the bottom  of what precisely went wrong as a precondition for this complaint being resolved. 
Mistakes do happen  in business  - as elsewhere  in life - and when these occur we expect a 
business to compensate customers  accordingly. However, it is not our role to instruct  a 
business to undertake a forensic  investigation to discover the cause of every mistake. So I 
dont accept that we should be forcing  Barclays to do more to discover why particular  errors  
occurred. If there are fundamental errors with the Smart Investor system or Barclays 
handling of complaints this is something for the Financial Conduct Authority to look into; it is 
not something for us to address when dealing with in an individual  complaint.
Ref: DRN18540574Also, while Barclays undoubtedly did not deal promptly  or efficiently with Mr Js complaint, 
either via Resolver  or to this service, complaints handling is not a regulated  activity.  So it is 
not for me to insist  that Barclays look into these apparent failures  or penalise  them.  
I recognise that Mr J is unlikely to be satisfied  with this decision but I need to reiterate that 
this services role is to reach a broadly fair and reasonable assessment of a complaint.  
Taking account of what Barclays  did wrong  and what, in my view,  it did not do wrong,  I am 
satisfied that £630  is a reasonable compensation figure. Unlike  Mr J (and Barclays) I have 
not reached this decision  based  on a detailed breakdown of an amount per mistake/error  but 
what I consider to be a reasonable figure overall.
my final decision
So for the reasons given, I uphold this complaint  to the extent outlined  above and instruct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr J £630  in total (including any amounts already  paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1854057