K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a residential mortgage  Mrs R holds with Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax. Shes unhappy  with how Halifax has treated  her since  the mortgage fell into 
arrears. In particular, she says it went back on a promise to capitalise arrears,  sent mail to 
an incorrect address, and began legal action  for possession of the mortgaged property. 
Mrs R is represented here by her son, Mr A.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 20 February 2019, I set out, with reasons, the basis  
upon which I considered the complaint should  fairly be resolved. The provisional decision is 
attached to, and forms part of, this final decision.
Halifax didnt have  anything further  to say. Mr A, on Mrs Rs behalf, confirmed receipt of the 
provisional decision, and told us his mother was ill and being  returned to the UK. He 
expressed his dissatisfaction with my provisional  decision said he would  provide  a more 
detailed response  by the due date of 6 March 2019, but only if I first issued a revised 
decision that he found more acceptable.  
We explained to Mr A that that isnt how our service works, and that if he had more  to say, 
he should provide it by 6 March 2019. Mr A did reply, but not with any new material  for us to 
consider. He repeated his dissatisfaction with my provisional decision and again asked that I 
issue another one, failing which hed send us additional documents  and audio files.
I explained that I dont amend my findings  simply because one of the parties doesnt like 
them, and that Id only consider doing  so if I was presented with new information that gave 
me a reason  to change my mind. I invited Mr A to submit the additional  material  hed talked 
about, and gave him until 14 March 2019 to do so. On 15 March 2019,  Mr A again  asked for 
more time, whilst he attended to his mothers travel arrangements and spoke to Halifax.
We agreed to allow him the intervening weekend to reply, and Mr A has provided a recording 
of a telephone conversation he had with Halifax on 15 March 2019. The recording runs to 
almost three and a half hours, albeit parts of that are on-hold intervals, and Ive listened to 
all of it. 
I need to be neutral between the parties, and Im mindful of the fact that Halifax has legal 
action on hold whilst we look at the complaint, and payments  arent being made. Weve  had 
the complaint  since the summer  of 2018, so Im satisfied both parties have  had ample time 
to say all they wish to say and provide all of the evidence they wish to rely on. Overall  
fairness therefore requires me to determine  the complaint without  any further delay.
my findings
Ill begin with some general observations.  
Mr A has said that once his latest  submission has been reviewed, hed like a discussion with 
me about the way forward for his mother.  Ive already explained that I don't think  that would 
be appropriate. It would,  in effect,  be giving  Mr A a one-sided  personal  hearing to press  
Mrs Rs case directly without the business  being  involved  and being able to contribute.  
Ref: DRN10816852On the rare occasions we conduct  a direct hearing,  it's at the discretion of an ombudsman, is 
called solely because he or she thinks it's essential to reaching  a fair outcome, and both 
parties to the complaint are present.  Anything  else would be procedurally  unfair, and 
introduce the risk of bias. Im satisfied this is a complaint I can fairly deal with on the basis of 
the evidence on file from all parties.
Ill deal first with the content of Mr As conversation  with Halifax on 15 March 2019. Theres 
an indication  that since the court hearing  in August 2018, Halifax may have continued to hold 
an incorrect address recorded  in its systems for correspondence, even though the court  
ordered it to change its records. Its clear from listening that Mr A is very frustrated  that one 
of the events at the heart to Mrs Rs complaint might  have been repeated subsequently.
However, that cant form part of what Im reviewing here. Firstly,  Im dealing  solely  with the 
complaint Mr A brought  to us in August 2018 on Mrs Rs behalf. Anything  thats  happened  
since would  have be a separate  complaint brought to us after Halifax has considered it and 
issued a final response. I can only consider  the content of the 15 March 2019  phone call 
where it relates to matters  that were  in the complaint to begin with and were  addressed  in 
my provisional decision.
The other observation  Id make is that we dont replicate the role of the courts.  If Mr A thinks 
Halifax has failed to comply with a court order regarding the address record, and as a result 
is in contempt of court, thats a matter that would need to be referred  back  to the court  in any 
event. 
We also dont deal with matters that are better  addressed  by other  agencies.  The points 
Mr A raises  about potential breaches of the General Data  Protection Regulations, and 
whether Halifax is potentially liable for fines, are a matter for the Information Commissioners  
Office. When Ive considered letters that have been  addressed to the wrong place, Ive 
focussed on the practical effect; i.e. whether any addressing  errors  have led to Mrs R being 
in the position she is right now.  Thats  the extent of my remit on this subject.
Returning to the underlying complaint; Ive considered all the available  evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Mr A says that Ive not addressed the complaint he brought  but instead engaged  in a 
cherry-picking exercise. Hes free to characterise my conclusions in those terms if he 
wishes, but the fact is that our rules  give me the discretion to decide where the crux of a 
complaint lies, and to focus on the issues that I consider to be material  to a fair outcome. I 
appreciate that Mr A thinks  otherwise, but as I explained in the provisional decision, Im not 
directed by either party in how I determine a complaint.
Responding to the points Mr A did make,  I dont  agree that my comments on the letting of 
the property amount to new guidelines or that Ive somehow  given Halifax  an idea. What  I 
described has been standard industry policy for many years. When  a lender grants  a 
residential mortgage, its after having  assessed  the risk on that basis  (i.e. that the borrower  
will occupy the mortgaged  property)  and the rates the lender  offers  reflect that risk. 
The risk associated with lending to someone who then lets the property out is generally  
perceived as being  higher, which is why a lender  will typically  confine borrowers whove 
done that (with or without  consent) to its standard variable rate (SVR)  or in some  cases 
add an additional  margin to the SVR.  
Ref: DRN10816853Mr A refers  to his mother having  the privilege of renting out her home. That privilege may be 
unfettered when  the property in question is unencumbered but when the property is subject 
to a mortgage, the right to rent it out is subject to the lenders mortgage conditions. Mr A 
rightly points out that Halifax hasnt previously objected to Mrs R renting out her home.  
But as I said in the provisional decision, thats not the same  as consenting. It simply means  
that instead of holding  Mrs R to the terms of the mortgage, its allowed her a concession. If 
Mr A thinks  the bank is legally prevented from refusing consent by the doctrine of promissory  
estoppel, thats an argument that requires testing  in court. 
Even if the house  hadnt been rented  out from time to time, theres  something  else to 
consider regarding lower  rates; the arrears history. I know this was substantial  component  of 
Mr As conversation with the bank on 15 March 2019 (which Ive already said isnt part of 
what Im reviewing here). But its also something he mentioned during the course of the 
complaint that I am reviewing, and Mr A took exception to the findings I made in my 
provisional decision. So its quite appropriate that I deal with it here,  at least in terms of the 
general position.
Mr A is mistaken in his belief that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  has ordered that 
lenders must automatically offer lower rates to borrowers in arrears.  No borrower is entitled 
to a lower rate; lenders  have to consider context and individual  circumstances in all cases.  
Most lenders, when  asked to provide a new rate to a borrower  with an arrears  history, 
require the arrears to be cleared in full and then the mortgage kept up to date and 
arrears- free for a minimum period  (a year is not untypical) before theyll  consider offering a 
new rate. 
Thats because most rate deals come with an early  repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage 
ends during the term of the deal.  If a borrower still couldnt afford the payment  under a new 
deal, they might still be at risk of the property being taken into possession  and then sold. If 
that happened, then the ERC clause would be activated resulting in an extra  amount being  
added to the closing balance on sale. 
So lenders  typically  guard against  that risk by insisting on an arrears-free period before 
considering a new rate deal. Thats what Halifax told Mr A on the phone  on 15 March 2019, 
and Im not minded to interfere with or otherwise second-guess  the business commercial  
judgement.
Mr A says by him offering  to guarantee the payments, Halifax can and should change  its 
usual policy  and offer the new rate now. That too is a matter for Halifax  to exercise its 
commercial judgement on. Mr A thinks having  him as guarantor would eliminate Halifaxs 
risk exposure, but the business seemingly doesnt share that view, at least not at present. 
For me to tell Halifax to offer a new rate now would  be for me to adopt  Mr As risk 
assessment and impose it on Halifax, and that would be most inappropriate.
Mr A has also taken  issue with my comments about the absence of any monthly payments 
on the mortgage since May 2018.  In his written response, Mr A said the payment 
arrangements between  Mrs R and Halifax are immaterial;  in effect, none of my business. 
But Im afraid thats not the case; for two reasons.
Firstly, when Im determining  a complaint, I dont just have to decide if a business  has made 
a mistake; I also have  to decide if the consumer is now in a worse position because  of that 
Ref: DRN10816854mistake. Ive found that Halifax did make mistakes  with the mailing  of some of the arrears  
correspondence. 
But those  mistakes arent the reason  Mrs R is now facing the potential loss of her property.  
Rather, its because Mrs R is contractually obliged to make monthly payments to the 
mortgage and hasnt done so since May 2018.  That didnt happen because Halifax  didnt 
send mail to the right place or refused to capitalise the arrears that already existed in 2017.
Secondly, describing the non-payment of the mortgage since May 2018  as an arrangement  
is to suggest that it was a mutually-acceptable  agreement reached between borrower and 
lender. Theres nothing in the evidence before me that suggests that a dialogue has taken 
place that led to Halifax agreeing to Mrs R not paying her mortgage. 
In any event, I think it possible  that the real reason behind  Mrs R not paying the mortgage 
since May 2018 may have been  revealed  by Mr A late on in his conversation with Halifax  on 
15 March 2019,  when he described his mother as having stuck  two fingers up at the bank in 
frustration. If thats a true interpretation  of his comment, then deliberately  withholding 
payments that are required under  the terms of a contract as a protest against how the lender 
is treating you is never a good idea. Whatever  frustration Mrs R (or Mr A on her behalf) may 
have felt, not making payments when  she was able to (if thats  what  happened) could only 
ever make things worse, not better.
Mr A hasnt made any new material arguments in response to my findings on the question of 
capitalisation. For completeness,  my conclusion remains that Halifax didnt guarantee it 
would happen  if Mrs R made six consecutive payments  when due, which Mrs R didnt do in 
any event. But the point is entirely  moot now because the arrears  status of 2017 has been 
completely overtaken by the further  arrears  that have accrued in 2018 and 2019.
Mr A says he now seeks a fair and equitable compromise that allows his mother to keep her 
house, maybe by him guaranteeing the mortgage payments. Its possible that may be 
achievable, but whether it is or isnt wont be something I decide  here.  Whether Mr A is able 
to reach  an agreement with Halifax now that allows him to secure a lower  rate combined with 
consent to let will ultimately be down to the negotiation process hes currently attempting  
with Halifax. 
If it isnt successful, Mrs R could bring  a new complaint.  What  Id say on that here is that yes, 
Halifax has an ongoing obligation to treat Mrs R fairly. But its important to remember  that the 
test of fair treatment is much broader  than simply agreeing to what  the customer (or the 
customers representative) wants. But I think Mr As efforts to negotiate  a settlement would 
be helped by him embracing two points:
firstly, that the new interest rate he is asking the bank to provide  isnt something to which 
Mrs R is legally entitled (unless  a court specifically ordered it in her case)  or Halifax  is 
required by regulation to provide; and 
as a consequence of her having made no payments since  May 2018, even if it wasnt 
intentionally, Mrs Rs negotiating position isnt one of strength.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from his submissions the intensity with which Mr A brought the 
complaint. He sees error or wrong-doing  in almost everything the bank has done (or not 
done). Thats a natural, subjective  reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Ref: DRN10816855Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or 
anomalies in what  both sides have said and done from time to time. Be that as it may,  I have  
to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things objectively,  sometimes  
taking a step back from the fine detail and instead focussing on the broader  picture.  Thats 
what Ive done.
Mrs R doesnt have  to accept my conclusions,  and if she doesnt, then neither she nor 
Halifax will be bound by my final decision. Subject  to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mrs Rs right to take legal action against  Halifax  over the subject matter  
of this complaint  wont have been  prejudiced by our consideration of her complaint.  
Mrs R wouldnt  necessarily have to initiate  court proceedings of her own.  If and when Halifax 
resumes possession proceedings, Mrs R (or  Mr A on her behalf) can, if she (or he) wishes,  
ask the court  to consider all of the arguments  that have been  presented here as part of her 
defence. The court will then be able, if it so chooses,  to take those  arguments  into account 
when deciding whether a fair outcome to the legal proceedings is that Halifax should  be 
granted possession.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award  against Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R (or Mr A on 
her behalf)  to accept  or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10816856CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a residential mortgage Mrs R holds with Bank of Scotland  plc trading as 
Halifax. Shes unhappy with how Halifax  has treated her since the mortgage fell into arrears. In 
particular, she says it went  back  on a promise  to capitalise arrears, sent mail to an incorrect address, 
and began legal action for possession  of the mortgaged property.
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented. No 
discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service we provide, and if I dont 
mention something,  it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral. Another  reason  I have left out a lot of 
the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying  the consumer  when my decision is published.
In early 2005, acting on a recommendation from a third party broker, which  Ill call V, Mrs R applied 
for a residential mortgage  with Halifax. Halifax  approved  the application  and it completed. The 
mortgage offer shows that Mrs R borrowed  £300,000 plus fees.  It was billed as a lifetime mortgage 
(that is, one that is repaid from the sale of the property after the borrowers death) but had a nominal  
term of 40 years. The monthly payment was interest-only.
In 2007, Mrs R changed  interest rate products  and, at Halifaxs recommendation, switched from 
lifetime to a 22-year term. Mrs R then borrowed a further £65,000, plus fees, in 2008,  again  on Vs 
recommendation. This was also on an interest-only  basis, with a 21-year  term to coincide with the 
main mortgage. Since 2009, Mr A has held power of attorney for his mother. Mrs R now lives abroad 
and Mr A has rented  out the mortgaged property from time to time.
In 2013, the mortgage fell into arrears,  and since  then,  Mr A and the bank have held discussions and 
agreed payment  arrangements. In May 2017 Mr A asked the bank about  the possibility  of the arrears 
being capitalised. The core of this dispute  is about what happened next.  
Mr A says Halifax agreed to capitalise the arrears if six consecutive monthly  payments were made. 
Halifax says it would need to see six consecutive monthly payments as a pre-condition for considering  
capitalisation. Also, whilst  six payments were made between May and October  2017,  the payment  for 
June 2017 was made  late, in July. Halifax decided Mrs R hadnt  met its criteria for capitalisation, and 
instead began litigation. 
Unfortunately, Halifax mixed  up the addresses for correspondence; it should have been writing to 
Mr A directly  but instead  sent some of its letters  about the proposed  litigation to the mortgaged  
property; the addresses are similar but not identical, and it meant Mr A was reliant on his mothers  
tenants passing  the mail to him. In March 2018, Halifax did write  to Mr As address  with details of the 
arrears and the risk of possession  Mrs R was now facing, and later that month,  it began  formal legal 
action.
Mr A contacted the bank on 27 April 2018 to complain; he told the bank the house was now up for 
sale and that his mother  was able to meet the monthly payments. He thought  Halifaxs  possession 
action was wrong  and unnecessary in the circumstances, but it refused to put things  on hold. Mr A 
Ref: DRN10816857referred the complaint  to us; Halifax  agreed to put legal  action on hold whilst  we considered the 
complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint,  but wasnt  persuaded it should be upheld. But he 
did suggest  that there be a six-week moratorium  on legal  action  to begin  once our consideration of 
the complaint was at an end  during which the parties should try to re-engage and find a mutually-
agreed position that would avoid the prospect  of a possession order.
Neither party  agreed  to the investigators recommendation. Mr A reiterated all of the reasons why he 
considered Halifax had treated  his mother unfairly; meanwhile, Halifax  observed that the arrears had 
grown steadily worse whilst the complaint  had been with us. With no prospect of a rapprochement 
between the parties, the case has come to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes  between businesses  and their customers. In doing  that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  on how we investigate  a complaint. We 
conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without interference  from anyone  else.  But in 
doing so, we have to work  within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit  those  rules give 
us
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit  is to take an overview and decide 
whats fair in the round.
Ill begin with the question of capitalisation. Mr A has effectively characterised what  Halifax said in 
April 2017 about capitalising his mothers mortgage  arrears  as a guarantee. Hes free to think  of it in 
those terms,  but the reality is capitalisation is a concession, and an onerous one at that. Lenders 
typically have strict qualifying criteria before  theyll  consider capitalising arrears,  so Halifaxs position 
that six consecutive months of regular  payments  was a pre-condition  of it considering Mrs Rs request 
for such a concession is quite reasonable, and not at all unusual.
Such things  are a matter  of commercial judgement for a business, and we wont generally interfere 
with that. I see no reason to do so here; rather, what I have to consider next is whether Mrs R actually 
met Halifaxs pre-condition.  Its common ground that six payments were  made, but its also common 
ground that they werent all made  when  they should have been.  The payment due in June 2017 
wasnt paid until the following month. 
That might  seems a minor  lapse, and isolation  perhaps it is. But this didnt happen  in isolation.  
Everything has a context and here, the late payment occurred against the backdrop of a person  with 
long standing  arrears who was trying to persuade her lender that her circumstances were  now 
sufficiently stable that she should be considered  favourably  for capitalisation. Viewed  in that light, 
I dont think its unfair to say Mrs R didnt meet the pre-condition for Halifax  to consider capitalising her 
arrears. 
Ive next considered if it was fair of Halifax to begin  legal proceedings. Again, its worth providing 
some context. At the time Halifax started legal action, around five years had passed since the 
mortgage had gone into arrears. Its a common misconception that the rules  of mortgage regulation  
require lenders  to provide  forbearance. What they actually require lenders to do is consider each set 
of individual circumstances fairly  to decide if forbearance  should be provided; the two things arent  the 
same. 
Ref: DRN10816858Wed expect  a lender to consider offering help to consumers  going through  a temporary problem, 
especially in situations where  it can be seen their situation  is likely to improve.  The difficulty here is 
that Mrs Rs apparent difficulty in getting  on top of her arrears hasnt been temporary. One of the 
fundamental principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the right to enforce its 
security to recover money owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable and inappropriate for me to 
remove that right from Halifax  in a decision on Mrs Rs complaint, regardless of her situation. 
Im aware that some  of the correspondence  from Halifax was sent to the mortgaged  property when  it 
should have gone to Mr As address. One such letter  was the one dated  18 May 2017 confirming the 
new payment  arrangement (which, incidentally, emphasised the importance that payments must  be 
made on time). 
Mr As explained that although theyre near each other, he couldnt  necessarily  rely on the tenant to 
pass mail on to him. As a starting point, lenders have a regulatory duty to send correspondence  
relating to possible  legal action to the mortgaged property  address, so Id be slow to say Halifax 
shouldnt have done that. Rather, its omission was not to send  copies of all such  letters  to Mr A as 
well. And whilst I entirely take his point about not being  able to rely on the tenant to pass mail onto 
him, that doesnt  mean none of the mail was passed to him.
Mr As comments notwithstanding, clearly he was aware of the situation by early  March  2018.  So 
I then have  to consider  if his not knowing sooner has made  the situation worse. To put it another way, 
I have to decide if Mrs Rs current position is worse than it would have been  if all of its litigation 
correspondence had been  copied  to Mr A at his own address. Taking  into account  everything that 
happened at the time, and has happened since, I dont find that to be the case.
Although Halifax wrote  to Mr A on 6 March  2018, it seems from the available evidence that it didnt 
hear from him until some  seven weeks  later. By that time, the March 2018 payment had been missed, 
prompting Halifax to start the legal  action. The contact Mr A made  at the end of April 2018 didnt result 
in a payment  being made, so that months instalment was missed  too. A payment was made  in May 
2018, and thats the last payment Halifax has received. 
At the time of writing, eight months  have  passed without a payment to the mortgage,  during which  
time the arrears have risen to almost £23,000. Despite this, Halifax has held recovery  action in 
abeyance whilst we considered the complaint. It may be that Mrs R simply hasnt been  able to make 
the payments; and if thats the case, it largely validates Halifaxs  decision to start possession 
proceedings rather  than let matters drift. But if the payments have been deliberately  withheld, then 
I cant  emphasise how much Mrs R has compromised her position.
The idea from our investigator for there to be a six-week moratorium was proposed  in good faith, and 
with good intentions. But that moment  has now passed; it seems  to me that this dispute will now only 
be concluded by the parties coming to court in possession proceedings brought  by Halifax.
The alternative is for the mortgage to be repaid in full, from the sale of the mortgaged  property.  But 
theres a degree  of uncertainty  and delay  in both of those.  Halifax doesnt have to wait indefinitely for 
Mr A to sell the house  and its expecting an awful lot of the bank to say it should  simply  accept the 
uncertainty and wait. 
Theres one other point.  Its important here to remember  that Halifax lent Mrs R money in 2005 
believing that she intended  to live in the mortgaged property. Initially  she did so, but for some  time 
now, the propertys been let out to tenants for an income, whilst  Mrs R has lived abroad.  And thats 
not the basis  on which  Halifax  lent her the money. The conditions of the mortgage were  for Mrs R to 
meet, and thats something Ive kept in mind when deciding whats fair here. 
I take Mr As point that Halifax hasnt objected to Mrs R renting the house out, but thats not quite the 
same as consenting to it. Its also worth keeping in mind that throughout the life of the mortgage, 
Halifax has charged  Mrs R a residential  rate of interest. Mr A argues that his mother  has been denied 
Ref: DRN10816859a new interest  rate deal, but those rates are for residential borrowers,  not those treating  the 
mortgaged property  as an investment for income  purposes. 
Halifax could have quite  reasonably charged a fee for allowing Mrs R to let it out, and perhaps even a 
higher interest rate. Mrs R has therefore gained  a financial  advantage from Halifax, in effect, turning a 
blind eye to what she was doing. The other point to make  regarding Mrs R letting out the mortgaged 
property rather than living  in it is that she isnt at risk of being made  homeless by Halifaxs  actions.
In summary, whilst Halifaxs  action to take possession of the mortgaged  property may be highly 
unwelcome for Mrs R, its not unfair, and whilst Halifax  has made some mistakes,  they arent  the 
reason Mrs R faces the very real risk of losing her property.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 6 March  2019,  or sooner if both parties confirm 
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party 
need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1081685