K820x#14Complaint
Mr P says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
Background and summary to complaint
Mr P bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post. 
At the time,  Mr P was employed as an engineering manager. He told us he was entitled to 
sick pay but we havent  been told how long he would  receive this benefit for. We tried to 
clarify this but Mr Ps representative was unable  to provide any more information. Mr P has 
also told us he would  have been entitled to redundancy  pay but he didnt have any other  
means of repaying  his credit card should  he be unable to work.  Mr P has said he was in 
good health at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for life, accident,  sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ps credit card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.  For claims under  the life 
section, it would repay the outstanding  balance up to a maximum of £15,000. At the time, it 
cost 75p per £100  of the monthly  outstanding  balance. The premium would continue to have 
to be paid during  a successful claim and it did attract interest. 
Barclays has told us that the credit  card account  closed in 2006.
Mr Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ps representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ps representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mr P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr P and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
Ref: DRN10508622The information Mr P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr P disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Relevant considerations  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Barclays, selling insurance  at this time:
Ref: DRN10508623The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ps case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ps complaint. 
Key questions   
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Mr P sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN10508624-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr P and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
Did Mr P know he had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Ive been given a copy of the application form Mr P completed at the time and, whilst the 
copy of the document is not very clear, I can see that this includes a section about PPI. In 
this section there is one tick box  I think its more likely than not this box was to agree to 
take out the PPI. I can see that the box has been  ticked on the form and Mr P has signed the 
form which suggests he agreed with everything that had been entered.  If Mr P didnt want  to 
take out the PPI he could  have left the box blank.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr P knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
Did Barclays provide  advice?
Mr P doesnt  recall if he received advice. Barclays says it didnt provide advice during this 
sale. Looking at what happened when Barclays sold Mr P the PPI, I think  its more  likely that 
Barclays didnt provide advice.
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr P. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr P to make an informed  
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
The information
Barclays has provided us with Mr Ps application  form  showing that PPI had been selected.  
It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says he wouldve received, including  the 
policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied  to 
policies like Mr Ps. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr P at the time,  I dont think Barclays  gave Mr P the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. As the copy of the application form is poor quality it isnt clear 
what information it gave  to Mr P about the PPI. But I think its unlikely Mr P would have 
agreed to take it out without at least having a broad understanding of the cover it provided   
i.e. life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think its unlikely Mr P would have  
thought it was free.
Ref: DRN10508625But it was Barclayss responsibility  to draw to Mr Ps attention  the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr P, including the need to maintain premiums during a claim  
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Barclays  adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think Barclays gave Mr P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ps representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
What effect did Barclays shortcomings  have  on Mr P? To what extent did Mr P suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr P. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr P suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not he would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done  things properly. 
Mr P says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
Ref: DRN10508626As this was a non-advised sale, Mr P had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr P chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr P thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr P has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr P ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that Barclays  didnt make clear  the on-going cost information.  So while Mr P didnt  
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr P thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr P knew  about 
before the start date or for which  he received advice, treatment or counselling from 
any doctor in the 12 months immediately before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr P 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr P be unable  to 
do his own job or any paid work which his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy excluded claims for unemployment  unless  Mr P had been in continuous 
employment for 12 months prior to the unemployment. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr P pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr P from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr P didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr P 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
Ref: DRN10508627If Mr P had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job but 
also unable  to do any paid work  which, in the insurers view, his experience, education or 
training might reasonably qualify him to do, it might have played  into his thinking about what  
he would  do. And I accept  it may have given  him pause for thought  although given Mr Ps 
circumstances and the limited other means  he had to make his repayments if he wasnt  
working, on balance,  I still think he would have been  interested in taking  out the cover.  
The policy excluded claims for unemployment  if Mr P hadnt  been in continuous employment 
for 12 months prior to the unemployment leading to the claim. But I dont think  this would 
have affected  his decision to take out the policy. I say this because Mr P had already been 
employed continuously with the same employer for a year prior to taking out the PPI. So I 
dont think Mr P would  have thought it likely  that he would  have  a break  in his employment  
which would have meant he would be unable to make a claim.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr P would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mr Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr P would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr P 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr P in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN10508628That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Mr P compensation, as that would put him 
in a better position  than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should  have  
done. 
Im also aware that Mr P thinks Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclays statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mr P, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Barclays negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr P and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr P in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1050862