K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained that Bank  of Ireland  (UK) Plc (BoI) hasnt  properly paid her after she 
made a claim under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
background
Mrs S, along  with her partner Mr F, bought membership  of a leisure club from Business A in 
January 2016.  The membership cost £10,550 and Mrs S paid £538.62 toward that using her 
Post Office  branded credit card that was run by BoI. 
Mrs S said that the membership didnt provide her what she was promised. She thought 
shed be able to book holidays and other services at a discount,  but she says that wasnt  the 
case. In 2018  Business A closed and some  of its directors  were subsequently convicted of 
criminal offences relating to the company. So Mrs S thought the benefits  of Business A 
membership had been misrepresented to her and she made  a claim under s.75 CCA.
BoI accepted the basis of Mrs S claim,  but it didnt offer to pay everything claimed. It offered 
to refund what Mrs S had paid on her card, but not what Mr F had paid by bank transfer. BoI 
also apologised for delays in dealing with the claim and offered an additional £200 for the 
trouble caused.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought BoI needed to pay more. 
They didnt think s.75 CCA limited  BoIs  liability in the way BoI thought it did. So they asked it 
to pay the cost of the bank transfer  too, plus add interest to all payments.
BoI disagreed and asked for the complaint to be considered  again  by an ombudsman.
I considered the complaint and issued  a provisional decision, setting out my initial  
conclusions on the complaint. I thought  the complaint should be upheld, but for slightly 
different reasons than our investigator  gave. So I invited both parties  to provide any further 
evidence or arguments  before I issued a final decision. An extract of that decision reads:
When Mrs S brought  the complaint to our service, she provided a form signed by 
both her and Mr F. But the claim that has been  made against BoI can only be brought 
in Mrs S name,  as she is BoIs customer. So although I am satisfied  Mr F is aware of 
the complaint  and the remedy sought, I will refer to Mrs S throughout.
In resolving this complaint, I think it is helpful  to set out the agreements between the 
parties, what the law says and then what  I think is a fair outcome to this complaint.
The agreements between the parties
Mrs S had a Post Office branded credit card, which was run by BoI. So when Mrs S 
presented the card,  and payment was taken, BoI effectively  lent money to Mrs S to 
pay for the goods  and services she wanted.
Mrs S and Mr F signed  an agreement with Business  B, which  was part of the 
Business A Group. The agreement is titled [Business A] SUBSCRIBERS  
AGREEMENT and it describes Mr F as Client  1 and Mrs S as Client  2. The 
amount due is £10,550 with a deposit of £1,055 to be paid on 12 January 2016 and 
the balance of £9,495  to be paid by 6 February  2016. It says the first payment  is to 
Ref: DRN16838292be made by credit card and the second by bank transfer. Mrs S and Mr F signed  this 
document on 12 January 2016. 
On the same  day a sum of £538.62  was paid to a company associated with 
Business A using  Mrs S credit card. Ive also seen a payment of £9,495 being paid 
by Mr F by bank transfer. Mrs S says that she also paid cash  towards the deposit, but 
she doesnt have  any documentation to show this. 
What the law says
The key provision that I need to consider is s.75(1) CCA. That states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 
12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction  financed by the agreement, any 
claim against the supplier  in respect of a misrepresentation  or breach of 
contract, he shall have  a like claim against  the creditor, who,  with the supplier,  
shall accordingly be jointly and severally  liable to the debtor.
Neither party has been able to provide me with any court judgments that explain how 
this provision would apply to a case such as Mrs S.
The parties positions
Mrs S has claimed that she took out Business  A membership based on a 
misrepresentation about how it worked  and what it offered. She has said that under 
s.75 CCA,  BoI are liable to answer a claim based  on misrepresentation and that 
means it needs to pay to her, with interest, everything that was paid toward the 
membership.
BoI has said that it upheld  the claim, but under s.75 CCA it is only liable to cover  the 
payments made by its card holder, Mrs S. It says that any money paid by Mr F wasnt 
done so under a debtor-creditor-supplier  (DCS) agreement involving BoI, so it cant  
be liable  to refund those  payments. BoI noted  that Mrs S wouldnt be able to make a 
claim herself  for what Mr F paid,  nor would he be able to claim what  she had paid. Its 
possible they could  claim together for everything  that was paid,  but BoI only had to 
consider Mrs S part of the claim. In other  words,  s.75 CCA cant extend its liability  to 
Mr F who is not its customer.
BoI also noted  that on the agreement  with Business A Mr F is listed as Client 1 and 
Mrs S as Client 2, so it questioned whether  there was any liability  to Mrs S if she 
wasnt the principle  person  on the contract.
BoI has accepted  that the agreement and network of arrangements  set out above 
meant that s.75 CCA  applied  to Mrs S transaction. And its accepted that Mrs S has 
a valid claim for misrepresentation. So in this decision, I wont consider those issues 
further.
My provisional findings on the legal position
I think the starting point  is to set out what Mrs S and Mr F agreed to. They agreed, 
together, to buy membership from Business A for £10,550. That meant on one side 
of the agreement was Mrs S and Mr F and on the other was Business B, part of the 
Ref: DRN16838293Business A Group. I cant see that the agreement set out that Mrs S and Mr F were 
buying different  parts  of the membership or that they were  entitled to different  things,  
depending on how much  each paid. I think this was an agreement  where  Mrs S and 
Mr F bought  membership jointly, so they had to pay the sums due together  and 
Business A provided them joint membership, so each of them were entitled to use all 
of the membership benefits. 
I dont think it mattered  that one person was described as Client  1 and the other 
Client 2, as I cant see that meant the contract was only with the first named person 
or that each were  entitled to different things  under  the contract.  Instead  I think they 
were labelled in this way so that their different personal details could  be recorded 
separately by Business  A, such as Mobile  1, Mobile 2, etc.
Having considered everything, I think Mrs S and Mr F could  bring a claim together  
against Business  A for misrepresentation,  or each of them could have  brought  the 
same claim individually. But any damages paid out would  be treated as concluding 
the entire claim, even if only paid to one party  Business A wouldnt have to account 
to Mrs S and Mr F separately  or twice. Its beyond the scope of this decision for me to 
say how any damages should be divided between Mrs S and Mr F.
Ive thought about how this would apply to the wording of s.75(1) CCA, and I think  it 
means BoI are responsible for the whole of the claim. Mrs S made a payment using 
her card and its not in dispute that payment gave rise to a DCS agreement or that 
Mrs S has a valid claim against Business A for misrepresentation. 
I dont think the fact that Mrs S only used her card to pay for part of the contract  price  
is a bar to her making  a claim under s.75 CCA   this isnt something BoI has argued. 
The wording  of s.75(1) CCA simply talks about a transaction financed by the 
agreement. It doesnt say the entirety  of the payment for the contract  has to be paid 
using credit and, if I thought that was a necessary  precondition  for a s.75 CCA claim 
to be made,  I think that would have been made clear in the Act. In fact, in the Report 
of the Committee on Consumer Credit chaired by Lord Crowther in 1971,  which  led to 
the CCA,  it said at paragraph 6.6.28:
We therefore recommend that where  the price  payable under a consumer  
sale agreement is advanced  wholly or in part by a connected lender that 
lender should  be liable for misrepresentations relating to the goods made by 
the seller in the course of antecedent negotiations, and for defects  in title, 
fitness and quality of the goods. (emphasis my own)
So I think, as Mrs S used  her BoI credit card to partly  fund the membership, that 
means she is entitled to make a claim against BoI under  s.75 CCA.
Nor do I think BoIs liability  is limited  to just refunding what  Mrs S paid. Under s.75 
CCA, BoI is jointly liable with Business A for a like claim, although  the liability is 
limited to the scope  of any claim against  Business A for a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation. So BoI wouldnt be liable if Mrs S had a different type of claim. But 
the CCA  doesnt  say that any claim against a creditor is only limited  to the amount 
borrowed by a debtor and if I thought  that was the intention  of the Act, I think it would 
have been made clear.  I think  the CCA is clear that a creditor is liable  for a like claim 
and therefore  for any award recoverable under that claim.
Ref: DRN16838294I do think there may be an element of confusion due to what  Mrs S has asked BoI to 
pay. That is because  she has made  a claim for misrepresentation and the normal  
remedy for that is the rescission of the contract  and, in Mrs S case,  that means 
getting back what was paid to enter into the contract. So in one sense,  Mrs S is 
asking for a refund and BoI has agreed  to pay that. But I dont think a simple refund 
of the amount Mrs S borrowed from BoI to enter into an agreement with Business  A 
would be the normal level of compensation for a misrepresentation claim. I think  a 
court would award everything that was paid to enter into the contact, with 
compensatory interest.
What I think is fair and reasonable
As explained above, I must take into account the law, but I dont need to follow it if I 
thought it led to an answer  that wasnt fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the complaint.  Ive said why I think following the law means its likely BoI would be 
liable for the whole of Mrs S claim, but I also think it would be fair to follow  the law in 
this case.
The CCA puts in place  a joint liability between a creditor  and supplier for a suppliers 
misrepresentation or breach of contact. On any view, this is an important  and far 
reaching piece  of consumer protection, meaning consumers are able to pursue 
remedies against  their credit card issuers where it may be more difficult  for them to 
pursue the suppliers. The practical effect of s.75 CCA shifts  the task of getting the 
supplier to pay monetary  compensation from the consumer/debtor to the creditor.  
And it is understandable  why this leads  to a fair outcome, as often  the arrangements 
in place between  creditor and supplier means  it is significantly  easier  to reclaim 
funds.
It's possible BoI could  recover something  from Business  A or its bankers through the 
card scheme arrangements, but its not my role to decide on that point. But I do need 
to decide whether its fair for Mrs S to have the levels  of consumer protection that she 
is entitled to under s.75 CCA. And for the reasons  set out above,  I think  it is fair to 
impose a joint liability.
Other matters
I can see that BoI didnt  deal with the initial complaint within  the eight weeks  that it 
should take to look into complaints. But it did respond shortly after that time and I 
cant see that Mrs S was caused significant  trouble by this delay. Given  all of the 
circumstances, I think  BoIs offer of £200 is fair.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im required  to determine complaints with regard to what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And when doing so, Im required by DISP  
3.6.4 R of the FCA Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
Ref: DRN16838295(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate)  what  [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  industry  
practice at the relevant time.
Both parties  contacted me to say they had nothing further to add to my provisional decision.  
Therefore I see no reason  to depart from my provisional findings.
For the reasons  set out above I direct BoI to make  the following  payments:
Pay Mrs S £538.62,  plus interest.  The interest  is at the rate of 8% per year simple, 
and should be paid from the date Mrs S used her credit  card to the date BoI make  
payment.
Pay Mrs S £9,495 plus interest. The interest  is at the rate of 8% per year simple,  and 
should be paid from the date of transfer  to the date BoI make payment.
Pay Mrs S £200 for the trouble caused by the delay in responding to her claim.
I make  no award for the money Mrs S said she paid by cash. Although I accept  she 
remembers paying something,  I dont have sufficient evidence to conclude how much was 
paid or to whom.  So I dont think it would be right to tell BoI to pay anything beyond what  Ive 
set out above.
I havent seen  any evidence that Mrs S or Mr F has made any other claim, either directly to 
Business A or through any other consumer protection rights  Mr F may have. But if BoI make  
a payment to Mrs S, then it may be that Mrs S or Mr F arent able to make  any further 
claims. I cant  give any advice to Mrs S about this, but she might wish to speak to her 
representatives about her position before deciding whether to accept  my decision.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs S complaint  against Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc and direct it pays  compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2021.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1683829