K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI), and life and critical 
illness policy  taken out in 2009.  Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold 
him the policy.  
Mr H bought a Total  Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) alongside a mortgage in 2009. TMPP 
can be split into sections   Mortgage  Repayments  Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover 
and critical illness cover. Mr H took out the PPI elements as well and the life and critical 
illness cover.  Mr H is complaining about  the whole  policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. 
Ill explain  why. 
This policy was taken out in a meeting. Mr H feels strongly that the lack of documentation 
available from the sale shouldnt result in his case being rejected. Financial businesses are 
only requested to keep  documents for six years, so its not surprising there  is little paperwork 
available from the sale. But due to the lack of paperwork available  from the sale Ive had to 
decide whats likely to have happened  based on the information I do have. I have seen  a 
copy of Mr Hs mortgage offer and on it is a section related to insurances  which  says you do 
not need to buy any insurance  through Halifax. So I think  Mr H wouldve known the PPI was 
optional. On balance  based on everything Ive seen I think  its more likely Halifax made it 
clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the policy and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember this.
Mr H also says that he was pressured  into taking the policy  by Halifax.  But Mr H hasnt given 
us much detail about what Halifax said or did to make him feel this way. Pressure can be 
subjective, and what one person thinks is pressure another may not. Without more  
persuasive evidence  I dont think its likely Halifax pressured him into taking the policy.
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr H so it had to check  that the policy was right for him 
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was.
The TMPP provided Mr H with life cover. Mr H was taking  out borrowing secured on his 
home and for not an inconsiderable sum.  The long-term nature of the debt, also meant is 
was likely Mr Hs circumstances could change over time. So taking all of this into account I 
dont think it was wrong for Halifax to recommend the life element of the policy. So I think Mr 
H had a need for the life cover and it was suitable  for his needs.
The TMPP also provided Mr H with critical illness cover.  This wouldve paid Mr H a lump  sum 
of £74,755 if he was diagnosed with a serious  illness or had a serious  accident.  Looking at 
Mr Hs circumstances in 2009 I think hed find this payment useful  if he had become 
seriously ill. The policy wouldve allowed Mr H to clear his mortgage and able to concentrate 
on his recovery without  worrying about his mortgage  repayments. So I think  Halifax made  a 
suitable recommendation that he take out critical illness  cover.
Ref: DRN12705982Turning to the PPI element of the TMPP - this provided a monthly benefit if Mr H became too 
unwell to work or lost his job. I think the PPI that Halifax  advised Mr H to take out was right 
for him.
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. Mr H says he wouldnt have received any sick pay 
from his employer. He says he had some  other  means of making his repayments. But the 
PPI wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months  if he was unable  to work because  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. So I think he wouldve found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But it appears he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  It follows that I dont think Mr H has lost out as a result of anything  
Halifax has done wrong. 
I note Mr H is also unhappy about what happened later in the policy,  but Ive only looked  at 
whether the policy  was mis-sold 2009 in this complaint. And, for the reasons Ive explained I 
dont think it was mis-sold. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1270598