K820x#14complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc made an error which allowed a third party  
access to a bank  account shed set up for her daughter. The funds were later withdrawn by 
the third party.
background
Miss M opened a bank  account with Bank of Scotland for her daughter. Some  time later  
Miss M visited  the branch but was told she was not named as a trustee on the account and 
was refused access to the account.  
Miss M complained and Bank of Scotland said it would put the error right and make sure 
Miss M was added as a trustee on the account  and the third party removed. It paid Miss M 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  its error  had caused and £7 to cover the cost of 
phone calls she had to make to sort the problem out.
But then later on in the year £532.41  was withdrawn  by the third party. Miss M complained to 
Bank of Scotland again. It explained  that when  it had made changes to how the accounts 
were held on its system, it had accidently reverted the account back  into the name  of third 
party whod been incorrectly  named  on the account originally. Miss M also said that the 
service given in the branch had been  poor and the staff had been rude to her.
Bank of Scotland upheld the complaint, refunded  the withdrawn £532.41 and offered to 
cover lost interest. It also paid Miss M an additional  £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. And apologised for the poor service given,  it said it had also given feedback  to the 
branch Miss M had visited.
Miss M remained  unhappy and raised a complaint with this service.  She didnt feel the 
compensation paid was enough and was very unhappy about  her daughters  bank account  
and the data within being accessible  to a third party.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and explained  that she felt that Bank of Scotland  
had as close as possible put Miss M back into the position she wouldve been in, if the error 
hadnt occurred.  And she felt that Bank of Scotlands  offer adequately compensated Miss M 
for the distress and convenience caused.  In terms of data breaches the investigator 
explained that if Miss M wanted this considered further shed have to refer to the Information 
Commissioners Office  (ICO).
Miss M didnt agree with our investigator. In summary she said:
The compensation paid of £507 for two errors  was measly
Her and her daughters confidentiality was breached on two occasions which  the 
investigator didnt  mention
Bank of Scotlands attitude towards her in branch and on the phone  was disgusting
Human error could  be put down for one mistake but even after the matter  had been  
brought to its attention the error  wasnt fixed
Bank of Scotland had told her that because the money would be refunded and 
compensation would be paid, it didnt  matter that a third party had gained
Ref: DRN16145462my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can understand why Miss M is upset and unhappy with what happened.  
And Bank of Scotland did fail to rectify its error  properly when it became aware  of what  had 
happened following  Miss Ms initial complaint.
The role of this service is to consider complaints impartially on a fair and reasonable basis.  If 
we think a businesss error has caused  a customer a loss, our aim is to put the customer 
back into the position as close as possible as they wouldve been  if the error  had not 
occurred. We also consider the impact any error  has had on a customer  and whether 
compensation should be paid for the trouble and upset caused.  Each  case is considered  on 
its own merits but we do have guidelines that we refer to when deciding upon an amount.
Its not in dispute  that Bank  of Scotland made  an error here. But what does appear to be in 
dispute is the amount of compensation that Bank  of Scotland should pay Miss M.
Bank of Scotland has refunded Miss M the money  that was withdrawn by the third party and 
offered to make up any loss interest between the money being withdrawn and the refund.  
And Bank of Scotland also reimbursed Miss M for the telephone calls she had to make  to it. 
So in terms  of financial loss Miss M and her daughter havent lost out.
So whats  left to consider is what represents  a fair and reasonable payment for the distress 
and inconvenience  Bank of Scotlands  error has caused. In total, Bank  of Scotland have paid 
Miss M £500 for this, £100  on the original occurrence and then an additional £400 when the 
money was withdrawn.
Again its not in dispute that Bank  of Scotland made  errors that it shouldnt  have and its 
agreed that the service it gave to Miss M wasnt good enough.  I know  that Miss M is very 
unhappy and whilst  we arent the right organisation to look into the data breach part of this 
complaint, Ive considering the impact  that this has had on Miss M in terms of the distress  
and inconvenience  caused. But in considering the circumstances  of this case  and our 
approach to awards, I think the offer that Bank  of Scotland made  is fair and reasonable.
I know that Miss M thinks  that what Bank  of Scotland has paid isnt enough but I think its 
above what we would  generally  award in these circumstances, so I wont be making  any 
further award. Bank of Scotland shouldve put things right first time, it didnt and thats why it 
made the additional award of £400.  Whilst I can understand that it was upsetting for Miss M 
that the money was withdrawn, it was refunded quickly and Miss M hasnt lost out because 
of the error. I appreciate  that Miss M is upset that a third party  took the money  out of the 
account but what happened to the money  that was withdrawn  by the third party is up to Bank 
of Scotland and the third party to sort out.
As it seems that Bank of Scotland  has already  refunded the money  and paid Miss M the 
compensation it had offered, I dont think it needs  to do anymore to put things right. I note 
that it has offered  to also pay any lost interest  but it required Miss M to call in and confirm  
she wished to do this. Bank of Scotland has said this offer remains.
Ref: DRN16145463my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1614546