K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains that hes experienced problems logging in to his savings account with Atom  
Bank PLC.
Background
Mr M took out a fixed saver account with Atom Bank. The account is based  on a mobile  
app. But Mr M has complained that hes had problems logging into the app on a number of 
occasions. And hes explained  that its frustrating he has to reset his app and log in fully 
when it fails. Because of this Mr M would like to withdraw his funds and close  his account.
Atom Bank  has explained  that Mr M took out a fixed term savings account, so he cant 
withdraw his money  unless there  were  specific  reasons to do so, for example financial 
difficulties. It also explained that when Mr M hasnt logged  in for a while, its platform requires 
additional security  and may require Mr M to add his device again due to updates.  So, it didnt 
uphold his complaint. Mr M referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator felt the terms of the account were made clear,  so Atom Bank was 
reasonable when it said Mr M couldnt withdraw his funds. But the adjudicator also explained 
that Mr M experienced  problems logging in on more  occasions than were reasonable. So, 
they recommended Atom  Bank pays Mr M £75 compensation for the frustration this has 
caused.
Mr M disagreed. He explained that he still experiences some problems with the app and 
wants to withdraw his funds from the savings account. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint and issue a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
decision as our adjudicator, for similar reasons.
Its clear that the app hasnt been working  for Mr M in the way that he expected it to, in that 
hes had occasions  where hes not been able to log in until he resets it. Ive seen the system 
logs showing  when his log-ins have been  successful or when they have failed. Im pleased to 
see that when  there  were  problems, it wasnt too long until Mr M was then able to actually 
log in. So, I think he was able to see his account balance.  As hes got a fixed  term savings 
account, the app is there for him to view his balance. And hes been  able to do this, so I cant 
agree that the account isnt fit for purpose.
But I do think the amount  of times  his log-ins failed was unreasonable. There were  at least 
23 failed attempts to log in over the course  of nine months. And although he was able to log-
in eventually each  time,  I think  the problems wouldve caused him frustration.  Mr M has also 
said that hes had more recent occasions where  the app tells him its too popular so isnt 
working properly. So, I think  Atom does need to pay him some  compensation for the 
frustration this has caused. I agree with our adjudicator  that £75 is fair compensation for this. 
Because although it is frustrating, Atom Bank gives customers other ways of checking their 
balance over the telephone, and Mr M was able to log in shortly  after the failed attempts. 
Mr M is also aware that his money  is in the account for a fixed term, so I think  the impact  of 
Ref: DRN14479662not seeing his balance  for a day is minimised as he didnt have to make  any transactions  
from the account.
I know that Mr M would  like to withdraw his funds, but I dont think it would be reasonable to 
allow him to do this. The terms of the account are clear  that funds are only available at the 
end of the fixed term  unless  Mr M is in financial hardship. Mr M has confirmed that his 
financial situation hasnt  changed, he is just unhappy with the app. So, in this situation, I 
dont think it would be reasonable to ask Atom Bank to break the terms of its contract  with Mr 
M.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Atom Bank PLC must pay Mr M £75 
compensation for the trouble and upset  it has caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1447966