complaint
Mr L complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance Plc, trading as Tesco Bank  allowed a third 
party company to contact  him, despite  opting  out of receiving  any form of marketing from it.
background
Mr L says he set his account settings so that he doesnt receive  any form of marketing from 
Tesco. He says despite that he received a call on 13 December 2018  from a company 
instructed by Tesco carrying out market  research. Mr L says he told the company that he 
didnt appreciate the call but received another call from the same company on 
15 December 2018 that he didnt answer.  
Mr L would  like an explanation from Tesco  about  what took place as well as compensation 
for the nuisance and inconvenience the calls caused  him.
Tesco says the calls were  about  market research  and were not marketing calls. It says that 
its entitled to contact its customers in this way even though they may have  opted  out of 
receiving marketing communication. Tesco accepts that Mr L should  not have received the 
second call and has apologised for that and paid him £25 for the inconvenience  caused. Its 
also agreed to remove  Mr Ls details from any future market research it may carry out.
Mr L didnt accept that response  from Tesco  and brought  his complaint to us. Our 
adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought overall Tesco was entitled to use Mr Ls 
personal data in this way, as it was not a marketing call but market research. The adjudicator  
thought Tesco had acted in line with its privacy notice and had fairly apologised for the 
second call as well as fairly agreeing not to contact Mr L in this way again.
Mr L doesnt accept  that view and has asked that it be reconsidered.  He says Tesco didnt 
make it clear  that by opting out of any form of marketing that he would still be contacted  
about market  research. He also says that to the lay person there is little difference between 
the two and that information should  be made clearer and not hidden in small print.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr L will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about whats  happened. I also appreciate 
that Mr L has been waiting some  time for a final decision in this case and I apologise for that 
delay.
Ive looked at that Mr Ls account terms and conditions as well as Tescos  privacy notice 
about the use of personal data. Having done so Im satisfied that Tesco  makes,  what I think 
is, a clear distinction between the use of personal data for marketing use and for market 
research. Im also satisfied that Tesco makes  clear that it may use personal  data for market 
research but that any marketing  communication  will only take place with permission.  So
I find that Tesco didnt  make a mistake  by allowing the third party company to contact Mr L 
on 13 December 2018 as Im satisfied this was a market research call and not a marketing 
call.
I appreciate that Mr L says that to the layman, opting out of marketing  communication means 
no calls at all. But for the reasons Ive explained I think  Tesco  has in the privacy document 
Ref: DRN18461862explained the difference between the two types of communication. And I also think that there 
is clear difference  between these different types of communication and it likely the call Mr L 
received was about improving Tescos service rather than offering him an additional product 
for example which I think would constitute  marketing.
There is no question here that the third party company should not have  called Mr L for a 
second time on 15 December 2018.  Ive no doubt Mr L made  clear  on the first call that he 
didnt wish to receive any further calls so I understand his frustration in these circumstances 
when he received that second call. But Im satisfied Tesco has dealt fairly with that part of 
Mr Ls complaint. I can see that its apologised and paid £25 compensation. I think that 
compensation fairly and reasonably reflects the level of the company acting on Tescos 
behalf mistake and takes into account the limited impact it had upon  Mr L as he didnt 
actually answer the call.
Overall I dont think Tesco acted  unfairly or made  a mistake by allowing the contact  with Mr L 
about market  research in the first place. For that reason I cant  fairly order Tesco to do 
anything further  in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1846186