K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited (BMW) unfairly charged him for 
damage to a car he returned when he voluntary terminated his hire purchase  agreement.  
background
Mr S had a four year hire purchase agreement with BMW that started  in October  2014.  
Mr S voluntary terminated the agreement shortly  before it was due to end. The car had 
driven around 46,000 miles at this point.  
It was a term of Mr Ss agreement that he return the car in reasonable condition  upon 
voluntary termination  and that he could be charged if he didnt.
When BMWs  agent collected  Mr Ss car it noted four items  of damage that it considered to 
be more than fair wear  and tear. BMW  charged  Mr S £424  for this damage.
Mr S said BMW unfairly charged him for the damage. He doesnt think all of the damage hes 
been charged for is more than fair wear tear given the time hes had the car and the amount 
its been driven. And he doesnt think the amount  hes been  charged is a fair reflection of the 
cost of the work required to repair the damage. 
Our investigator didnt  think it was fair to charge  for two of the four items BMW had asked   
Mr S to pay for. She didnt think the pictures  taken at the time of collection showed that the 
damage was beyond fair wear and tear and therefore not chargeable. 
BMW disagreed with the investigator so the complaint has been  passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In assessing the fairness of charges relating to Mr Ss car  which was new when supplied  
Ive taken into account The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing  Association (BVRLA) guide 
The Industry Fair Wear & Tear Standard.  This sets out industry  standards  for acceptable 
damage for drivers of leased and financed cars so I think its relevant industry  guidance that 
I should give consideration to and a good  starting  point in helping decide what  is fair in this 
case. 
The relevant  section of the BVRLA  guidance relating to scratches  says that scratches up to 
25mm are acceptable relative to the cars age and mileage provided the bare metal or primer 
is not showing. 
Ive looked at the photos of the damage  from the inspection report  provided by BMW  and 
make the following findings:
Ref: DRN12347032left side front wing
The photos  show a scratch  that is at least 150mm long. I think BMW  has charged fairly for 
this. The scratch is in excess  of the accepted level of damage in the BVRLA guidance and I 
think its likely to have caused BMW  some  loss, either through  getting it repaired or loss of 
value when it comes to selling the car. And I dont think the amount being charged  is 
unreasonable in this instance given the size of the scratch. 
right side rear quarter panel
The scratch  is quite clearly visible from the photos provided and has gone  through to the 
primer. For the same reasons Ive given above I think  BMW has fairly  charged for this item of 
damage. 
right side rear door
BMW says the scratch here is more than 25mm and goes through the top coat of paint. But 
from the photos I find it hard to tell which part of the panel is scratched rather than simply 
dirty. BMW hasnt  pointed out exactly what its charging for and I dont think its clear enough 
from the pictures that the damage is beyond fair and wear tear in this instance  given the age 
and mileage of the car. I dont find it was fair to BMW to charge for this item.  
right side front wing
Again its hard to tell what is dirt and what is a scratch  in the photo and its not clearly 
pointed out. The photos are close ups and its hard to read the ruler measurements. And 
even if I could clearly identify the scratch  it would  be difficult to work out how long it was. So I 
dont think it was fair to charge for this item either.  
So overall, having considered relevant industry guidance and what I consider to be fair in the 
circumstances of this case I think its fair that BMW charges Mr S for the scratches on the 
left side front wing and right side rear quarter panel. But it should remove the damage  
charges relating to the right side rear door and right side front wing.
Mr S has confirmed  he has paid the total charges. So BMW should refund half of these to Mr 
S. And given there was a dispute about  the charges and I agree some  of them were unfairly 
charged, Mr Ss credit file should be amended  so that no adverse information is shown in 
respect of these. 
Ref: DRN12347033my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my final decision is that I uphold  Mr Ss complaint in part. 
To put things right BMW  Financial Services (GB) Limited must:
Refund £212 of the damage charges paid by Mr S plus 8% simple interest from the 
date it was paid until the date of settlement*. 
remove any adverse information  that may have  been recorded  on Mr Ss credit file in 
relation to these  charges. 
**If BMW Financial  Services  (GB)  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much  its taken  off. 
It should also give Mr S a tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Michael Ball
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1234703