K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that he has been  charged  unfairly  for a missed service stamp by PSA 
Finance UK Limited following the return of a car when the hire agreement  came to an end.
background
In July 2017 Mr M entered into a one year hire agreement for a car. Under the terms and 
conditions of the agreement Mr M was responsible  for having the car serviced  and the 
service history booked stamped.
At the end of the agreement arrangements were  made for the car to be inspected and 
collected. At the inspection a dent was found  to the front right door and it was also noted that 
the service history book  was not stamped. The car had been due a service by the end of 
June 2018. 
The report  and an invoice were provided to Mr M. The report noted the dent and that the 
service history book was unstamped. The invoice set out that there  would be a £48 charge 
to repair  the dent. It didnt show any charge for the lack of stamp.
Three weeks later Mr M received an invoice from PSA for charges of £248.  This was made 
up of £48 charge  to repair the dent and a £200 charge for the missed service.  Mr M queried 
the invoice with both PSA and the company that had carried  out the inspection and collection 
of the car on behalf of PSA. He said the car had been serviced shortly before it had been 
collected.
The inspection company asked Mr M to provide  proof the car had been  serviced  in line with 
the lease agreement. It said once  this proof had been received the charge would be 
cancelled. Mr M provided a receipt that the car had been serviced in July 2018.
However the charge wasnt cancelled and Mr M complained  to PSA.  PSA said that under the 
terms and conditions of the lease agreement  Mr M was responsible  for returning  the car with 
all items present which included the service history book. Missing items such  as a complete  
service history were deemed to be outside  normal fair wear and tear and affected the cars 
value and so a charge was imposed. 
PSA said that Mr M had been  provided  with two letters before the end of the agreement 
reminding him of what  needed to be returned with the car. It said hed been given sufficient 
notice to make sure the cars service  history had been properly recorded in the service 
history book. PSA said that as a gesture  of goodwill it would reduce the outstanding charges 
by 50% to £124.  Mr M paid this amount.
Mr M then complained to this service. Our adjudicator recommended that Mr Ms complaint 
should be upheld.  She said that under the terms of the lease Mr M was responsible  for 
maintaining and servicing the car and for having  the service  history book stamped. And this 
meant PSA was entitled  to raise a charge when there was not any evidence  the service  had 
taken place as recommended by the manufacturer. 
Mr M had then provided proof the car had been serviced and the agent had said if this was 
provided the charge would be waived. PSA said this had been an error  on behalf of the 
agent but the adjudicator  said it wasnt fair to make  this offer and then withdraw it.
Ref: DRN19163012The adjudicator also said that any charge imposed had to reflect  the actual impact on the 
value of the car. And as the car had been  serviced it was difficult to assess the impact of a 
missed service stamp. She didnt think PSA had shown why the figure  of £200 was a 
reasonable figure in these circumstances.
The adjudicator also said that Mr M had been  given conflicting information when the car had 
been inspected. The invoice hed received  didnt  say there  would be a charge for the missing 
stamp and so he hadnt been given an opportunity to rectify this. She said that she didnt 
think it was fair for Mr M to be charged for the missing service stamp.
However the adjudicator said that Mr M should pay for the dent to the car as this was 
beyond fair wear and tear.
The adjudicator recommended that PSA reimbursed Mr M the £124 repair costs hed paid.
PSA disagreed with the view of our adjudicator. It said Mr M had been reminded twice that 
he needed to have the car serviced and the service  book stamped before he handed  it back. 
This was his responsibility  under  the terms of the agreement. The agent  had made an error 
saying any charge would be waived. It had already  halved the costs as a gesture of goodwill 
and it was unfair to now waive the cost.
The complaint has been passed  to me as the parties were unable  to agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M accepts that the cars door had a dent and agrees that its fair for him to pay for that. 
The original  cost of repair was £48 but PSA has reduced this to £24 as a gesture of goodwill 
and Mr M has paid that amount (together with the £100 charged for the missing  service 
stamp) so Im not going to ask for that £24 to be reimbursed. Mr M agrees  he is only 
disputing the £100 payment.
Ive seen a copy  of the lease agreements terms and conditions.  These set out at term 5 that 
its Mr M who will be responsible for any loss or damage to the vehicle during the period of 
the agreement. He is responsible for keeping the vehicle  in good condition which includes 
carrying out any necessary repairs and having  the car serviced. The agreement also 
stipulates that Mr M must  ensure the service book  is stamped for each and every service 
and must  return this book  when the car is handed  back.
Under term 8 of the agreement Mr M is responsible for the costs of servicing, providing 
replacement parts and carrying  out repairs which are needed  to put the vehicle in good  
condition following its return.
Ive also seen that prior to the handback  of the car Mr M was sent two letters  by PSA about 
what had to be returned with the car. Both of these letters  sent out respectively 90 days  and 
30 days before the date of the cars collection remind of the need to have the service book 
stamped.
Ref: DRN19163013Mr M says he was informed by the garage that serviced the car that the service invoice was 
left in the service  book.  But even if that was the case  it doesnt  appear that the service  book 
was stamped as it should have been.
Its not disputed  that the car received its annual service and Mr M has provided  invoice 
evidence that shortly before the car was returned hed had it serviced.  However,  PSA didnt 
know that until after it had raised the charge of £200  for the missing  service. As a lack of 
service would affect the value of the car and under the agreement PSA was entitled to 
charge for servicing if it hadnt been  carried out then I think  PSAs charging Mr M £200  was 
reasonable.
PSA says that the lack of a service stamp means that there is a missing item and this falls 
outside fair wear  and tear and its reasonable for it to charge for that. But charges must 
reflect the impact on the value  of the car. I accept a full service history does affect a cars 
value but I also agree with the adjudicator that its very difficult to establish what  affect  on the 
value a missing service stamp would have.
PSA says that its agent who inspected and collected the car wouldve reiterated that the 
service book needed to be stamped. But Mr M says that the agent didnt raise this with him 
nor did they tell him he would be charged  for the missing  stamp. I think  that as the car had 
been serviced and all that was missing was the stamp that most people would think it would 
be reasonable to be given  an opportunity to rectify  the service book by getting it 
subsequently stamped.  
Mr M only became aware of the £200 charge when he received the invoice from PSA. He 
contacted the garage that serviced the car as well as PSA and the company that had acted 
as its agent when inspecting and collecting the car. Mr M was told by the agent company  
that if he sent a copy of the service invoice  the charge would be waived. PSA says this was 
an error and the agent shouldnt have said this. But whether  it was an error or not Mr M was 
made this offer and acted on it by obtaining a copy of the invoice and sending it.
So although  accepting the service stamp was missing I still need to consider what  the affect 
was on the standard of the car. And I think in these circumstances one missing  stamp,  but 
with proof  the service  had taken place, the affect  would be considerably  less than £200 
charged. I also think its more likely than not that any impact would be less than the 
subsequently reduced charge of £100. 
I also dont think that it was fair and reasonable for PSA to discount what its agent had told 
Mr M about the charge being waived  if proof  was sent in regardless of whether that had 
been an error.
So looking  at the evidence I dont think PSA has acted fairly  in charging Mr M £100 for the 
missing service stamp. Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and Im asking PSA to reimburse him 
the £100 charge for the missing service  stamp.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. Im asking PSA Finance  UK 
Limited to reimburse  him the £100 charged for the missing service  stamp  together  with 
Ref: DRN19163014interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1916301