K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs W say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold him the MPPI. 
The mortgage was taken out in joint names,  but the policy  only covered Mr W.
background
My colleague issued a provisional decision in 2015, addressing  some  of Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint points in a bit more detail. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs W case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs W say that they wouldnt have agreed to the MPPI if theyd known they had a 
choice. I cant know what was said at the time, and Mr and Mrs W havent provided  much 
detail about this either. So I have  to base my decision  on the information I do have. 
Bradford & Bingley  have provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage  application, and I 
can see on this that the MPPI  is presented as an optional product  and choices have 
been made about the level of cover  required.  Mr and Mrs W have both signed this 
application. So with this in mind,  I think Bradford & Bingley  made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs 
W didnt have to take out the MPPI and that they chose  to take it out  although  I can 
understand why they cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Bradford & Bingley  says it didnt provide advice to Mr and Mrs W. They  say they were  
given advice. I cant know for certain  if advice was given, but if Bradford & Bingley did 
recommend the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W then it would have had to check that the MPPI 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example Mr W wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the MPPI cover and they seem  to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs W about the MPPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for them  if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the MPPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
This means Bradford & Bingley doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the MPPI  to Mr 
and Mrs W.
But Bradford  & Bingley will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W 
because: 
Ref: DRN16784932Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the MPPI  premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because  Bradford 
& Bingley didnt  tell Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W has said, including  what  theyve said about not 
needing the cover as Mr W had sick pay, and that Mrs W couldve made the mortgage   
repayments with her own salary.
But the MPPI couldve paid out on top of any existing cover Mr W had in place, and covered 
him for longer. I can also see that at the time, Mrs Ws salary  was significantly lower than 
Mr Ws, so I can see why they wouldve  chosen to protect the mortgage by covering  Mr W. 
And as Ive explained  above, I think Mr and Mrs W knew they had a choice in taking  out the 
MPPI  so they wouldve  done so knowing what cover they already had in place. So this 
point doesnt change my decision  and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think  the policy  
was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  has to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium.  Bradford & Bingley should also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs W any extra interest they paid because of that.
Bradford & Bingley  should pay back to Mr and Mrs W the extra they paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  should also pay Mr and Mrs W 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs W can claim  back  the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Ref: DRN16784933Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1678493