K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains about American  Express Services Europe Limited (American Express) 
concerning its handling  of her lost card and her wish to make payment to her account using 
wire transfer. Ms C wants American  Express to reinstate her account and points balance and 
remove any adverse information  from her credit file. 
background
Ms C held an American Express charge card which she paid off monthly. Using  the card, Ms 
C accumulated reward  points which could be spent later.  Late payment of the account  
resulted in forfeiture  of points. 
In April 2018, Ms C contacted American Express through its live chat facility.
She reported that she had lost her charge card, and wanted to make a payment to her 
account by wire transfer. 
Ms C was advised that she needed  to include the card number as the reference on an online 
payment so that the funds  could  be allocated to the correct account. Ms C explained that she 
did not have the card to include the number as it had been  lost. 
The agent  explained that Ms C could make a payment into the account using a debit  card, 
but Ms C did not have  one available. 
The agent  cancelled  Ms Cs card and offered to send  a replacement. Ms C asked if a 
replacement card could  be sent to her at her overseas  address, where she was at the time. 
The agent  explained that as the overseas address was not held on file she would need to 
call and set up that address  before  the card could be sent to her overseas. Alternatively, the 
replacement card could  be sent to her UK correspondence address. 
Ms C elected for the card to be sent to her UK address and the agent  ordered a replacement  
card. 
Ms C asked that a note be put on her account showing that she was trying to make  payment. 
The agent  agreed to add this, but explained to her that the account  was already showing as 
being in arrears. 
Ms C checked at her UK address over the following days but did not receive  the replacement  
card. She contacted American Express in mid May complaining  that without a card she 
wasnt able to make a payment to her account.  She asked that a manager call her back. 
She did not receive a call back. 
Ms C complained to American Express in late May. Around this time she learned  that her 
account had been suspended and sent to the collections  dept. 
American Express responded to Ms Cs complaint in mid June 2018. It explained that the 
information given  to her during her live chat had been correct.  It explained  that her account 
had been in arrears  for 90 days so had been  transferred for recovery, so it would not be 
reinstated, however if Ms C cleared her balance she would be permitted to redeem her 
points. 
Ref: DRN10750002American Express accepted that Ms C had requested calls to be returned to her and that 
American Express had not returned these calls. It therefore upheld her complaint and offered 
her £50 as a goodwill gesture, which was credited to her account. 
Ms C was not satisfied  with this response and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that American  Express  had not done anything wrong in respect  of Ms Cs lost card, but 
that it had failed to return  her calls. He felt that the £50 offered by American  Express  was 
reasonable to reflect  this and did not recommend that American Express  do anything further.  
Ms C was not happy with that outcome as she still has negative markers on her credit  file 
and wants these to be removed. She therefore asked for an ombudsman review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Cs frustration at the circumstances she found herself in in late April 2018, 
and that she was anxious to receive a replacement card so that she could  make  the 
payment as soon  as possible. She feels that it was not her fault that the replacement card 
was delayed and this caused  her payment to be even later, causing a negative effect on her 
credit file.  
I do, however,  have  to look at what American Express  did, and whether their actions were  
reasonable.
When Ms C contacted American  Express and reported her card lost, it was promptly  
cancelled. She asked how she could make a payment by wire transfer and was told that she 
needed to have access to a card in order to include the reference number. Other  methods of 
payment were available,  but these were not open to Ms C due to her other  payment cards  
having been stolen and because she was overseas. 
I understand that Ms C would have wanted  other mechanisms to be made available to her 
but I think the range of options  for paying the account was reasonable.
Ms C was anxious to make the payment as her account was already in arrears, but had to 
wait for a replacement card before she could make payment. American  Express  has 
provided evidence  of the live chat where  the agent  discussed with Ms C how she could get a 
replacement card sent to her. Ms C elected  it to be sent to her UK address, rather  than to 
call in and change her address  so it would be sent to her overseas.  I think  it was reasonable 
of American Express to offer this option, and it was Ms Cs choice to have it sent to her UK 
address.  
American Express has demonstrated that a card was ordered  and was sent out to that 
address shortly after her conversation.
It is unfortunate that the replacement card did not arrive at Ms Cs UK address but I do not 
criticise American Express for this. It checked the address with Ms C and appears to have 
sent this correctly. 
Ref: DRN10750003When Ms C called in mid May to chase  up her card she requested her calls be returned.  I 
cannot see that this was done and American Express  has acknowledged failings in this 
regard. 
Ms Cs account was suspended around this time and sent for debt recovery. 
Whilst I understand that Ms C was making  some effort  to get a card and to pay her account,  
I do not criticise American Express for suspending  the account as it had been in arrears for 
90 days, and the business  acted in line with its terms. I understand that during the last part 
of that time (approximately two weeks)  Ms C was attempting to pay, but I do not think  it was 
unreasonable for American Express to suspend  the account, when for a significant 
proportion of the period of arrears Ms C was able to make payment. American Express  also 
treated Ms Cs points  as forfeited,  in line with the account terms. 
Ms C thinks  it unfair that her credit file reflects late payments when she was trying to pay. I 
do not criticise American Express for this as the reporting was accurate. The loss of Ms Cs 
card in late April was particularly unfortunate timing, but I do not think  the card being  lost 
then prevented American Express  from taking recovery action when it remained unpaid. I 
therefore do not uphold this part of Ms Cs complaint.  
I accept that American  Express provided a poor service by not returning Ms Cs calls, and 
uphold her complaint  in this respect,  however I agree  with the investigators view that the 
compensation offered by American Express is sufficient  to reflect  these failings. I would not 
ask it to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Ms Cs complaint,  but think  that American Express  
Services Europe Limited has acted reasonably in resolving the complaint.  I do not ask the 
business to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1075000