K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that UK Insurance  Limited  (UKI) acted unfairly  and unreasonably when 
dealing with his claim under  a travel insurance policy. He wants his claim paid in full.
background
Mr T had a travel insurance policy  with UKI, which covered him and his wife. They  were  due 
to go abroad on holiday  in December 2018 but their journey  was delayed by drone disruption 
at the airport. They  stayed overnight  at a hotel nearby and the flight  was rescheduled to a 
date five days later than planned. Mr and Mrs T returned home to wait using a taxi and 
returned the airport using a rented car to spend  the night prior to the rearranged  flight at an 
airport hotel.
Due to the delays, Mr and Mrs T didnt use the pre-booked villa accommodation  for five 
nights out of the eight nights booked. The airline  involved paid for one airport  room, one taxi 
journey and some of the expenses connected  to the airport delay.
Mr T made a claim as the holiday had been shortened  by the lost five nights at the villa. UKI 
said that this section only covered curtailment of a holiday  after it started, and not for lost 
nights at the start due to late arrival. Mr T said that this was unfair and unreasonable as a 
curtailed  event was shortened. He pointed out that his party had left their homes and 
returned to wait five days  to start their holiday, which he said under the terms and conditions  
of the policy  meant the holiday had been  curtailed. Mr T noted that the policy also said it paid 
expenses if there was more than four hours of delay  to the flight.
UKI agreed  to pay £317.65 towards the food costs  caused by the delay and for one airport  
hotel room, but said as Mr and Mrs T didnt  stay at home but did go on the holiday in the 
end, it wasnt curtailed as defined  by the policy. It also declined  to pay for the car rental  as 
Mr T had his own car that couldve been  used. 
Mr T made a second claim  as hed booked more accommodation for the latter part of the 
trip, and he said that it wasnt  accessible by vehicle.  Mr and Mrs T did reach the property  on 
foot but didnt  think  it was safe to use the track  each  night  by vehicle, particularly as part of it 
had allegedly  been washed away by previous  flooding. UKI refused this claim as the owner 
of the property stated  in the property description that it was accessible if a four-wheel drive 
vehicle was used.  It said that the policy didnt cover such  circumstances as the property was 
available to be used  and Mr and Mrs T chose not to do so.
Mr T complained to us. The investigators  view was that UKIs policy made  it clear  that it only 
covered curtailed trips after those insured left the UK, which wasnt the case  here. And she 
said that the delay claim  only covered expenses incurred due to the delay at the airport, not 
for the loss of use of pre-booked  accommodation. The investigator said that the second 
claim wasnt covered by the terms and conditions of the policy either  as it was Mr Ts choice 
not to stay at the second property.
Mr T disagreed. He felt that the trip had been  curtailed so his claim in respect  of the unused 
nights at the villa should be accepted. Mr T also said that it was upsetting to be told that he 
was disinclined to stay at the second  property as he had wanted to stay there but felt it 
wasnt possible to reach it. The investigator  didnt change her view.
Ref: DRN13148002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs Ts claim can be split into two parts   the claim for the unused five nights  at the 
villa and the UK car rental, and the claim for the unused second accommodation. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt  actually mention  the car rental  in their complaint to this service, so I 
dont think this item is part of their complaint.
In relation to the unused nights at the villa, the issue isnt really about the definition of 
curtailment. The difficulty is that curtailment  of a journey covered by the policy is what 
triggers acceptance of a curtailment claim. The policy defines a journey in these terms - a 
journey that begins and ends at your home  address during  the period of insurance that is 
outside the UK. While Mr and Mrs T left their home to travel to the airport, they didnt  leave 
the UK. So while I accept  the holiday was shortened, it didnt trigger  the curtailment section 
which only applies to the shortening of holidays after the policyholder leaves the UK.
While Mr and Mrs T may feel this is unfair,  insurers are entitled to set out exactly  what  they 
will and wont  cover in the terms and conditions of the policy.  I cant  say that its unfair or 
unreasonable for UKI to apply the policy in these  circumstances,  especially as all 
policyholders are subject  to the same policy. And as Mr and Mrs T did go on the holiday, the 
cancellation and abandonment sections dont apply. I agree with Mr T that the delay section 
doesnt cover this claim either as that covers additional expenses such as 
accommodation, travel, meals and refreshments which arise  because  the transport you have 
checked-in for is delayed , not unused accommodation booked elsewhere.
In relation to the claim for the unused second property, I can understand why Mr T feels the 
use of the word disinclined is distressing. The reason why this word  has been  used  is 
because its the term used when a policyholder decides not to stay somewhere and the 
policy uses this exact word. As the flooding that mayve affected the track was historic,  the 
catastrophe section doesnt  apply. The property was accessible by foot and there was a 
warning given about access by vehicle. While Ive seen the pictures, I dont think  it was 
unfair or unreasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr and Mrs T chose not to stay at the 
property (due to their concerns about  access at night). The policy  specifically excludes 
claims arising from a decision not to stay somewhere, and its for the policyholder  to take up 
their concerns with the owner.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject  my decision before [ ] May 
2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1314800