K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the renewal terms for their home  insurance policy offered to 
them by Hiscox Underwriting Limited.
background
In February 2019  Mr M contacted Hiscox about his policy which  was due for renewal. He has 
issues about the new premiums and the sum insured for buildings and particularly 
complained that:
He was given  incorrect information  when making enquiries about  switching  his policy  to 
an unlimited basis.
Hed reduced his sum insured for the building to £500,000 and believes Hiscox should  
offer a premium refund  for previous years when the sum insured was unnecessarily high.
He felt he was misadvised when requesting a quote to increase cover for jewellery  and
watches.
He was dissatisfied with the increase in premium, particularly that Hiscox had increased 
it to take account  of discounts in previous years. He was also unhappy with Hiscoxs  
failure to set out its calculations for the increase and about  its refusal  to separate out the 
contents and buildings  premiums.
He had issues over the way his complaint was handled, in relation to a call back and a 
call with the Customer Experience  Leader.
Hiscox agreed that its service wasnt as good  as expected in relation to the advice and 
explanations given and the customer service. It arranged for a hamper to be sent as an 
apology. Mr M didnt  want that as he has allergies.  So Hiscox sent him a payment of £50. 
The hamper couldnt be recalled and Mr M opted  to keep it.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Hiscox had acted  reasonably.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should set out here that we act as an informal alternative dispute resolution  service to 
resolve complaints  by consumers against  businesses informally.  My function is to consider 
Mr Ms complaint rather than go into general principles of how insurance companies are run. 
Mr M has raised a matter of law  that I should  consider the fact that insurance contracts are 
subject to the principle  of utmost good faith. That principle is modified by the Insurance  Act 
2015. The setting  up of such contracts are governed by the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Thats not to say that an insurer is entitled to act 
with bad faith.
Ref: DRN18518542Another point  I should make  is that its for Mr M to raise with us the issues  he wants to make 
complaints about,  we wont listen  to his phone calls with Hiscox  to find such issues  for him.
The policy here is a continuous policy which means that technically a new policy isnt 
issued each year. But a renewal notice is sent each year setting out the renewal premium 
and either  party can choose not to continue. For convenience I shall refer to renewal.
incorrect information given about switching the policy to an unlimited basis
Mr M enquired about cover for contents on an unlimited basis.  Hiscoxs  adviser  failed to tell 
him that that would be possible,  but that it couldnt offer unlimited  cover  for any jewellery, 
watches, valuables, artwork or collections. He was also incorrectly told that he had no cover 
for art or collections on the policy. In fact he had an old policy where those items were 
covered as general contents
I would agree that Mr M wasnt  given accurate information here.
Mr M raised  a further issue  that when he rang on another occasion, he was told he couldnt 
get a mixed quote for unlimited buildings and a limit for contents.  He says he had previously 
received a quotation to that effect. Hiscox confirmed cover couldnt  be offered on that basis  
and couldnt trace where Mr M had been told any different. Mr M believes he was told this in 
one of the phone calls,  but as no evidence can be found of this its up to him to show us 
where he was told that.
reduction of sum insured
Mr M enquired about the sum insured  for the building.  Hiscox has its own internal database 
for estimating this. When  Mr M queried this it told him he could if he wished check through  
the ABI website. As a result he calculated a figure  of some  £234,000 less than Hiscox (with 
yearly indexing) was quoting for the upcoming  renewal. Hiscox accepted  the updated figure 
but wouldnt refund policy  premiums  for previous years when he believed he was 
overinsured. Mr M believes that Hiscox  acted  in bad faith and deliberately  withheld 
information from him which could have reduced his premiums.
Hiscox has explained that it sells its policies  on a non-advised basis and that it was up to 
Mr M to set the rebuild  cost. It was concerned that Mr M didnt underinsure. There  was a big 
difference but as Hiscox  has its own internal  data base  which  applies to all customers,  I cant  
say that it acted unfairly. I havent seen any evidence that Hiscoxs  database  across  all 
properties it insures produces deliberate  overinsurance. It was up to Mr M each year to 
decide what he wanted on renewal. 
Hiscoxs buildings cover  is index linked  based on average figures  provided  by the Royal  
Institution of Chartered Surveyors  over the year and contents cover is index linked based  on 
the average figures provided by the Retail Price Index over the year.  Ive noted that on a 
number of previous  occasions Mr M rang up at renewal time to query various  issues, on one 
occasion in 2013 discussing the sum insured in connection with a greenhouse he was 
building. So I think he was aware of the sum insured and what  that meant.  I wont  ask Hiscox 
to refund any premiums.
Ref: DRN18518543quote to increase cover for jewellery and watches
Mr M advised that he wanted to consider increasing cover for jewellery and watches. His 
request was misunderstood by Hiscoxs  adviser,  who told him it didnt offer standalone 
jewellery and watches cover. I agree with Hiscox that this was poor customer service.
premium increase
I should note here that how insurers set their premiums is a matter for them.  With a large 
insurance market and several price comparison websites there will be a large range of 
premiums/cover on offer. We are concerned to see that any increases in premium  are 
applied fairly  to all coatomers in a similar  position, and that there is no discrimination. But we 
dont ask insurers to disclose to policyholders how they calculate  their premiums if doing  so 
would be a breach  of its commercial confidentiality.
Here Hiscox has explained why the premium increased  by some margin  in 2019. This was 
essentially because Mr M had had the benefit  of discounts in previous years and his policy 
was below its technical rate (the value the system said it would charge customers  that bear 
the same  risk as Mr M). Whilst Mr M felt it was unfair  to recoup  the discount, Hiscox  wasnt 
doing that, it was merely bringing the policy back to its desired level in common with other  
customers in a similar position  to Mr M. He still had the benefit of discounts in previous 
years. Mr M would have  been well aware of his right to ask if Hiscox would offer a discount 
and he didnt have  to continue with it.
Mr M was concerned as he had told Hiscox  of an increase in the hypothetical value of his 
jewellery and contents  and believed  Hiscox  had taken this into account. Hiscox has assured 
him that this didnt  happen though advised him to check he wasnt  underinsured. I think  this 
was reasonable.
Hiscox doesnt separate  out contents and buildings premiums  in its policies  they come as 
a package. Thats a matter for it. 
Overall, I dont  think Hiscox treated Mr M unfairly over the increase in premium.
customer service  issues
Ive noted these relate to Hiscox not returning  a phone  call and the way the Customer 
Experience Leader  spoke to Mr M. The way that businesses deal with their complaints are a 
matter for them. As complaint handling is not a regulated activity I have no power  to consider 
these issues.
compensation
Mr M hasnt  suffered any financial loss and chose to proceed  with the policy. Some  of the 
points he discussed  with Hiscox were just hypothetical issues, I dont think  he was misled  
into buying any cover  he didnt want. That said I do think the advice  given to him should 
have been clearer.  For that Hiscox sent him a hamper which  he said he didnt want.  It then 
paid him £50 compensation. As it couldnt  recall  the order for the hamper Mr M ended  up 
keeping it and the compensation. I think this was fair and reasonable.
.
Ref: DRN18518544my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1851854