K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a short-term regulated loan that Mr and Mrs C took out in 2014.  The 
loan was from Rednel Limited trading as Dragonfly Property Finance. In August 2017 Rednel 
Limited changed its name to Octopus Property Lending Ltd. From  here on, Ill refer to the 
business simply as Octopus.
The loan was for £1.255m, plus fees,  secured  by a legal mortgage  over Mr and Mrs Cs 
home. It was on an interest-only  basis, with the interest rolling  up rather  than being  paid by 
monthly instalments.  The loan was repayable after twelve  months, and the strategy  for 
repaying the capital  was the sale of the mortgaged property. 
Mr and Mrs C complain that this strategy was speculative  and not credible.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex  and involve several 
different financial arrangements that Mr and Mrs C have held from time to time. The 
evidence in the case is detailed, running  to several hundred  pages  of documents.  Ive read 
everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me.
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr and Mrs C when my 
decision is published. For the same reason, all of the figures Ive quoted in the decision have 
been slightly rounded, so are illustrative rather than exact. 
Mr and Mrs C already  had a mortgage on their home with a lender Ill call U. That was due 
for repayment and U had told Mr and Mrs C in writing  that it was disinclined to extend  the 
mortgage beyond  29 August 2014.  Mr and Mrs C were trying to sell their home, but also 
wanted to raise money to put into their business, and clear some personal  debt. Rather  than 
await the sale, they approached a broker Ill call CP to see if it could raise  finance to repay 
U and raise the necessary extra funds.
CP recommended the loan with Octopus.  Octopus obtained a valuation of the proposed 
security; this returned a valuation of £2.6m assuming a sale in 180 days, or £2.3 to expedite  
a sale within  90 days. Octopus agreed to lend Mr and Mrs C £1.255m, plus fees, and issued 
a formal offer on 22 August 2014;  the offer said Octopus had relied on a valuation of £2.6m.  
With the roll-up of accrued interest  over the loan term, Mr and Mrs C would have to repay  
approximately £1.423m at the term end. The loan completed, but the house didnt sell and 
when the loan fell due for repayment in August 2015, Mr and Mrs C requested a 
twelve- month extension.  
Ref: DRN18846662Octopus offered an extension on an execution-only basis; that is, where Mr and Mrs C 
decided for themselves if the offer was suitable,  without advice from Octopus. The extension 
offer explained that the amount repayable on settlement would go up to about  £1.585m,  and 
that based on the 2014 valuation of £2.6m, Mr and Mrs Cs equity from sale would  be around 
£1.014m. Mr and Mrs C accepted the offer and the extension  was granted,  giving them until 
26 August 2016  to sell the house  and repay  the loan.
Unfortunately, the house still didnt sell, and Mr and Mrs C requested  a second extension  
from Octopus  whilst they negotiated a refinancing deal with another  lender which  Ill call M. 
That went  ahead in January 2017 and the Octopus  loan was repaid. 
The essence  of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is that Octopus agreed to lend on the basis  of a 
repayment strategy that was speculative and not credible. They say that by doing so, 
Octopus is in breach  of the rules of mortgage  regulation. 
Theyve also complained  to CPs  role in selling the Octopus loan, and about  the loan that M 
provided to repay Octopus. Were  looking at those  separately. To be clear, Im dealing here 
solely with the complaint  about Octopus lending decision; where  Ive referred  to actions 
taken by CP and/or M, its for context only.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Octopus had done anything  wrong,  and so didnt  recommend  the 
complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagree  and want to have their complaint reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules require us to determine a complaint by considering all of the evidence  from both 
parties in order to decide whats fair in all the circumstances. Where the available  evidence 
is contradictory, incomplete, or even missing altogether,  we reach our conclusions on the 
basis of what is most  likely to have happened  on the balance of probabilities. Thats  the 
same approach that the courts use in civil cases.  
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs case is largely focussed  on what they regard as a breach of the Mortgage 
and Home Finance  Conduct of Business Rules (known as MCOB for short); specifically, 
section 11.6.41, which deals with the strategy  for repaying interest-only mortgages.  In 
deciding a complaint, Im required  to give due consideration  to relevant law, regulation as 
well as whats generally regarded as standard industry practice at the time of the events. 
Ultimately though, whilst having  regard for the above, I have to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
In Mr and Mrs Cs case, the strategy  for repaying the Octopus loan was the sale of their 
home, which was already  on the market when  the loan started. The basis of their argument 
Ref: DRN18846663is centred around  the amount of money theyd have available to buy another  house after the 
sale had gone  through and Octopus had been repaid. 
They have said that their aim was to buy a new home for between  £1.3m  and £1.6m, and 
this was mentioned  by CPs broker in conversation with Octopus. Assuming a sale for the 
assumed valuation of £2.6m, after repaying  Octopus  and taking into account  likely 
transaction costs  of £100,000, theyd  only have been left with £1.08m to buy another  house. 
If the expedited sale valuation of £2.3m was used, theyd  only be left with about  £780,000 to 
spend on their new home. 
So the crux of Mr and Mrs Cs argument is that the range of variation meant the repayment 
strategy was speculative, and the fact that it would never have been possible to achieve  their 
minimum stated  aim of buying  for £1.3m means  the strategy wasnt  credible.
Ive given that a very great deal of thought, but Im afraid I dont find it persuasive. Octopus 
had a duty to lend responsibly, and part of that duty included ensuring Mr and Mrs C had a 
credible strategy for repaying the capital; theres  no dispute about that. Its also important  to 
keep in mind that the very nature  of the lending (short-term - in effect, bridging - finance) 
imposed a time constraint  on them  selling  the house. Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C understood  
and accepted that, not least because their solicitor wrote to Octopus to confirm  hed 
explained this to them and they were happy  to proceed. 
The decision  for Octopus  to make was whether  it was credible that £1.423m (the amount 
due after interest  had been  added  to the original  loan) could reasonably be repaid after 
twelve months from the sale proceeds  of a house  valued at £2.6m, assuming a marketing 
period of six months. In other words, it was being asked to take a risk that the house would 
sell for 182%  of the debt within 50% of the time available to repay  it. I dont find that to be 
particular speculative or lacking in credibility.  
Where I think Mr and Mrs C have perhaps mis-directed themselves, is in thinking  that 
Octopus regulatory  duty extended  to ensuring  they would have a minimum of £1.3m after 
sale and repayment  to spend  on their next house. Thats not the case.
Lenders shouldnt  be oblivious  to their borrowers  ability to find a new home when 
considering accepting the sale of an existing one to repay a debt. But everything has a 
context. Mr and Mrs C may have wanted  to be able to spend  £1.3m  on their next house, but 
Octopus wasnt obliged  to ensure  they could do that. 
Even at the expedited sale valuation of £2.3m,  Mr and Mrs C would still have had, by their 
own calculation, around £780,000 to spend on their next home.  They may think thats 
unacceptable, but I think Octopus might reasonably have taken the view that if need be, 
Mr and Mrs C should adjust their requirements accordingly and be prepared  to buy a more  
modest home than theyd  have preferred.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from their submissions how strongly Mr and Mrs C feel about this. 
Thats a natural, subjective  reaction, and entirely understandable. Its also natural to 
emphasise individual statements  or comments that appear to support a particular view point, 
whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the opposite viewpoint.
Ref: DRN18846664Be that as it may, I have  to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively,  sometimes  stepping back and taking an overview. The mortgage and 
extension offers were  clear that the property had been valued at £2.6m,  so it should have 
been apparent  from those  that the sale of the property wouldnt give Mr and Mrs C the £1.3m 
they were looking  for. For the reasons Ive explained, Octopus concern was limited to the 
debt repayment  strategy  only.  And the strategy  for repaying the debt wasnt unsound, it 
simply didnt leave Mr and Mrs C as much  left over as they wanted.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint, or make  
any order or award against Octopus Property Lending Ltd. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1884666