K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that TFS Loans  Limited (TFS)  lent him a guarantor  loan he couldnt afford 
in March 2014.
Background
In March 2014, TFS agreed to lend Mr J £5,000 to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of 
around £211.18. Mr J provided details  of a guarantor before the loan was approved.
In July 2018, Mr J complained to TFS about  the affordability of the loan. He said his credit 
file showed he was indebted  which meant he couldnt afford the loan and TFS shouldnt  
have lent to him. TFS didnt agree it had done anything wrong, it says it carried out checks  
and those checks showed that Mr J could afford the loan. TFS agreed that it should have 
done more when Mr J informed it that he was in financial difficulties and offered to refund the 
interest on Mr Js account from July 2015  onwards.
Unhappy with TFS response, Mr J referred  his complaint to this service where it was looked 
at by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator thought that TFS should have done more  
before agreeing to lend to Mr J but concluded  that had TFS done more, it would likely  have  
found that Mr J could afford the loan. Our adjudicator also thought that TFS had acted fairly 
in its offer to refund interest and charges. So, our adjudicator  didnt recommend that the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Mr J disagreed and said that his income  was less than what was being taken into account 
and he couldnt  afford  the loan. Mr J asked for an ombudsman  to make a decision on the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner  without it adversely impacting  on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks  needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed  was due to be repaid. 
From the information provided, I can see that TFS searched Mr Js credit  file, checked the 
purpose of the loan which Mr J said was for debt consolidation.  I can also see that TFS 
requested bank statements from Mr J before lending and based on what it saw it decided  to 
lend.
Ref: DRN10455672Mr Js application form shows that he was working,  a home  owner and had two dependents.  
His bank statements showed a steady income from wages, a student  loan and child benefits. 
It isnt clear how much attention TFS paid to the bank statements it requested  from Mr J but I 
think given the length of time Mr J would be committed to repaying this loan it may have  
wanted to understand a bit more  about his outgoings, taking into account things like child 
care costs as that information doesnt  appear  obvious on the bank statement and other living  
expensed.
Looking at Mr Js financial circumstances at the time, he was borrowing from other  short 
term lenders but as hed told TFS that he planned  to use the loan to consolidate his debt to 
other lenders thereby  reducing his monthly outgoings, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
TFS not to take those short term and credit card commitments into account  as they were to 
be repaid through the loan it was now giving Mr J.
Mr Js income  in the month before the loan was over £2,000   this included his wages, child 
benefit and his student loan. Mr J has argued that the student  loan shouldnt be taken  into 
account as it was a loan due to be repaid. While  I understand where hes coming from the 
student loan was regular payment that catered  for living costs while studying and so it would 
qualify as income that Mr J could  use as he pleased at the time. 
Also, I can see that when  Mr J completed the application, he told TFS that he was due to 
graduate in May 2014 and was in discussions with his employer about a role that would 
likely increase his income. I think it was reasonable for TFS to place  some  weight on this 
and its not unusual to earn more after the completing a course of study. And so even if the 
student loan was due to end, Mr J was likely  going to be in a position to earn more than his 
salary was, something which he confirmed to TFS.
Mr Js income  outweighed his living costs and regular  credit commitments which were 
around £1,400,  this meant that he had sufficient disposable income  to sustainably meet the 
monthly repayment of £211.18 towards the loan at the time it was given. I appreciate that
Mr Js circumstances changed  during the term of the loan and I agree that TFS should have 
done more when Mr J told it he was in financial difficulties, but it has agreed to put things 
right on that point in a way that I think is fair.
So, while I think TFS could  have  done  more before lending, I think  that its likely to have 
found that Mr Js circumstances at the time suggested that he could afford  the loan.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint or make  an award against TFS 
Loan Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020
Oyetola Oduola
ombudman
Ref: DRN1045567