K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) registered his details with CIFAS  and closed 
his account, causing serious  repercussions for him.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 25 November 2019, a copy of which is attached as it forms 
part of this final decision. Mr A accepted my provisional findings. But Metro  did not. They say 
the proposed  compensation  of £5,000  is too high. They  think £2,000 would be appropriate.
Metro dont dispute the timeline of events  and they accept that they failed Mr A personally. 
But they say the level of compensation  proposed  in my provisional decision is too heavily 
weighted against  how Mr As business  has been affected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro accept that issues relating to a business  can affect a directors  personal life. But they 
say the two issues should be kept separate. They say I cant  consider here any 
compensation which may or may not be owed  to the business.
In bringing this complaint, Mr A had provided documents  in support of financial losses  he 
says his business has suffered. I explained  in my provisional decision that, because this 
complaint has been brought  by Mr A in his personal  capacity, I cant  make a decision about 
any compensation which may or may not be due to his business.  So my provisional award 
didnt contain  any element  of compensation for any losses suffered by the business.  Any 
compensation due to the business will need  to be awarded to the business,  following a 
separate complaint by the business.
A business cant experience distress. But a person who is a director  of a business  can. And, 
for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision, Im satisfied  that Mr A experienced 
distress in his capacity as owner and sole director of the business.
The upset he experienced wouldnt fall to be compensated through a complaint brought by 
the business. It needs to be taken account  of in a complaint  by Mr A personally. So I havent  
changed my mind about the fact that I can make an award here for distress suffered by Mr A 
in his role as director of the business.  
Metro say that Mr As main points of complaint are about how his business  was affected. 
They say my provisional decision focuses too heavily  on this. My provisional award does 
factor in some compensation for distress  experienced  by Mr A in his role as director  of the 
business. But not to the extent which Metro suggest.
When we as a service decide to award  compensation,  we dont give a set amount for each 
mistake the bank has made and then add them together. Instead, we look at the situation 
overall and decide what we think would  be a fair amount in the individual  circumstances of 
each complaint. So I havent broken down the compensation into separate  amounts for each 
mistake, or by whether  it affected Mr A as an individual  or as a director of the business. Ive 
looked at the situation  as a whole. The distress  caused to him as sole director  seeing  his 
Ref: DRN14392292business suffering  was one of the factors  I took into account. But it was only one of many  
factors.
Other very significant factors which I referred to in my provisional  findings include: (a) that 
Metro placed a CIFAS  marker on Mr As profile  without grounds; (b) that they failed to 
remove it when they knew it wasnt necessary  or correct; (c) that Mr As account was closed  
without justification;  (d) that, as a result, his accounts elsewhere were blocked;  (e) that he 
couldnt open a new account;  (f) that Mr A was left without access  to a bank account for 
nearly eight weeks; (g) that Mr A says he had no earnings for over three  months; (h)  that Mr 
A says at times he had no access to funds including  for meals;  (i) that Mr A says the 
situation has affected his health;  and (j) that Metros handling of the situation only served to 
make it worse. These  issues affect  Mr A in his capacity as an individual.  And I think some of 
them are even more  serious than the fact that Mr A saw his business suffer.
Ive considered Metros  comments carefully.  But I dont think the provisional award gives  
undue emphasis to distress suffered  by Mr A in his capacity as a director of the business.  So 
I havent changed my mind about  the appropriate level of compensation here. In the light of 
all the serious repercussions outlined above,  I still think that £5,000 is a fair amount of 
compensation overall. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), I uphold 
this complaint. My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must pay Mr A compensation of 
£5,000.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14392293copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr A complains that Metro  Bank PLC (Metro) registered his details with CIFAS and closed his 
account, causing  serious repercussions  for him.
background
Mr A held an account  with Metro. He also held two accounts (a personal account and a business  
account) with another bank which Ill call L. On 22 October 2018,  Mr A received some payments into 
his personal  account with L. He immediately transferred most of those  funds  into his Metro  account 
and withdrew  them from there  that same day. 
On 23 October,  L was contacted  by the original sending  bank (which  Ill call B) to say it was 
investigating the source  of the funds. L put a block  on Mr As accounts and contacted  Metro. Metro  
restricted Mr As account  on 23 October.  On 30 October they wrote to him giving him notice that his 
account would be closed on 6 November. And on 1 November, Metro registered  Mr As details with 
CIFAS.
Both B and L concluded  their investigations very quickly and were  both satisfied with the source of 
funds. L then unblocked  Mr As accounts on 23 October. But it didnt update Metro  until 5 November.  
And at that point, Metro didnt act on the information straight away. So they allowed the closure of Mr 
As account to go ahead  and didnt remove the CIFAS marker.
On 31 October Mr A says he tried to use his Metro card to make a purchase and it was declined. He 
called Metro  to query this. The agent he spoke to told him that a letter  had been sent to him giving 
more information about his account.  She said she couldnt do anything  and advised  him to wait for the 
letter. 
Mr A says that, on or around 6 November, L blocked both his accounts  again. He says he approached 
another bank,  who said they couldnt open an account  for him because  of a note recorded by Metro.
On 7 November, Mr A called Metro. He wanted  to know why they had closed his account. He told 
them his accounts  with L had been blocked. He explained that he couldnt pay bills or Direct Debits 
and was left without  access  to any bank  accounts.  
The adviser  suggested he write to Metros head  office.  She also said she would  liaise with another 
department to find out more and would call him back straight away. Mr A didnt get a call back, so on 
8 November he called again and spoke  to a different agent. In this call he asked  for a call back from 
the original  agent but never received one.
Mr A logged a complaint  with Metro on 15 November and asked them to remove the CIFAS marker. 
He also called  them on 15 and 21 November and was advised to write to their head office. Metro  
issued their final response letter on 21 November.  They  didnt  uphold the complaint and said the 
CIFAS marker  would  remain  in place.  
Mr A wrote  to Metro again on 12 December.  On 27 December, he called again  and was told they had 
removed the CIFAS marker  that day. He asked  for this in writing  so that he could show other banks. 
The agent said she couldnt  do this and told him he would need to make a data subject access  
request. She also told him hed need to go into a branch  if he wanted to open a new Metro  account.
 
On 2 January 2019, Metro  responded to Mr As letter of 12 December. They re-iterated their decision 
to end their relationship with him and said this was because  they had been informed  that the funds 
paid into his account on 22 October were fraudulent. They also said they hadnt registered a CIFAS 
marker against  his name.
Ref: DRN14392294Mr A contacted Metro again on 11 January and logged a complaint about  closure of his account. 
Metro wrote back the same  day saying  they couldnt uphold the complaint because  they had followed 
the correct procedure.
After that, Mr A brought his complaint to this service.  At that stage,  Metro acknowledged that the 
CIFAS loading  should have been  removed  on or shortly after 5 November  and that, due to human  
error, it wasnt. They also acknowledged that they knew the fraud claim  had been withdrawn  by B and 
L the day before Mr As account was due to be closed, but hadnt stopped the closure. In light of this, 
they offered compensation of £250 for the inconvenience caused by their mistakes.
Mr A says that offer doesnt reflect the very significant impact of the situation.  He says the effect  on 
his business has been severe  and hes provided documents relating to the financial losses he says 
hes suffered.  He says he wasnt able to pay his business  rent for three months, or pay Direct Debits 
and other  business payments. He says that, as a result, services which he relies on for his business 
were suspended and various business  contracts have  been adversely affected. Mr A also described 
the effect this situation has had on him personally. He says he had no earnings  for over three months 
and no access to a bank account. And hes described the very significant  personal distress this 
caused him. 
Our investigator recommended compensation of £1,750. But Metro didnt agree to this. They say that 
Mr As account  is a basic cash account for personal use only. They dont  accept that the documents 
Mr As provided show  financial  losses,  or that any losses were caused by their mistake. So they think  
the recommended  compensation is too high.
Mr A wasnt happy with our investigators  view either. He says that, because Metro didnt remove the 
CIFAS marker, L re-blocked both his accounts,  causing the repercussions outlined above.  And he 
doesnt think  the compensation  reflects  what hes been through.  He says his business is still suffering  
and that the situation  is still having a very great personal impact on him. Hes seeking redress  in the 
region of £30,000.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Metro accept they made mistakes here. But I dont think theyve  recognised the serious  repercussions 
those mistakes had for Mr A. In this decision, Im going to focus on the consequences of Metros  
actions so that I can decide  on the appropriate  level of compensation here.
The financial  losses Mr A complains about seem  to relate mainly to his business, which is a separate  
legal entity to him personally. And this complaint is from him personally, relating to his own personal  
account. I realise this will be disappointing to Mr A, but I cant make a decision here about any 
compensation which may or may not be due to his business. Any compensation due to the business  
will need  to be looked at as part of a complaint by the business, and with any redress then being  paid 
to the business. 
However, because Mr A is a director  of the company (the sole director), any distress  and 
inconvenience caused  to him in that capacity and as owner of the business  will need to be recognised 
by payment of compensation to him personally.  So Im looking here at the amount of compensation  
which needs to be paid to Mr A personally,  both in his capacity as an individual and as director/owner 
of the business.
The key issues here seem to me to be as follows: (a) the placing of the CIFAS marker, (b) the delay in 
removing the CIFAS marker,  (c) closure of Mr As Metro account, and (d) the way Metro dealt  with the 
situation. Ill look at each of these in turn.
Ref: DRN14392295placing of the CIFAS marker
I think  Metro were over-zealous in placing  the CIFAS  marker on 1 November. Although its right that 
they should  take allegations of fraud seriously,  I wouldnt expect a business to apply a CIFAS marker 
simply because it suspects fraud. 
The fraud  claim was withdrawn by L and B on 23 October. Its unfortunate that L didnt tell Metro 
straight away. But Id have  expected Metro to gather more information themselves before placing the 
marker. Theyd been told by L on 23 October about the investigation into the funds.  But it wasnt until 
1 November that Metro  placed the marker. I think  its fair to say they should have  checked the latest 
position before placing the marker. It would  have been reasonable for them to have contacted  L for an 
update. If theyd done  so, theyd have known that the funds were genuine and there were  no grounds 
for applying  a marker.
 
So I think the CIFAS marker was placed by Metro unnecessarily and without sufficient  grounds. 
delay in removing the CIFAS marker
If Metro had removed the CIFAS marker  as soon  as they heard from L on 5 November,  I dont think  
the consequences would  have  been too significant here. But their failure to act promptly means that 
from 1 November until 27 December, there was an unnecessary CIFAS marker recorded on Mr As 
profile. 
Mr A says that, although  L was satisfied  with the source of funds and had unblocked his accounts on 
23 October, it re-blocked both his accounts on 6 November. Mr A says that was because  of the 
CIFAS marker  placed by Metro. L has confirmed  that it re-blocked Mr As business and personal 
accounts from 6 November until 28 December 2018. The information L has provided includes details 
of its confidential internal processes and isnt something Im able to share with the parties. But from 
what L has told me, Im satisfied that it was Metros CIFAS loading which led it to re-block Mr As 
accounts for this period of time.
So, as a result  of the CIFAS loading  placed  by Metro, Mr A was denied access to banking facilities 
with both his existing banks.  He says he then tried to open a new account  at another bank but wasnt 
able to do so because of the CIFAS marker.  I havent  seen any documents relating to this. But Ive 
heard Mr As account and Ive no reason to doubt what he says. Its entirely  understandable that with 
his Metro account closed and his accounts with L blocked, hed have tried to open a new account 
elsewhere. And its understandable that the third party bank wouldnt have wanted to accept Mr A as 
a new customer when it saw the CIFAS  marker. 
So I find that Metros actions meant Mr A was left without access  to a bank account. He told Metro 
this on 7 November.
account closure  and access to funds
Mr A says he tried to use his Metro card on 31 October 2018, but the payment was declined. His 
statement confirms that he withdrew the transferred funds in full on 22 October,  leaving the account 
with a zero balance. So I dont think Mr A would  have been  able to use his Metro card to make the 
purchase on 31 October even if his account hadnt been  restricted. Thats because  there were  no 
funds in the account by then and there was no overdraft facility.
As to closure  of the account, when Metro wrote to Mr A giving him seven days notice,  they said they 
were doing  so under  clause  11.2 of their terms and conditions. And their letter  of 2 January 2019 said 
As we have  been informed  of fraudulent funds paid into your account held with us at Metro  Bank, we 
have taken the decisions  [sic] to end the relationship with you as a customer as per 11.2 of our 
service relationships with personal customers.  The clause does  allow Metro  to withdraw services if 
we think that there has been fraud or other suspicious  activity  involving your account  (or we suspect 
this is the case).
Ref: DRN14392296When Metro  wrote to Mr A on 30 October 2018 giving him notice of his account  closure,  this clause 
had been triggered. But before the notice period had expired, Metro knew that the funds  werent 
suspicious and the fraud claim had been withdrawn. So they no longer had reason to think  or suspect  
that there had been fraud involving Mr As account.  They actually knew this wasnt the case. But they 
still went ahead with the account closure. In light of the information  given to them by L on 5 November  
2018, I dont think Metro had grounds for closing  Mr As account the next day.
compensation
Metro offered compensation of £250. But I agree thats not enough  to reflect the impact of their 
actions. They placed a CIFAS marker on Mr As profile without grounds and then failed to remove it 
when they knew it wasnt necessary or correct.  His account was then closed without justification. His 
accounts elsewhere  were consequently blocked and he wasnt  able to open a new account. He was 
left without access to a bank account for nearly eight weeks. And the way Metro  handled the situation 
only made things worse for Mr A. 
Ive listened to Mr As calls to Metro. I dont  think the way he was treated was at all satisfactory. He 
was passed around and never able to speak to someone who could discuss the situation with him in 
any detail. His concerns  werent treated seriously  or with an appropriate level of urgency. And when 
he wrote to Metro, the issue wasnt investigated properly.  If it had been, the mistakes with the CIFAS 
marker and closure of the account would have come to light and could have  been dealt  with earlier. 
Having made  mistakes in the first place, Metro made them worse and their further actions meant that 
the consequences for Mr A were prolonged  and made more serious.
Ive also taken  into account the serious  personal  impact Mr A says this situation has had. Its caused 
him great distress and affected him in many ways. This could  have been avoided if Metro had acted 
on the information theyd  been given  and taken Mr As concerns seriously.
Mr A says the situation has had financial consequences  for his business. As Ive explained  above, I 
cant make  a decision  here about the impact on the business because Im only looking at the effect  on 
Mr A personally. If Mr A wishes to seek compensation for his business, that will need to be looked at 
as a separate complaint.
But I think the compensation for Mr A personally  needs  to be substantial. The level of distress caused  
to Mr A here has been severe. The inconvenience has also been very great. Mr A was left without 
access to banking  facilities for several weeks. I think most people  would encounter all sorts  of 
practical difficulties in that situation, as he did. He also saw the effects on his business  and 
experienced the distress and inconvenience of dealing with that. And Mr A says he had no earnings 
for over three months.
I havent seen details of any fixed earnings  which  Mr A expected to receive. I understand that he 
would have paid himself from income  earned by the business, but Im not aware  that he had a fixed  
salary which  he paid himself  each month. Any lost income for the business  will need to be looked at 
separately. If Mr A has evidence of income  he personally lost, he should  send that for me to consider  
before I issue  my final decision. In this provisional  decision,  my award for distress and inconvenience 
takes into account  what  Mr A has said about there being times when he had no access to funds, 
including for meals. 
Taking all of this into account, I think compensation  of £5,000 is appropriate here.
Ref: DRN14392297my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties  which  
changes my mind, I intend  to uphold  this complaint  and direct Metro  Bank PLC to pay Mr A 
compensation of £5,000.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1439229