K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a used car he got with finance  provided by FirstRand  Bank  Limited 
(trading as MotoNovo  Finance) is of unsatisfactory quality. 
Mr C has been represented at times by a third party but Ive referred to anything thats been 
said on his behalf  as if Mr C had said it himself, to keep  things simple. 
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 20 December 2019. A copy of this provisional decision is attached  and it 
forms part of my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  what  Id decided  about this complaint and what I 
intended to do  subject to any further  submissions from the parties. Both parties have now 
responded. 
Mr C accepts my provisional decision but hes unhappy that he had to pay to insure the car 
while it was out of use and he asked me to take this into consideration. 
MotoNovo doesnt  accept  what  I have said and says (in summary):-
after 6 months of ownership the onus lies with Mr C to prove that faults were present 
or developing at the point of sale;
it asked Mr C to supply  a suitable  report showing there was a fault present or 
developing at the point of sale but he didnt;
MotoNovo spoke to the manufacturer and, whilst the manufacturer  agreed the issue  
with Mr Cs car initially looked as if it might  be due to the known fault, further 
investigation revealed that it was not related to the recalled part so the manufacturer  
did not accept  responsibility and refused to pay for repairs.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand it is frustrating for Mr C that he paid for insurance while this car was off the 
road. I understand  he bought another  vehicle during that time and I think it would  probably  
have been open to him to transfer or cancel this insurance if hed wanted to - which would 
have served to mitigate his losses. Im not persuaded that I can reasonably require 
MotoNovo to provide a refund in this respect,  in this situation. 
I have considered MotoNovos comments carefully. MotoNovo has acknowledged  that even 
the manufacturer here agreed initially that this breakdown  looked  as if it was due to the 
failure of the recalled  part. For the reasons set out in my provisional  decision, I remain  of the 
view that it was not fair or reasonable  for MotoNovo to insist that Mr C supply an experts 
report - in these particular circumstances. And I think it was open to MotoNovo to have the 
car checked independently, if it had reason to think there was another cause. 
l appreciate MotoNovo says the manufacturer  subsequently declined  to cover  the repairs 
because the recalled part wasnt at fault. And Ive seen a reference  in some correspondence  
Ref: DRN19306792from the manufacturer to the breakdown having resulted from an oil issue.  If the issue  here 
was oil related then I would have expected one of the dealers that MotoNovo contacted  in 
August 2018 to mention  this - but neither  of them did (in the call recordings that I have 
listened to).
The manufacturer wouldnt send Mr C any reports or findings in relation  to this car. Our 
investigator has also been unable to obtain  any further information from the manufacturer  - 
despite several emails  and phone calls. I understand MotoNovo has similarly  not been 
provided with the results  of any investigation  undertaken  by (or on behalf of) the 
manufacturer.
I cant be certain what went  wrong  with this car exactly, from the information Ive seen. But, 
for the reasons Ive explained already, I remain  of the view, that its more likely than not this 
car had an inherent  issue when it was supplied. And I see no fair or reasonable grounds to 
depart from my provisional conclusions. 
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and I require FirstRand Bank Limited  (trading as 
MotoNovo Finance) to:- 
1.refund  repair  costs of £1,225 along with recovery costs of £130 and £45 for 
diagnostic tests,  on provision of evidence of payment;
2.refund  any finance payments made from May 2018 until February  2019;
3.pay interest on the above  refunds  at 8% simple per year from the date of payment  to 
the date of settlement;
4.remove any adverse information  from Mr Cs credit file in relation to the period 
referred to at 2 above; and
5.pay Mr C £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
If MotoNovo considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest payment referred to above, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr C a tax deduction  certificate if he requests one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19306793copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains that a used  car he got with finance provided by FirstRand Bank Limited  (trading as 
MotoNovo) is of unsatisfactory quality. 
background
Mr C got this car in September 2017 with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from MotoNovo. It was 
three and a half years old, cost £7,250 and had 21,000 miles on the clock at the point of supply. In 
May 2018 the car broke down and had to be recovered to a local garage.  The garage found  evidence  
of coolant in the cylinders.  It told Mr C that the engine had overheated which  had damaged  the 
cylinder head  and block. The garage thought the engine  in Mr Cs car might have a known  
manufacturing defect and suggested he take the car to a main dealer  to be checked. 
Mr C had the car checked by two main dealers. He says they both agreed about  the cause of the 
breakdown and one said the number  of the engine  in his car did not match  the logbook, suggesting 
the engine had been replaced at some point. Mr C felt the car was mis-sold  and of unsatisfactory 
quality so he contacted MotoNovo. 
MotoNovo got in touch with both of the main  dealerships that had checked the car. The first one (that 
Ill refer to as C) confirmed coolant  was found in the engine cylinders  but said it hadnt investigated 
the specific  cause of that. The second  dealer (that Ill refer to as L) said the car has the correct engine  
fitted and this had overheated and needed replacing but the car was outside the manufacturers 
warranty period  and it was waiting to see what Mr C wanted to do. 
As Mr C had acquired the car ten months earlier and been able to drive it about  3,000  miles after that, 
MotoNovo thought it was unlikely the car was faulty when  he got it. MotoNovo told Mr C it would  
reconsider if he provided  an independent engineers  report showing the problem would have been 
present or developing  at the outset. 
Mr C had the car fixed in January 2019 and paid about £1,500 for a new engine, clutch  and turbo.  He 
told our investigator  he had to pay about another £1,000 for temporary  insurance, amongst other 
things, while the car was off the road. He says this whole  experience has been very stressful, he has 
now sold the car and he wants MotoNovo to reimburse  his financial losses. 
One of our investigators looked at the evidence. Hes satisfied  its likely this car had a significant  
engine problem which the manufacturer  has accepted  is a defect. He considers  the car was probably 
of unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply.  He recommends MotoNovo should  refund eight 
monthly payments (for the time Mr C was unable  to use the car) and reimburse  £130 recovery costs,  
£45 for diagnostic checks and £1,225 for repairs, plus interest.  
 
Mr C accepted this outcome but MotoNovo asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. It says (in 
summary) 
Mr C had the car for more than six months so the onus was on him (under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015) (CRA)  to show  that faults were present or developing at the point of supply; 
Mr C was able to drive over 2,856 miles  in about four months and hes unlikely to have been 
able to do that if the car was faulty when he got it;
theres no manufacturers recall for Mr Cs registration, a dealer has confirmed the cars got 
the correct engine and the manufacturer hasnt accepted liability  for the breakdown; and 
Mr C needed to provide  independent  evidence  in this situation but he didnt and theres  
nothing to show  that this car had faults present or developing at the point of supply. 
Ref: DRN19306794my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Where evidence is incomplete - as some of it is here - I make 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I consider what is most  likely to have 
happened, in the light of the available evidence  and the wider circumstances.
MotoNovo supplied  this car to Mr C under  a under  a HPA and it was obliged to ensure that the car 
was of satisfactory quality when he got it, under the CRA. This service provides informal dispute  
resolution and I must take account  of the relevant  law (amongst other things). Im satisfied this 
includes the CRA here. But, its not my role to apply the law - only a court  can do that. I make my 
decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable  - in all of the circumstances of this complaint. 
Theres no dispute that Mr Cs car broke down  in May 2018 and the engine had to be replaced. Mr C 
thinks the breakdown  was caused by the failure  of a specific part that the manufacturer  of this car has 
accepted was defective - namely a coolant hose. MotoNovo doesnt  think theres enough evidence to 
show what went  wrong with Mr Cs car. Given the time hes had it, the distance covered  and the fact 
the problem appeared more than six months after the car was supplied, it considers Mr C needs to 
provide evidence  that the car had an inherent issue present at the point of supply. 
I accept that 19(14) of the CRA says if goods do not conform to the contract (are of unsatisfactory 
quality for our purposes)  within six months of supply then theyre taken not to have conformed at the 
point of supply. But, I dont think that means any issue  arising after six months must not have been 
present at the point of supply. Section  19(15) of the CRA says the presumption under s19(14)  doesnt 
apply if its established goods did conform to the contract at the outset - or its application is 
incompatible with the nature of the goods or with how they failed to conform  with the contract. 
I dont think cars of this age and mileage usually  need the engine replacing. And Im satisfied, from 
paperwork Ive seen, that the relevant manufacturer has acknowledged there is an issue with a 
specific part in some  of its engines - like the one in Mr Cs car. I appreciate this doesnt mean that 
every breakdown involving this sort of engine  must have been  caused by this known defect. But, I 
think it is reasonable  to consider the manufacturers recall and its potential relevance to what 
happened here. 
The information available on the manufacturers website  says the recalled  part is a particular  type of 
hose. I have  listened to recordings of two calls MotoNovo made to C and L enquiring about the 
checks done  on Mr Cs car. I note the first person MotoNovo spoke to at L said the problem was due 
to a coolant leak and, given the engine involved,  the speaker thought that suggested it was probably 
due to the particular part thats subject to the manufacturers recall. I accept another  technician then 
came on the line and said the repairs required werent  covered  by the manufacturers warranty.  But, I 
think it would have been reasonable for MotoNovo to question L a bit further about  the likely role of 
the recalled part in the breakdown - given  the first technicians comments. 
In light of these comments, and the fact that Mr Cs car has the sort of engine that may contain the 
faulty part which the manufacturer had already identified  and subjected  to a recall,  I am minded  to find 
its more likely  than not this breakdown was caused by an inherent manufacturing issue. 
Ive seen an exchange of emails between the manufacturer and Mr C and I acknowledge the 
manufacturer hasnt accepted liability.  But I think the reason the manufacturer  gave Mr C for not doing  
so seems inconsistent with the findings of both main dealers. The manufacturer told Mr C that one of 
the dealers had said the problem with his car was caused  by oil, not coolant.  Whereas the evidence 
Ive seen indicates  both main dealers told MotoNovo that the issue was due to a coolant problem not 
an oil leak - and the third party garage that saw the car first identified the issue as coolant,  not oil 
related. 
Ref: DRN19306795On balance, I think  the evidence  suggests its more  likely than not this car had an inherent 
manufacturing issue.  If MotoNovo had any doubts about that, it could have arranged for the car to be 
inspected by an independent  third party. I appreciate MotoNovo felt it was up to Mr C to do this but I 
dont think that was fair or reasonable,  in these particular  circumstances. 
 
On the evidence  I have at the moment, I cant be absolutely certain what went wrong with this car. 
But, I wouldnt  expect  a car of this age and mileage to require a new engine,  in the usual course of 
events. I think  the available evidence suggests the nature of this breakdown was consistent with the 
failure of an engine part that the manufacturer has acknowledged may be defective  in this sort of car. 
This seems to be what L concluded was the most likely cause  initially and Im minded  to find, on 
balance, that this car probably had an inherent manufacturing issue. 
Im satisfied this issue  would  have been present or developing at the point of supply meaning the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality when Mr C got it. And I am inclined to agree  with our investigators 
recommendation that Mr C should have  the money he paid for recovery,  diagnostic checks and 
repairs refunded.  
Mr C has supplied an invoice showing he paid £1,225 to have the engine replaced. This says he paid 
another £296  for work to the clutch  and turbo at the same time. If this work was required as a direct 
result of the engine breakdown then I might be minded to find it fair that MotoNovo  should  refund the 
cost of this as well. But, I dont currently have sufficient evidence  to reasonably make such a finding. It 
is open  to Mr C to provide additional evidence in response to this provisional decision and I will take 
that into account  when I make my final decision.   
It looks as if Mr C was unable to use the car from May 2018 until February 2019 as a result of the 
faulty engine. I agree with our investigator he should have the monthly payments made during  this 
time refunded.  I note Mr C says he has incurred  additional costs in respect of insurance  and other 
things but I have no evidence about that. If Mr C is able to supply some more information - along with 
supporting documents  ideally - I will consider  this when  I make my final decision. 
As far as I can see Mr C maintained his repayments  towards the finance agreement but, in the event  
that MotoNovo recorded any adverse information on his credit file during the time the car was off the 
road, I consider this should be removed. Mr C has explained  how difficult  was for him to be without a 
car for such  a long time - the stress he experienced had an impact on his mental  health  and caused  
financial problems. I am minded to find MotoNovo should pay Mr C £200 compensation  for his upset 
and inconvenience.  
I now invite  the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further comments or 
information by the date below. After that Ill look at all of the available evidence and make my final 
decision. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I may receive from the parties  by  3 January 2020, my 
provisional decision  is I intend  to uphold this complaint  and require  FirstRand Bank Limited (trading  
as MotoNovo Finance)to:-  
1refund repair costs  of £1,225;  
2refund the cost of recovery £130 and £45 for diagnostic tests; 
3refund finance payments  made from May 2018  until February  2019;
4pay interest on the above refunds  at 8% simple per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
5remove any adverse  information from Mr Cs credit file for the period referred  to at 3 above;  
and
6pay Mr C £200 for distress  and inconvenience.  
Ref: DRN1930679