K820x#14complaint
Mrs R, through a Claims Management Company  (CMC)  has complained that Lloyds Bank 
PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  her three packaged  bank accounts - a Premier account in 2006, a 
Platinum account  in 2008 and a Premier account  in 2010. Mrs R has said that she was told 
that she would save money on her overdraft by having these accounts.
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mrs Rs complaint and didnt think  Lloyds mis-sold the packaged 
account on any occasion. The CMC disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  this complaint.
Mrs R held a fee-free  account prior to taking out any of these packaged bank accounts and 
had held an overdraft  on a free account. So I think that she would have been aware that she 
could have a fee-free account  with an overdraft facility. Mrs R has said that she was told that 
she would  save money on her overdraft by taking out these accounts. However, if she was 
told this then this would  be a correct statement as these  accounts did come  with interest free 
overdrafts up to a certain limit with preferential rates on the overdraft above the interest free 
portion. So I think  that Mrs R had a free choice  in taking out all of these accounts and she 
chose to do so.
Lloyds made  a personal recommendation when these accounts were  taken  out. Mrs R said 
that the benefits the account  came with were not suitable for her and that she could not use 
them. But given Mrs Rs use or registration  of the major benefits that the accounts came 
with, I think its fair to say that Mrs R did have a need for the benefits that the accounts came 
with. So I do not think that Lloyds recommendation was inappropriate given the overall 
circumstances.
Mrs R may not have been told everything  about  all of the benefits that the accounts came 
with. But I cannot  see anything specific that she was not told, that I think  wouldve altered 
her decision  to take out the accounts.
Taking everything into consideration I do not think that these accounts were msi-sold  so I do 
not think that Lloyds owes  Mrs R any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before8  April 2019.
Ref: DRN19778862Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1977886