K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance  plc (Tesco) has incorrectly charged him cash  
transaction fees and interest on his Tesco credit card.
background
Mr S has had a Tesco  credit card for approximately 15 years.  
Mr S bought a new car from a dealership who told him that hed be eligible for a £1,000 
discount if he did so using their finance agreement.  He says he asked the dealership  if hed 
still be eligible for the discount even  if he cancelled the agreement  and repaid the full amount 
within the 14-day  cooling  off period.  He says he was told he would. He says he called Tesco  
to increase the limit on his credit  card,  but that Tesco wouldnt increase it enough to allow 
him to repay the full amount in one go. So he paid half the amount, made  a payment towards 
his credit card to free up available credit  and then paid the balance.
Mr S says he noticed Tesco had applied additional  fees and charges when he received his 
next credit  card statement. He contacted Tesco to say he was unhappy  about  this. Tesco 
said that it had applied additional  fees and charges because he had used his credit card to 
repay a finance  agreement. Tesco said that it had sent its customers  a notice of variation in 
2018 explaining changes to the terms and conditions of its credit  card,  one of which was 
applying additional  fees and charges when the card was used to repay  a finance agreement.
Mr S was unhappy with Tescos response, saying that Tesco  should  have  made him aware 
of these charges  and fees when he called to increase his limit. He also said that he didnt  
believe the transactions should have been  classified as repaying a finance agreement as he 
was cancelling  the finance agreement  within  the 14-day cooling off period. He complained to 
Tesco, who disagreed. Tesco  suggested Mr S approach  the dealership to ask them to 
reclassify the transaction if they didnt believe it should be classified as a finance payment. 
Mr S spoke to the dealership who confirmed that hed withdrawn from the finance agreement  
and that theyd received full payment from him in the form of two credit card payments. The 
dealership has since refunded  the charges and interest applied to Mr Ss credit  card.  In other 
words, Mr S got the discount hed been promised and isnt out of pocket. He is, however, 
unhappy that Tesco didnt do more to alert him to the fact that transactions  used to repay  
finance agreements  are treated in the same way as cash  advances and are subject to fees 
and charges. He also believes Tesco shouldnt have applied these charges in the first place 
as he withdrew from the finance agreement.
An investigator looked at Mr Ss complaint  and didnt think  that Tesco had done anything 
wrong. Mr S disagreed and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tescos terms  and conditions are quite clear   if Mr S used his credit card to repay  a finance 
agreement then Tesco is entitled to apply additional charges to his account. Tesco sent Mr S 
a notice to say that it was varying its terms and conditions to this effect in 2018. Mr S has 
said that he doesnt remember getting this notice, nor would he have read it. But I dont 
agree thats  a reason  why Tesco shouldnt have been able to rely on it. The key question for 
Ref: DRN18134022me is whether these  payments  were payments to repay a finance agreement   as Tesco 
says  or not  as Mr S says.
A consumer  who has entered into a finance  agreement has a number of options  if they want  
to end the agreement. One of those option is to withdraw from the agreement.  Mr S signed 
the finance agreement at the dealers premises so he wouldnt have been able to rely on the 
right consumers have to cancel where theyve signed the finance agreement  other  than at 
the dealers or lenders  premises or where the dealer or lender havent had face to face 
contact with the consumer. But Mr S doesnt  need to rely on that right.  Thats because he 
also had a 14-day  cooling  off period during which he could withdraw from the agreement as 
long as certain exceptions (which  dont apply here) dont apply. Mr S exercised that right. But 
that wasnt the end of the matter. Hed already received the finance, so he had to repay it. 
He did so by making  two payments to the dealership.  I think  thats key. Mr S used his credit 
card to repay the dealership who in turn had provided the finance he was repaying. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  Tesco acted  unfairly  or unreasonably categorising  the 
transactions as repaying a finance  agreement.  Mr S wouldnt have owed the dealership  
money had he not entered  the finance  agreement  he did. Nor would he have got the £1,000  
discount from the dealership had he not done so.
Mr S isnt just unhappy about Tesco applying charges. Hes also unhappy that Tesco  didnt 
alert him to the fact that it applies  charges  when  its credit card is used to repay  a finance 
agreement. He says Tesco should have done  so when  he called to increase his credit limit 
so he could pay in one go. Ive listened to the call in question. Mr S made that call after hed 
already paid for half his car and wanted  to know if he could increase his credit limit so he 
could pay for the rest. He mentioned that hed recently received a letter offering him 
additional credit. More  importantly he didnt mention during the call that he was going to be 
buying the car on finance. So I dont agree that Tesco should have alerted Mr S that it 
applied charges when a credit card is used to repay  a finance agreement because  there was 
nothing to alert Tesco  to the fact that Mr S was going to be buying the car on finance. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
16 January 2020.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1813402