K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) has rejected a claim she made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section 75) for breach of contract.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2020.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mrs Ss complaint. An extract of that provisional  decision  is set out below:
Mrs S bought a used  car in October 2017. She paid £28,500 for the car and £4,500  of this 
through her Tesco credit  card.  The car was three years old and had completed 19,721 miles 
when it was purchased  by Mrs S.
She took the car back to the dealership in the first few days  as there  were  noises coming  
from it that she was unhappy  with. She says the dealership told her the noises were 
characteristic of this sort of four wheel drive car. So Mrs S took the car away but returned  in 
January 2018  to complain about the noises again,  only to be given the same advice.
She eventually brought the car back in August 2018  and it was booked in to the dealership  
to have the issue investigated.  
The dealership fitted some  tape to try to rectify  some of the noise but this didnt work and 
Mrs S was dissatisfied with the dealerships offer to remedy the situation.  She complained to 
the finance provider. She said that section  75 enabled her to make a like complaint to them 
for breach of contract and she wanted them to refund the money  shed spent on the car.
But Tesco didnt agree. They noted that the dealership had promised to fix the problems with 
the car and they thought  this was sufficient.
Mrs S therefore contacted  this service and in the meantime she organised  an independent 
inspection of the car. The inspector confirmed  that noises were present. There was a ticking  
from under  the bonnet and a knocking at the rear of the vehicle.
Our adjudicator thought there sufficient evidence to suggest Mrs S had reported these same 
issues very early on and that they were  therefore  most likely to be present when the car was 
purchased. He didnt  accept  Tescos argument  that the dealership  hadnt  attempted  a repair.  
He noted that the job card suggested  theyd fitted  tape in an attempt to eliminate one of the 
noises. He thought it was fair to say that their attempts to resolve the problems hadnt 
worked because  the independent inspector had noted the same  noises were still present. 
In those circumstances he thought  there had been a breach  of contract and he suggested 
that Tesco therefore take the car back from Mrs S and refund her purchase fee including  any 
interest she may have  paid on the purchase. He also suggested they pay her £100 to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  shed experienced. He noted that Mrs S 
had paid for the independent inspectors report to support  her claim and he thought it fair 
that Tesco refund that expense too. 
Mrs S accepted the adjudicators opinion  but Tesco didnt respond.  So the complaint was 
referred for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN13648302my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im expecting to uphold this complaint but with some changes from the redress our 
adjudicator suggested. I dont  think  it would  be fair, for instance, to ask Tesco  to refund the 
whole purchase  price as its clear  Mrs S has had some use from the car. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs S made a claim through them for 
breach of contract.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. So if theres  been a breach of contract here Mrs S has a like claim against Tesco  
who provided some of the finance.
Im persuaded that Mrs S has had problems with this car from the outset. I say that because  
I have found her testimony reliable and because I can see that the dealership  have referred 
to her visits in the first few months  of ownership.  They said the first visit related to a noise 
from the front of the car and the second  visit, in January 2018, related to a noise from the 
rear of the car.
Im persuaded that the noises havent  been  rectified  because the independent  inspection  
has confirmed noises  from both the front and rear of the vehicle and also because  the 
dealership havent contested the issue.
Im also persuaded  that an attempt to fix the problems has failed. I say that because the job 
card lists the work that was done  to apply tape. Its clear the rectification in August 2018  
wasnt simply a diagnostic  but a failed attempt  to rectify the fault.
The relevant  law says the quality of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs S. The car 
here was around  three years old and had travelled almost 20,000 miles.
Ref: DRN13648303I dont think a reasonable person would  expect continuous noise from the front and rear of a 
car of this age and mileage. I think its fair to say that the noises would  diminish the driving 
experience and that the consumer would be concerned they were signs  of deterioration in 
the vehicle. So Im persuaded that this car was not of satisfactory  quality when supplied  to 
Mrs S.
So I agree that Mrs S should be allowed to return the car and get her money  back. But the 
relevant legislation says that there  may be a deduction made for fair usage and here I notice 
that Mrs S has been able to drive the car for about  15,000 miles.
So Ive considered what a reasonable deduction for fair usage would be. Mrs S has driven  a 
reasonable mileage  in the car which I think is fair to say is about average. The car cost 
£28,650 but the CAP good value is currently £19,731 and thats the value the car is likely to 
be worth  at auction. So I think Tesco should  be allowed to deduct  the difference  between the 
sale price and the CAP good value (£8,919)  as a deduction for fair use.
But Mrs Ss use of the car has clearly been  impaired. The noises shes had to tolerate would 
Im sure have been irritating and a little worrying. So whilst shes had fair use of the car she 
should be compensated for the impaired use. In the circumstances  I think Tesco  should  
therefore pay 25% of the fair usage deduction back to Mrs S in recognition  of this impaired 
use. I calculate that figure as £2,229.75 (25% of £8,919).
I would agree with the adjudicators suggestion  that Mrs S should also receive some 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  this matter has caused her. Shes had, for 
instance, to take the car back to the dealership on several occasions, to organise  an 
independent inspection to prove her point and to spend time generating evidence in support 
of this complaint.  In the circumstances Id agree  that a payment of £100 is reasonable.
Mrs S has paid for an independent  inspection but I dont  think  it would be fair for her to fund 
this. So Im intending to ask Tesco  to refund this also and to add simple  interest  from the 
point of payment  to the date of settlement.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im currently expecting to uphold  this complaint and to tell 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
1.buy the car from Mrs S for the original purchase price;
2.they may retain the difference between  the purchase price  and the CAP clean  figure 
as a deduction for fair use. I calculate this fair use deduction as £8,919.00;
3.refund  25% of the fair use deduction  (above in 2.) to compensate Mrs S for the 
impaired use shes experienced. I calculate that as £2,229.75;
4.refund  any interest that may have been  charged  on the payment Mrs S made  using 
her credit  card;
5.pay Mrs S £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced;
6.refund  the cost of the independent inspection report and add 8% simple interest per 
annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN13648304my findings
Tesco didnt  respond but Mrs S did through her representative. So Ive reconsidered all of 
the available  evidence and arguments  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S was disappointed with my provisional decision. She reminded me that the car was a 
little over two years  old when she took receipt of it and not three  years  old as I had 
suggested.
She went on to explain  that it was Tesco  who had delayed  matters here and it had taken two 
and a half years to sort matters out. She said it was clear from the beginning that a repair 
had been attempted and it was not fair to suggest  she pay for any usage of the car. She said 
this wasnt putting  her back in the same position  she should be in if a breach of contract 
hadnt occurred.  She referred me to another case in which she said thered been no 
deduction for usage.
Ive thought about what Mrs S has said but Ive not been persuaded to change my initial 
view. Im required  to decide what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  and I dont 
think it would  be fair for Mrs S to have had use of the car without paying for it. I agree that 
use has been impaired  so Im suggesting Tesco return some  money  to Mrs S in recognition  
of that. 
Ive considered the other case Mrs S said was resolved without the need  to be referred to an 
ombudsman but Ive not been persuaded to change my view on this basis as I think its fair 
to suggest its unlikely the facts  in these two cases  would have been identical.
Im required  to decide what is fair and reasonable having had consideration to relevant law 
and procedure and I think, in those  circumstances, my provisional decision is a fair way to 
resolve this complaint and Ive not been  persuaded to change it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and to tell Tesco  Personal  Finance 
PLC to:
1.buy the car from Mrs S for the original purchase price;
2.they may retain the difference between  the purchase price  and the CAP clean  figure 
as a deduction for fair use. I calculate this fair use deduction as £8,919.00;
3.refund  25% of the fair use deduction  (above in 2.) to compensate Mrs S for the 
impaired use shes experienced. I calculate that as £2,229.75;
4.refund  any interest that may have been  charged  on the payment Mrs S made  using 
her credit  card;
5.pay Mrs S £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced;
6.refund  the cost of the independent inspection report and add 8% simple interest per 
annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept 
my decision  by 19 March 2020.
Ref: DRN13648305Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1364830