K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Virgin  Money plc rejected  their claim made  under  section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA).  They  want a refund of monies they paid for work 
which was never done. 
background
Mr and Mrs C tell us that in 2018  they entered into negotiations with a company Ill call CL 
in respect of home  improvements. They  advise  that payments  totalling  more than £17,000 
were made to CL. This consisted of payments from their Virgin credit  cards and a bank 
transfer. Mr and Mrs C state the work was never done and they believe  that CL never  
intended to do it. And that the company was set up for the purpose of defrauding consumers.  
They feel that Virgin should refund the money they paid.
Virgin told us that as the contract price for the goods  and services  was £31,970 it fell outside 
the limits  of section 75. So it had declined Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that Virgin would  
only be liable under section 75 if the price of the goods and/or services purchased was over 
£100 and not more  than £30,000. He said that as the total contract price here was £31,970 it 
fell outside the section  75 limits. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with this outcome. They felt the final price of the works hadnt yet 
been settled and should be regarded  as a quote. As its not been possible to resolve the 
complaint an ombudsmans been  asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really  sorry  to see that Mr and Mrs C have suffered a substantial  loss as the result of 
these circumstances.  It will come as little consolation that they were not alone in having 
been misled by CL. I understand  the company has now been dissolved.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  allows a customer to claim a refund  of money 
for goods and/ or services  they paid to a supplier when entering into an associated  credit 
agreement, like Mr Cs credit agreement with Virgin. Specific conditions apply to those 
claims which Ill come to later. 
Its worth  making clear  that Im not deciding Virgins liability under section 75 of the CCA - 
only a court could  do that. We take into account the relevant law and that includes section 
75. But we decide cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to 
do. What Im deciding  is whether Virgin did enough in considering  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
And if they didnt, what else should  they now do. And where facts are in dispute - as is the 
case here - Im required  to make my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive seen a letter from CL dated 6 March 2018 and which is addressed to Mr and Mrs C. In 
summary, this letter sets out the cost of the various services and includes potential  discounts 
which might  be available.  The letter concludes:
Portfolio price with maximum discount would  be £31,970.
Ref: DRN16128202Mr and Mrs C dont dispute  that the limits  set out in section 75 are fixed  and cant be altered 
by this service. But they contend that either  this figure  represented merely a quote and not a 
fixed contract price. Or - that as part of the quote included  items that might  not be required - 
it was likely the final price  - if the work  had gone ahead - wouldve been  within  the limits of 
section 75.
Whilst I understand their desire to seek every  avenue  open to them to recover their money 
Im afraid I dont consider that either  of these  factors assists their claim.  Ill explain why.
Ive already mentioned that specific conditions  attach  to section 75 before it can be used by 
consumers. Apart  from the cash sum limits which have been  referred  to earlier  there are also 
other limitations. The most relevant in these circumstances  is that its only where  theres 
been a misrepresentation and/or breach  of contract by CL that Virgin would be liable for its 
(CL) actions.
A misrepresentation is false  statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into an 
agreement and to suffer loss as the result of the misrepresentation. And a breach of contract  
might occur if the goods and/or  services for which  a consumer had contracted  werent 
supplied.
So if Mr and Mrs Cs contention was correct  - that the figure of £31,970  was only a quote 
and no contract had been finalised  - then it follows section 75 couldnt apply anyway. Clearly 
there cant be a breach  of contract if none  exists. And by the same logic there cant  be a 
misrepresentation if it doesnt induce  the consumer into entering a contractual agreement.
I also dont think theres  any basis for saying  that as only around  £17,000  had actually been 
paid this brings the case  within the limits of section 75. The legislation  is clear  that its the 
cash price which the supplier has attached to any single item (in this case  thats the single 
contract price)  which  is the determining factor. Not the amount that happens to have been 
paid at the time the complaint arises. 
I only mention the above out of completeness  and in order  to explain issues raised by Mr 
and Mrs C. Ive reached my final decision on the basis that the information available to me 
shows that the most probable price  for the whole contract was £31,970. I think it was 
reasonable for Virgin to deal with the claim on this basis.  And not to enter into speculation as 
to what mightve happened if works had actually commenced. There  is of course no 
guarantee that issues wouldnt  have  arisen which saw the final contract price increase.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs C. But Im not upholding 
this complaint. In my opinion, the single  item price  - that is the price  for the whole contract  - 
fell outside the limits of section 75. And on those grounds it was fair and reasonable for 
Virgin to refuse their claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN16128203Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1612820