K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc rejected his claim under  
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act in respect of an unsatisfactory cottage  that hed 
booked for a holiday.
Background
Mr T booked  a holiday cottage for two weeks over the Christmas period. The booking  was 
through a third party I will call H. Mr T and his wife spoke  to the owner  of the cottage  before 
they booked it to check that it was suitable  for their needs. This was very important to them 
because of their mobility issues and Mr Ts medical condition.
On arrival, Mr T and his wife were extremely upset by the accommodation which they say 
wasnt suitable for their needs. They had a number of complaints. But their key complaint, 
which they say prevented  them from staying  at the cottage, was that Mr T could  not get up 
the stairs  which is where the bedrooms and bathroom were  located. They  contacted the 
owner of the cottage who agreed to come to try to address the problems. But he never  
turned up. He suggested Mr T sleep on the sofa,  which wasnt  a reasonable solution, 
particularly bearing  in mind Mr Ts disability.  They  stayed  one night,  but then moved to a 
hotel. They explained  they couldnt return  home because theyd arranged for Mr Ts regular 
medical treatment to take place at hospital near the cottage. So they had to pay to stay in a 
hotel.
Mr T complained to H, but it wouldnt provide  him with a refund. So, because hed paid by 
credit card, he contacted Marks & Spencer  to make  a claim  under  section  75. The bank 
rejected his claim as it believed the required debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) link had been 
broken. It said that the holiday was provided  by the owner of the cottage, and not H.
Mr T brought  his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She agreed with the bank.
Mr T didnt  agree saying,  in summary, that he shouldnt  have  to pay for a holiday cottage that 
he was unable to use.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be:
A Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement; and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  in the chain.
Ref: DRN16344232The key to whether  Mr T has a valid claim lies in identifying the role of H. I have  looked  at 
the contract  and its website. These  identify it as an agent rather  than a supplier of the 
holiday. The terms  also say that the owner of the cottage is solely responsible  for providing 
the accommodation. 
I am satisfied that the role of H is as an intermediary in advertising  the cottage  and taking 
payment which  it passes on to the owner, or supplier. That means  the DCS link is broken. 
I would add that there is no evidence of an associated relationship between the owner and H 
as defined in the legislation. I appreciate this may well appear to be a technicality, but as the 
law is currently  drafted  I dont find that Mr T has a section 75 claim against the bank.  
Therefore, whilst I have every sympathy with Mr T, I cannot uphold  his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1634423