K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about the sale of a Free Standing Additional Contribution  (FSAVC) 
Plan that was sold by Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited. He says Sanlam didnt  give 
him enough information about the in-house  options  he had with his employer for topping up 
his pension provision.  
Mr S is being represented by a third party. For ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr S.
background
Mr S received advice  from Sanlam  (formerly the MI Group)  in 1991. At the time he was 31 
years old, was working as a doctor  for the NHS and was a member of the NHS 
superannuation scheme (NHSSS). 
As a result of the advice,  Mr S chose to start contributing to an FSAVC plan. He initially  
contributed just over £133 per month.  But following further advice from an independent 
financial adviser in 1993, this was increased  by a further £53 per month. Mr S stopped  his 
contributions to the FSAVC in 1995  and the plan was made  paid up. 
Mr S complained about the sale of the plan in 2018.  He said that he wasnt  made aware of 
the full risks and implications of the FSAVC  plan, or that the charges were higher than the in-
house AVC options that he had through the NHSSS.  He said he shouldve  been advised to 
buy added  years within the NHSSS.  Salam thought the complaint had been made out of 
time under the relevant rules so it didnt  investigate it further. Mr S didnt agree  with this so 
he referred his complaint  to this service for consideration. 
Our service was satisfied  the complaint had been made  in time so one of our investigators 
considered the merits of the complaint. The investigator concluded that Salam  had failed to 
make Mr S aware  of the in-house options  he had for topping up his pension  through his 
employer. However, having considered the information  on file, she didnt think that Mr S 
wouldve opted to purchase added years  in the NHSSS. Instead  she felt that he wouldve 
most likely joined the in-house  AVC arrangement.  
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He said he wouldve purchased added years  in 
the NHSSS if hes been given adequate  information and the fact that he increased  his 
premiums supported the fact that he couldve afforded to buy them.  
Salam responded to the investigators opinion and explained that it considered  its liability for 
any loss should  be capped at the point when Mr S received advice to increase his 
contributions to the FSVAC plan from an independent financial adviser 1993. 
The complaint has been passed  to me to reach  a final decision on this matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN14778362I think its important to note the adviser that provided the advice to Mr S in 1991 was tied to 
Sanlam. This means they werent in a position to investigate whether the in-house options 
were better than the FSAVC. All they could do was provide advise on products offered by 
Sanlam. However, the rules in place at the time Mr Ss plan was sold required the adviser  to:
have regard to the consumers financial position generally and to any rights they may
have under a workplace  pension; and
give the consumer  all information relevant to their dealings  with the representative in
question.
Having considered the paperwork  from the time of the sale, I cant see that Salam informed 
Mr S of the in-house  options he had for topping up his pension  provision within  the NHSSS. 
Ive therefore  gone  on to consider whether I think this would have made  a difference.  In 
other words, if hed been given sufficient information, would Mr S have gone ahead with the 
FSAVC or would he have  opted for one of the in-house alternatives. 
The cost of added years of service  in the NHSSS  was determined by the Government
Actuary using  conservative assumptions of likely future investment experience. This made
them more  expensive than if a less conservative (or more  optimistic) set of assumptions  had
been used. The aim was to make sure, as far as possible, that the cost of added years
would be met by the members. The intention was that this would mean there would be no
shortfall that would have  to be picked up by the employer.
On realistic assumptions of future investment experience at the time of the advice it would
probably have  been  shown that the projected benefits from the money purchase approach
(the in-house AVC) would be greater than the projected added years  benefits. Therefore,
in my opinion, the money purchase  approach wouldnt have been unsuitable for Mr S.
Theres no evidence from the time to show that he was unwilling to take any investment risks 
and his general circumstances suggest  that he wouldve been able to take some  risk. If Mr S 
had paid for added years  he wouldve  had to give up a set percentage of his salary. So the 
amount he paid wouldve increased as his pay increased over the years. 
I accept that Mr S could  most likely have afforded to purchase some added years. And that 
he did increase  his contributions two years after the plan first started. But Im of the view that 
he wouldve been  more  likely to opt for the in-house  AVC as opposed to purchasing added  
years. 
Theres no documentation  to show  what Mr Ss attitude to risk was at that time of the sale.  
However, Im conscious that he S stopped  contributing  to his plan in 1995.  When asked why 
he did this he said that it was because his plan wasnt  performing well. This suggests to me 
that he wouldve  been prepared to take some risk with his investments. So I think  this means 
that hes far more likely to have  taken the in-house AVC option,  as opposed to the risk 
adverse option  of added  years. 
Its only now, with the benefit of hindsight, that we know that Mr S might  have been better
off with the added years.  And a major factor in this is that the investment returns achieved
have been much lower  than expected.  But that wasnt anticipated at the time and I cant  use
hindsight when making my decision.
Given the above, Im not satisfied that Mr S wouldve purchased  added  years within  the 
NHSSS. Instead, I think if hed been  given enough information, its most  likely he wouldve 
Ref: DRN14778363opted to contribute to the in-house AVC scheme.  For these reasons, I agree with the 
investigator that Salam should complete  a calculation   on a charges only basis  - to see if 
Mr S has suffered a loss. 
However, Im conscious that Mr S received advice from an independent  financial  adviser  in 
1993. As a result  he chose to increase the contributions to his FSAVC. Ive therefore 
considered whether its appropriate to cap Sanlams liability at the point that the new adviser  
became involved.  And having  thought carefully  about this, I think its appropriate in this case. 
The new financial  adviser ought to have recommended  or at least  made Mr S aware of  
the in-house options he had with his employer. The adviser doesnt appear to have done  that 
and instead compounded Mr Ss position  by advising that he increase contributions to his 
FSAVC. It seems therefore that the new adviser  had taken over responsibility for advising 
Mr S about  the suitability  of his FSAVC.  For this reason, Im only asking  Salam  to complete 
a calculation comparing the difference in the charges applied  to Mr Ss FSAVC from the start 
of the plan until he increased  his contributions in 1993. 
Putting things  right
Sanlam should  undertake  a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC  
review guidance,  incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC  review guidance wasnt intended  to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark  index is 
used to calculate the difference  in charges and (if applicable)  any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private  Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index.  So where  the calculation  requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared  after 1 January 
2005, Sanlam  should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should  if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would  have been taxed according  to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 40%.  So making a notional deduction of 30% overall  from the loss 
adequately reflects  this.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint. I require Sanlam Financial 
Services UK Limited to put things right by doing  what Ive set Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN14778364Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1477836