K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about the additional premium Liverpool  Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited (LV)  charged her after shed  taken out car 
insurance with it.
background
Mrs H had car insurance with LV, which  ended  in March  2017. She 
didnt renew  the policy due to illness. In May 2017 her son Mr J took out 
a new policy with LV on Mrs Hs behalf. He did this through a price 
comparison website. 
Shortly after Mrs Hs new policy was set up LV said she hadnt told it 
about an accident  shed had in 2014.  If she had, it said it would have 
charged her an additional premium. It said she must pay it an additional  
£109.73 (the additional premium including a £15 admin fee).
Mr J said he had told LV about the 2014  accident both when  applying for 
the policy  and for the previous years policy. But LV said he hadnt told it 
and as it was a new policy, rather  than a renewal, the information hadnt 
carried over from the previous year.  Mrs H paid the additional premium, 
because she said the matter  was causing so much  distress. 
In response to Mrs Hs complaint,  LV said it would  reduce the premium  
by £40 as a gesture of goodwill  but it wouldnt refund it in full. It also said 
if she cancelled  the policy it would  waive its usual  £40 cancellation  fee, 
but not the additional premium shed paid.  On his mothers  behalf,  Mr J 
came to us. 
Our adjudicator  upheld  the complaint.  He said that under the relevant 
legislation LV hadnt  been  entitled to charge Mrs H the additional 
premium. And although it had offered her the chance  to cancel the 
policy, LV hadnt  offered  to refund to her the additional  premium shed 
paid. He said it should refund her the additional premium, with interest, 
and pay her £50 compensation  for distress and inconvenience. LV didnt 
agree and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint. In 
Ref: DRN11082582doing so, I need to take into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
Having carefully  considered all the evidence, I uphold this complaint. I 
think the settlement  proposed by our adjudicator is a fair one. Ill explain 
why, and in doing so Ill comment  on the main points  made by LV. 
the relevant law
The relevant law here is the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (the Act). Section  2(2) of the Act makes 
clear that consumers have a duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to an insurer.  
Section 4(1)(b) of the Act says the insurer has to show  that any 
misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation.  The Act says 
that the insurer has a remedy  for a misrepresentation only if the 
consumer made  a misrepresentation  and the insurer shows  that without  
the misrepresentation the insurer would not have entered into the 
contract (the insurance policy) at all, or would  have done  so only on 
different terms.
Section 4(3) says if the consumer has not taken reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation the only remedies available to the insurer are 
the ones set out in Schedule 1. 
Under Schedule 1 of the Act an insurers remedies for careless  
misrepresentation are based on what it would have done had the 
consumer taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
(paragraph 4).
Under Schedule 1 of the Act paragraphs  7 and 8, where  the insurer 
would have charged an additional premium if it had known the full facts it 
is allowed to proportionately reduce the payment on a claim.
Where there hasnt  been a claim,  Schedule 1 sets out the treatment of 
the contract for the future. Under paragraph 9(4) where  an insurer would 
have the right to reduce the amount it will pay on a future claim, it may:
Ref: DRN11082583(a) give notice to that effect to the consumer, or
(b) cancel the contract by giving  reasonable notice to the 
consumer. 
Paragraph 9(6) says that if the insurer gives notice that it will reduce 
payments under a future claim,  the consumer has the right to terminate 
the policy  with reasonable  notice. And paragraph 9(7) says that if either  
the insurer or consumer  terminates the policy, the insurer must refund 
any premiums paid for the terminated  cover in respect of the balance of 
the policy  term.
did Mrs H fail to take reasonable  care?
Mr J applied  for the policy on Mrs Hs behalf, and he is very clear that he 
did give LV information  about  the 2014 accident. LV disputes  this. It 
refers to the print-out from the comparison website, which shows zero  
under total claims and total  incidents.  And the 2017 policy schedule, 
under claims or accidents in the last 5 years (including any information 
only accidents) says none. So LV says that Mrs H should have 
realised a mistake had been made. 
Mrs Hs son says that the comparison website information must  be 
incorrect or have  been corrupted, as the print-out shows  answers  to 
questions he hadnt  answered and, in any event, were incorrect; one 
example is where it asks about children under 16 and it says one. 
Theres no suggestion  that there was any deliberate  failure  by Mr J to 
inform LV of the accident. After all hed told LV about the 2014 accident 
the previous policy  year. There  might have been a genuine oversight.  
But even if he didnt take reasonable  care I still think  a fair outcome  is for 
LV to refund the additional premium and pay Mrs H £50 compensation. 
Ill explain why, with reference to LVs arguments about the Act.
the additional premium
LV says that if Mr J had told it about the 2014 accident when applying for 
the 2017 policy, then it would have entered into the policy on different 
terms. And those different terms are that it would have charged Mrs H a 
higher premium. This means that the careless misrepresentation is a 
qualifying misrepresentation. But charging Mrs H the additional premium  
is not one of the remedies. The Act explicitly says that the only remedies 
Ref: DRN11082584available for a qualifying misrepresentation are the ones set in Schedule 
1. There are no circumstances  in which the Act says an insurer can 
charge a consumer an additional premium. 
LV says Schedule 1(4) of the Act says the insurers  remedies are based 
on what it would have  done  if the consumer had taken  reasonable care.  
Thats correct, and any claim  would have been reduced proportionately  
based on the amount of premium  actually charged  and the higher 
premium. 
LV should reasonably have explained to Mrs H the consequences of the 
misrepresentation; that is, that it would make a proportionate settlement 
under any claim  that policy year. If it had done that then it might  have 
reached an agreement with her to keep the policy in place in return  for 
an additional premium,  to avoid any future proportionate  payment. But it 
didnt do that. And the Act doesnt allow LV to insist on Mrs H paying  the 
additional premium.  I dont see any reason to depart from the Act in the 
circumstances of Mrs Hs complaint.  
LV says that it did offer Mrs H the chance to cancel the policy without its 
usual £40 cancellation  fee. I agree it did make that offer. But the offer 
was made after Mrs H had paid the additional premium because of the 
distress the matter  was causing  her and Mr J. Also,  when offering  to 
waive the cancellation fee LV told Mrs H it wouldnt refund  the £109.73 
additional premium  shed paid. So I can see why she didnt cancel the 
policy, and pursued her complaint instead. 
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think a fair and reasonable outcome  in 
this case is for LV to refund to Mrs H the £109.73 additional premium 
she paid to it. It should also pay her £50 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, which I think is fair in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. I order Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited to:
refund to Mrs H the additional premium it charged her of £109.73. 
It must  add interest* to this amount at the simple rate of 8% per 
year from the date she paid the additional premium  to the date it 
makes the settlement payment to her, and
Ref: DRN11082585pay to Mrs H £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited must  pay the total 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs H 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest* on the compensation  from the date of my final decision  until the 
date of payment  at 8% per year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im required to 
ask Mrs H to accept or reject  my decision before  23 February 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Liverpool Victoria Insurance  Company  Limited considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should  tell Mrs H how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mrs H a certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1108258