K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms K have complained about  the way S.J.Adams & Co. (Insurance) Ltd (SJA) 
handled the renewals of their businesss commercial combined  insurance policy  between  
2015 and 2018. 
For ease of reading, any reference to SJA includes its agents and appointed 
representatives. 
background
SJA was Mr and Ms Ks broker for a number  of years. In 2015  the broker theyd previously 
used at SJA retired  and they transferred to a new one with SJA.  Mr and Ms K renewed their 
policy in 2015,  2016 and 2017. But in 2018 they approached other  insurance  brokers for a 
quote. After being offered a much  cheaper premium  by other  brokers,  Mr and Ms K decided  
not to renew through SJA. 
Mr and Ms K complained to SJA as they didnt think SJA had done enough in 2015, 2016  
and 2017 to obtain cheaper quotes.  Mr and Ms K also complained that SJA had been 
negligent in 2017, as it hadnt obtained renewal  quickly enough which meant  it needed to 
apply for a seven-day extension to the policy. Mr and Ms K were  also unhappy that theyd  
provided information for renewal in March 2018,  yet still had to chase SJA in May 2018 as 
theyd received no response. 
SJA said it had a limited number of insurers  available and had provided  a quote based  on 
that research. It said it had approached the insurer Mr and Ms K ultimately insured through 
elsewhere in 2018,  but that insurer had declined  to quote through  SJA.  SJA said it hadnt  
been negligent as the underwriter had been on holiday and there  hadnt  been a break in 
cover. 
Mr and Ms K remained unhappy  and brought their complaint to us. They  questioned  whether 
SJA had a special relationship with the insurer  which  meant it kept placing the policy  with 
that insurer even  though  is wasnt in their best interests. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Ms Ks complaint but didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He 
didnt think hed seen  anything to show SJA hadnt acted in Mr and Ms Ks interests and 
didnt think it had been negligent  as there  wasnt a break in cover. He also didnt think the 
lack of response between March  2018 and May 2018 was enough to recommend any 
compensation. He thought Mr and Ms K were free to buy a policy  elsewhere if they wanted 
to. 
Mr and Ms K didnt agree. They didnt think there was any evidence to show  that SJA had 
conducted a thorough search of the market. They didnt think  SJA had acted in their best 
interests and thought  this had led to them paying double  what  they could have done for their 
policies in 2015, 2016 and 2017. They asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Renewal premium
Ref: DRN16594382SJAs Terms  of Business say it offers policies from a range of insurers, but in some 
circumstances it might only offer products from one supplier or from a preferred supplier. 
However, it says in these  circumstances it will let the policyholder know. SJA said it carried  
out a review of Mr and Ms Ks demands  and needs  each  year.  
In 2016 I can see that the renewal paperwork says we have  only approached a limited  
number of insurers. In 2018 SJA told Mr and Ms K at renewal that it had approached  their 
existing insurer which they thought  met their needs. 
SJA doesnt seem to have  told Mr and Ms K how many insurers  it approached in 2015 or 
2017. But it has provided some handwritten notes which showed in 2017 it approached other 
insurers who declined to offer a quote. While its unhelpful that these notes  are undated, I 
havent seen anything to make me think these calls didnt take place. 
Given that SJA approached a limited number of insurers in 2016 and 2017 I think  its likely it 
did the same  in 2015. I do think it should  have clarified this when sending  the renewal  
invitation to Mr and Ms K in 2015 and 2017 but given  Mr and Ms K renewed the policy when  
they had that information  in 2016,  I think  its likely they would still have  renewed  if SJA had 
been clearer in 2015 and 2017. 
I can understand why Mr and Ms K are frustrated at the possibility that they may have been 
able to buy a much cheaper  policy in previous years. But brokers arent required to search 
the whole  market. I think SJA has always been clear about  the premium  of the policy  its 
offered, and its let Mr and Ms K know that it only approaches a limited range of insurers. In 
setting out that it does  that I think SJA has done  what it needs to when offering the policy.  
Different brokers will offer different policies and it was open for Mr K and Ms K to shop 
around for a different  policy in earlier  years. 
Negligence in 2017
I do think SJA could  have  been more proactive in contacting the underwriter  for renewal 
sooner to avoid  having to secure  an extension.  However, I havent seen anything to show  
this caused Mr and Ms K any financial loss as they chose to renew their policy. And the 
extension would have  given them time to approach  other  brokers if theyd wanted to. 
Lack of contact in 2018
Again, I can understand why Mr and Ms K were frustrated  at making contact in March 2018  
and not getting a response until they chased for an answer in May. But I dont think  this 
caused them  any additional inconvenience.  I say that because they ultimately  approached  
other brokers and were able to secure  a much  cheaper policy.  So, Im not going to require  
SJA to compensate  Mr and Ms K for not contacting  them sooner.
I can understand why Mr and Ms K are unhappy  with SJA, but as Im not persuaded SJA 
caused them  a financial loss Im not going  to instruct them to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above my final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN16594383Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 October  2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1659438