K822xcomplaint
Mr F is unhappy  that The Share Centre Limited have deduced  fees from an account 
transferred to them following the liquidation  of his previous  provider. He asks that the fees 
are refunded  and that hes compensated for the trouble this has caused.
background 
Mr F had an account with an investment company who are no longer  trading. Before they 
ceased trading,  he had begun transferring his account to another  broker.  But while  his 
holdings were transferred,  a residual cash balance of £19 remained on his account when the 
company were put into administration. 
The administrators  of the company wrote  to him in August 2018 to let him know  that The 
Share Centre had been appointed as the nominated broker  and that his account would be 
transferred in due course. A further letter was sent later in August which included The Share 
Centres terms of business,  charging  structure  and key features  it was also explained that 
Mr F could  transfer out without charge  within the first three months.  In late September 2018, 
Mr Fs £19 was transferred to The Share Centre  and a letter  of confirmation  was sent.  
Mr F went away in November 2018 and didnt return until February 2019. 
The Share Centre they wrote  to him in mid-December 2018 to let him know that as his 
account only had a small cash balance they intended on closing it rather  than continuing to 
deduct fees, unless they heard from him. 
As Mr F was away during that time, he of course was unable  to reply.  His account was 
closed in mid-January  2019 and a cheque for the proceeds was sent.  However, the cheque 
was for £13.60  rather than the full £19 as The Share Centre had applied monthly charges of 
£1.80 to the sum. Three months charges  for October, November and December 2018 
totalling £5.40 had been applied.
When Mr F retuned home  in February 2019,  he discovered The Share Centre  letters within  a 
large pile of post.  In early March 2019,  Mr F got in touch with The Share Centre to query 
what had happened   he said hed arrived home to see the cheque but hed never asked  for 
any involvement from them, nor had he opened an account. He asked for the full cash  
amount to be sent instead.
The Share Centre looked into his concerns but didnt agree theyd done anything  wrong  or 
charged the fees unfairly  they pointed out that the notification  about their involvement and 
their fees were sent out before Mr F went away. 
Unhappy with this, Mr F asked for our help. One of our investigators  looked into what had 
happened  while The Share Centre  didnt think  theyd done anything wrong, they offered to 
pay Mr F the additional £5.40  to bring the matter to a close. Our investigator  thought  this was 
a fair offer. He didnt  think  it was The Share  Centres  fault that a residual cash  balance had 
remained on the account and that it was transferred to them. He also thought theyd done 
enough to let him know about the charges,  so he didnt agree that any further compensation 
was due.
Ref: DRN18199862Mr F didnt  accept the offer  he said he received a lot of junk mail and it wasnt  fair to expect 
him to spend  so much time going through it all. He said hed opened  an account with The 
Share Centre some  time ago, but closed it after hed seen their spreads. He also thought it 
was rather unnecessary of the administrators to find an alternative platform  to simply hold 
£19, and that he didnt remember the administrators  making any reference  to The Share 
Centre anyway. Remaining unhappy,  Mr F asked for the case  to be reconsidered. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  Mr F feels  very strongly  that 
The Share Centre have acted unfairly  here.  But from everything Ive seen, I dont agree 
theyve done anything wrong.
Ive looked at the communication sent regarding the transfer, and I think it was sufficient  to 
let Mr F know what was happening as well as to explain that a charge would be imposed. 
The information provided by both the administrators and by The Share Centre was high level 
and had to cover off some  very important  points. While the charges were not particularly 
drawn to Mr Fs attention,  I do see that information about them was provided  and it was only 
reasonable to expect  Mr F to review the paperwork.
While Mr F was away from home when some of the developments  unfolded, he appears to 
have been around during the summer  of 2018 when the administrators wrote to let him know  
what was happening.  Ive seen that The Share Centres welcome letter was sent to the same 
address we hold for Mr F too  this was sent on 20 September 2018  before he left the 
country. So I think The Share Centre did enough to let him know about their role and what to 
expect.
Mr F says he received voluminous paperwork from the administrators  while theyre not 
the subject of this complaint, I do see that they were  handling something which affected a 
considerable number of customers and they had some important  messages  to share. So I 
dont think this means it was reasonable for Mr F to ignore it. And while  I take Mr Fs point 
about unsolicited  mail, I do think it was entirely reasonable of The Share Centre  to have 
written to him and for him to have opened these letters. 
I know Mr F is also unhappy that the administrators  involved The Share Centre  but this 
isnt something that we can look into. While Mr Fs account only held a small amount of 
cash, the administrators had to act in the interests of all clients,  many of whom would have 
held stock, and appoint another broker to transfer  to. Mr F was treated in the same way as 
the other clients, so his account was opened despite  the fact it only held a small amount of 
money. 
Mr F wants to know why The Share Centre  were  selected by the administrators and what 
they stood to gain from the situation  he thinks  it was a scam that needs exposing.  But from 
everything Ive seen, it was simply the case that the administrators needed  to help clients 
gain access to their assets by way of another broker. Why this company were  chosen and 
others were  not is not something  our service is here to evaluate. 
Ref: DRN18199863So while it was unfortunate Mr Fs cash wasnt transferred before his previous provider went 
into administration, I dont  think The Share Centre  did anything wrong in receiving the cash  
and holding  the account subject to their usual terms. I think  sufficient notification  was given 
to Mr F before his trip, and The Share  Centre  cannot  be at fault for him neglecting  to read 
this. 
I also dont think Mr F can say he was entirely unaware of The Share Centres involvement  
thats because  when he contacted them in March 2019 he replied on an email thread  which  
theyd sent him in late November 2018, regarding improvements being  made  to their 
website. So he could  have contacted  them by email  if he wanted to query  why he was being 
sent information on improvements to an account  he didnt believe he had. 
I see The Share Centre have offered to refund him the £5.40 which had been charged,  and I 
think this offer is sufficient  to settle  the complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that the offer already made by The Share Centre  
Limited is enough to settle the complaint and they need not do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr F to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 18 October 2020.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1819986