K821x#15complaint
Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H complain about annual statements sent to all four of them in 
November 2017  by Leeds Building Society  (LBS).
background
Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H hold a joint savings account with LBS. This was opened in 
2006.
In 2017 LBS sent an annual statement to Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H. Each of these 
statements contained (for the relevant individual) details of the accounts they held, whether 
held solely  or jointly.
Mrs V complained to LBS about the sending of these statements. She said details of the joint 
account should have been  sent to her only, and not to Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H.
LBS responded to Mrs V to say that it was required  to send each of its customers  an annual  
statement along the lines it had sent her, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H in 2017 and it would need 
to continue doing so each  year going forward.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators.  She concluded that LBS had 
done nothing wrong.
Mrs V didnt agree and so the matter  was passed to me for review  and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2018. In summary I said:  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary  Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H complain that in sending  them  the 
annual statements that it did in 2017,  LBS has:
breached their privacy, data protection and their human rights under the 
Human Rights Act 1998
misrepresented the joint account they hold as being a sole account   with 
each of them having an absolute right to the entire balance   causing 
confusion
changed one or more  addresses without notification or consent
 sent one or more  annual statements to the wrong address
As LBS has explained,  its obliged to send these statements and I cant  reasonably 
ask it to stop doing so. But in any event, the issue of whether or not LBS has 
breached the Human Rights Act 1998 isnt something that falls within  the scope of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. Thats a matter  for the courts  to determine.
Ref: DRN17342702But even if it wasnt a requirement for LBS to send  annual statements along the lines 
that it did to Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H, I cant see that the information these 
statements contained could be said to be incorrect, misleading or inappropriate.
Ive looked at all four annual statements and Im satisfied that all four make  it clear in 
what capacity the account subject to this complaint is held, that being its held jointly  
between Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H. So I dont think its reasonable for 
Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 or Mrs H to conclude  that the sum recorded  as being the 
account balance  is entirely theirs. 
I would also add that I cant see that the information sent by LBS could be said, in 
itself, to be a breach  of privacy. Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H were only sent 
details of accounts they had an interest  in, nothing else.  Put another way, 
Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 or Mrs H werent  sent details of any accounts held in the sole 
name of another. 
I would also add that if there was ever a dispute between Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and 
Mrs H as to the ownership of the funds in the account subject to this complaint, or 
any of them  and another party (for example a spouse), then such  a dispute would be 
a matter for the courts to decide, or for them to decide between  themselves, not LBS.  
Its also my understanding that if there was ever a dispute between any of the 
account holders  and a spouse then the existence of the account subject to this 
complaint would need to be disclosed to the spouse  as part of any divorce 
proceedings.
Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H submit that one or more annual  statements sent out 
by LBS were sent to an incorrect address.
Having looked  at what both parties  have said and submitted it appears that LBS sent 
Mr V2s annual statement to a different address  to the one he had provided when the 
joint account subject  to this complaint was opened.  Now LBS has provided an 
explanation as to why this happened. 
But regardless of why this happened its my view that LBS should  have been fully 
aware that by sending  documents  to a different address to that provided by Mr V2 on 
the joint account being opened there  was a real risk that they wouldnt be received by 
Mr V2 and that they might be received, and read, by an unconnected third party.
But were  not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish a business. Our 
awards arent punitive. So when thinking  about  whether to award compensation and 
if so how much, I look at the impact of a businesss actions on the consumers. I also 
look at the awards  weve made in other similar cases. 
Now I accept Mr V2s statement contains  some  information pertaining to 
Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H. But from what Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H have 
told us they havent suffered any financial loss as a result of Mr V2s statement being  
sent to the address that it was. So with this in mind, and having regard to the 
information contained in Mr V2s statement and what all the parties  have said about 
the distress this caused them,  I find that LBS should  pay Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and 
Mrs H £100.
Ref: DRN17342703Now I dont underestimate Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs Hs strength  of feeling on 
LBS sending Mr V2s statement to the address that it did, and that doing so might 
constitute a data protection breach. But its not our services role to decide whether a 
data protection  breach has occurred, but the Information Commissioners  Office 
(ICO). So if Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H still have  concerns about a possible 
data protection  breach on the part of LBS,  and they would like to peruse this issue  
further, then I can only suggest they consider taking this up with the ICO themselves 
directly.
LBS responded to say that although it agreed with the majority of my findings it disagreed  
that it should have to pay £100 for sending Mr V2s annual statement to a different address 
to the one he had provided  when the joint account subject to this complaint was opened. It 
also provided further information as to why this might  have  happened. LBS also said that this 
particular point wasnt raised in the original complaint submitted to it and so it should be 
given the opportunity to consider it as separate and distinct complaint and issue a final 
response on it.
Mrs V responded to say that she disagreed  with my findings. In summary she said:
Her, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H require all future  correspondence/statements  in respect  
of the joint account  subject  to this complaint be sent to her address.
All statements  for the joint account subject to this complaint should clearly show  it to 
be a joint account (in the names  of her, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H). And any 
statements in respect of accounts held in a sole capacity (whether in the names of 
her, Mr V1, Mr V2 or Mrs H) should be sent to their own and respective addresses.
Heading up each  annual statement  with Your savings: [£xx.xx] The total amount 
held in your account with us at 31/10/17 is misleading. Anybody reading this would 
conclude that the sum of £xx.xx was held solely rather than jointly (in full or in part).
The joint account  terms  and conditions state  all information regarding the Account 
will only be sent to the first named account holders registered  address.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having thought  about  all the information  
about the complaint again,  along  with what both parties have said in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think this complaint should be upheld  in part. And I still think £100 
is a fair amount  of compensation to put things rights.
I accept that Mrs V didnt  specifically complain to LBS that Mr V2s statement had been sent 
to a different  address to the one he provided  when the joint account subject to this complaint 
was opened. But she did complain to LBS about it sending statements to a number of 
addresses rather than just hers. So I think its fair to say that the specific  point that Mr V2s 
statement had been sent to a different address  could be viewed as simply being  an 
expansion on, or clarification around, Mrs Vs complaint about LBS sending statements to a 
number of addresses rather than just hers.
But even if I wasnt of the above  view Im satisfied that requiring Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and 
Mrs H to make a separate complaint on this particular point would be unfair, unreasonable, 
and unpragmatic. Furthermore, LBS has had time to provide its comments on this particular 
point and has done so, both prior to me issuing my provisional decision  and in response to it.
Ref: DRN17342704Ive considered what LBS has said is the likely reason as to why Mr V2s statements was 
sent to a different address to the one he provided  when the joint account  subject to this 
complaint was opened. But Im not persuaded this reason means  LBS shouldnt  have to pay 
compensation. The fact remains  that regardless of the reason as to why Mr V2s statement 
was sent to a different address, Mr V2 didnt give his permission for this address to be used. 
Taking everything into account  I remain of the view that LBS should pay Mrs V, Mr V1, 
Mr V2 and Mrs H £100 for this error.
Mrs V says that the annual statements sent to her, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H are misleading 
given how the first page of each is headed  up. But even if I was to agree with Mrs V on this 
point, which  I dont,  these  documents  need to be read in their entirety. And if read in their 
entirety there is in my view no ambiguity.  Put another way, its my view that it should  be clear 
to anybody reading these documents in their entirety  precisely  in which  capacity each 
account is held.
I accept that the terms and conditions of the joint account  subject to this complaint state that 
all information regarding  the Account will only be sent to the first named account holders 
registered address . But, and as is sometimes the case, terms and conditions can 
sometimes contradict a legal, regulatory or other requirement on the part of a business.
So although  I appreciate the point Mrs V makes  here I remain  of the view that LBS was 
required, on regulatory grounds, to send the annual statements that it did in 2017. And even  
if it wasnt a requirement for LBS to send these  I cant see that the information these 
statements contained could be said to be incorrect, misleading or inappropriate.
In closing if Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H require all future correspondence/statements not 
to be sent to them, or not to all of them, then I suggest they take this up with LBS to see if 
such a request can be accommodated. However,  Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H should 
appreciate that this, for various reasons, might not be possible.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint in part and find that that 
Leeds Building Society must pay Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H £100, with 
Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H deciding how this £100 should  be shared amongst them.
I appreciate Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H will be disappointed by my conclusions. My final 
decision, however,  represents the last stage of this services dispute resolution procedure.  
Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H dont have to accept  my decision  and if they dont do so, 
they will be free to pursue legal action against Leeds  Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mrs V, Mr V1, Mr V2 and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1734270