K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S applied for a credit card with Egg in 2000. At the same time,  PPI was added  to the 
credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs S disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs S case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Before adding the policy, Egg had to make it clear  to Mrs S that it was optional.  She says it 
didnt do so. Im satisfied Mrs S applied  for the credit card online,  so Ive looked  at the 
screens I believe shed  have seen and completed  during the application process. These 
included a section  on PPI. The section included a box to click on if she wanted PPI, and an 
equally prominent one to click on if she didnt. Eggs internal records  of the application 
indicate she chose  to have PPI. So I think Egg made it clear that it was selling PPI, that it 
was optional and that Mrs S agreed  to have  it, knowing  she had a choice. But, given that 
was in 2000, its understandable that she might not remember  this now.
The parties agree that Egg didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs S. This means Egg didnt  have 
to look into whether it was right for her. But it should  have  provided enough information 
about the PPI for Mrs S to make up her own mind  as to whether  it was right for her.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think Egg made  all the information  Mrs S needed clear to her. 
But I must also go on to consider what difference that made to Mrs S. I dont think better  
information would have stopped her from buying  the PPI because: 
Based  on what I know of Mrs S circumstances  at the time, she was eligible for the 
PPI. And while the PPI had certain  exclusions to, or limits on, the cover I cant see 
that she was affected by them.  
Mrs S says shed  have received enhanced  sick pay for a time from her public sector  
employer and so didnt  need  PPI. But the PPI benefits  which  also covered her for 
unemployment  would  have paid out on top of that and for up to 12 months per 
claim. Overall, I think Mrs S would  have valued the extra  security  the PPI provided.
Theres nothing to suggest shed have considered the monthly  premium  to be 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible enough that Mrs S could have cancelled  it at 
any time, and at no extra cost, if she no longer wanted it.
Ref: DRN19061092Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mrs S has lost out because of how Egg sold 
her the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1906109