K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy Allianz Insurance Plc didnt  notify  him that they settled a motor  insurance 
claim against him. 
background
Mr J is a driving instructor. In October  2016, Mr J was in his car when his student was 
involved in an accident with another car. Mr J says his student was driving when the other  
driver proceeded  to change lanes, causing the two cars to collide. Mr Js broker made  
Allianz aware of the claim via an accident  management company.  
In July 2018, Mr J contacted Allianz because he found out that they settled his claim as a 
fault claim when he went  to take out a new motor  insurance policy  with a different insurer.  
Mr J asked Allianz why they hadnt  notified him of this and asked for Allianz  to remove  the 
fault claim recorded against him.
Allianz explained theyd made several attempts  to contact Mr J directly and the accident 
management company  to notify them of the claim and their investigation into it. As theyd 
heard nothing back from Mr J or the accident management company, Allianz  accepted the 
other drivers  claim on a without prejudice basis.
Mr J complained to us and one of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He said Allianz  
had made  reasonable attempts to contact  Mr J and that Allianz settled the claim in line with 
their terms  and conditions. Mr J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider  the 
complaint. Mr J remains of the opinion that there was no contact made by Allianz and that 
they also didnt  contact accident  management company who first contacted Allianz about the 
claim, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Allianz  have  decided liability because of the unsuccessful attempts at contacting 
Mr J, I can see from the information Allianz  have  provided that it appears theyre happy to 
reconsider liability. I can see Mr J is cooperating in this as he tells us that hes attempting  to 
contact the student  who was driving  the car at the time of the accident. So as Allianz are 
happy to look into the liability again, I dont propose  to go over the details of this here.
Whats left for me to consider is Allianzs  actions  in relation to settling the claim against Mr J 
as a fault claim and if Allianz did enough  to contact Mr J about the claim.
Allianz have sent me a copy of their internal system  notes which show  all contact made with 
Mr J, his broker and the accident management company.
I can see from this information that Allianz made  several attempts  on different days  to 
contact Mr J via phone and letter. I can see that the telephone number Allianz used to call 
Mr J is the correct one and the same one Mr J gave to our service. Where Allianz wasnt  
able to successfully  get through to Mr J, they left a voice  message. The notes also show a 
text message was sent to Mr J on the same  day Allianz made the call to him. Allianz say the 
Ref: DRN15819802text message asked  Mr J to call them. Whilst I cant see the details of the text message; I 
can see from the notes  that one was sent.  Therefore,  I think its more likely than not that the 
text message was sent to Mr J.
Allianz have sent us a copy of three letters sent to Mr J from around the time of the claim, 
asking him to contact  them about his claim. Allianz  have also sent us a copy  of a letter  sent 
in July 2018 asking Mr J to provide more information  about the accident. Ive had a look at 
the letters and can see that the address  is correct and is the same one Mr J gave  to our 
service. Ive also listened to a call recording between Allianz and Mr J about his complaint. 
At the start of the call Mr J confirms his address  to the advisor for security purposes. This is 
also repeated at the end of the call by the advisor Mr J speaks to. The address confirmed by 
Mr J to Allianz is the same address on the letters. Based on this, Ive got no reason to 
believe that Allianz didnt send the letters. Or that the letters  were  sent to an incorrect  
address. 
I appreciate Mr Js comment  that he never received  the letters or calls from Allianz. But 
based on the information I have,  Ive got no reason to believe Allianz  didnt attempt to make 
contact with Mr J on multiple occasions.  
The internal  system notes  sent by Allianz  also show each time they contacted the accident 
management company  and Mr Js broker about his claim. Based on this information, Im 
satisfied that Allianz made several attempts  to contact the accident management company 
on different days.
I note Mr Js comment that the accident  management  company could  have contacted him. 
However, I cant hold Allianz responsible for the actions of the accident  management  
company and what they could have done.
Having considered all of this, Im satisfied Allianz didnt do anything  wrong  and that they 
made reasonable attempts to contact Mr J about  his motor claim.  As Ive mentioned, I think  
Allianz are acting reasonably in their decision  to review liability again if Mr J is able to 
provide them  with the information theyve requested.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1581980