K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK plc incorrectly set up a direct  debit and shared  her bank 
account details  with a third party.
background
Mrs C opened a Santander credit card account  in January 2019 and also set up a direct 
debit for £50 to repay the account balance. She says she noticed a direct debit payment out 
of her bank  account  to Santander for just over £16 that didnt appear  on her credit  card 
statement. Mrs C says she spoke to Santander  and eventually was told a mistake had been  
made and the payment was being made  in respect of another  Santander  customer. She 
says that other customer would have been  able to see details of her bank account and sort 
code and this was a serious  data breach. Mrs C says the compensation she has been  given  
doesnt go far enough and would like assurances that her personal information is safe,
Santander accepts  it made a mistake and has apologised as well as paying  Mrs C £250 
compensation. It accepts  its other customer could have seen Mrs Cs personal  information 
and says a letter was sent to that person with Mrs Cs account  information. Santander says 
the compensation paid is fair and reasonable and it acted quickly  to sort matters  out.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us but our investigator thought  Santander had acted fairly by 
paying a fair and reasonable  amount  of compensation as well as sorting matters out quickly.  
The investigator also gave Mrs C details  of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
which is the body  responsible for regulating this type of complaints.
Mrs C doesnt accept  that view and says she had to tell Santander about the problem and 
wasnt aware a letter  had been  sent to the third party with her personal information in it.
I asked Santander  if it would consider increasing its offer of compensation by £100 as my 
initial view was that the offer didnt go far enough.  It has agreed to do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that Santanders  initial  offer of compensation doesnt go far enough but think  its latest 
offer is fair and reasonable.
There is no doubt here that Santander  made what I think was a significant mistake. Ive no 
doubt Mrs C was caused distress and inconvenience in trying  to find out what had 
happened. And I also accept that her account could have been compromised and that Mrs C 
fortunately noticed the mistake within a fairly  short period of time after it had been  made.  I 
accept Mrs C spent some time on the telephone  to Santander and that she would  have been  
concerned to realise that Santander had also written to the other customer  with her account 
details.
But Im satisfied Santander has apologised for what happened and sorted matters out within 
a relatively short period  of time.  I dont think Mrs Cs accounts were compromised as a result  
of what happened  and I can see that Santander  correctly refunded the direct  debit of just 
over £16.
Ref: DRN19926552The main  issue here is the level of compensation that Santander should pay. For the 
reasons Ive set out I thought this was a serious breach of Mrs Cs personal data that could 
have had far more  significant consequences. I asked Santander to consider increasing its 
offer of compensation to £350 which I think is a fair and reasonable amount. And I can see 
that it has agreed to pay a further  £100  as a gesture of goodwill.
I appreciate that Mrs C would like assurances that Santander doesnt make a similar  mistake  
again and that it handles  data more carefully  in the future. But we are not the regulator of 
banks and building societies so I hope  Mrs C understands that I cant  fairly make those sorts 
of orders but of course I understand  her concerns.
I accept that Mrs C feels very strongly  about whats happened and I realise  that she may not 
wish to accept Santanders further gesture of goodwill  offer. So I will leave it to her to decide.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of a further 
£100 as a gesture of goodwill in addition to the compensation it previously paid.
Mrs Cs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1992655