K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains Clydesdale Bank Plc will not refund  some  disputed transactions.
background
In April 2018, Miss M complained to Clydesdale about some transactions on two accounts 
which she said she had not made.   All transactions were carried  out at ATMs and Miss M 
thought her cards had been cloned.  The period  of the disputed  transactions  spanned from 
July 2017 to April 2018.
Miss M said she thought  one particular ATM was suspicious because  every time she used it, 
a shadow withdrawal  would occur straight after. She said something similar had happened 
to her daughter and other  people.  She also confirmed she had not shared her PIN with 
anyone.
Clydesdale looked  into Miss Ms complaint, but it said it was going to hold her liable for the 
transactions. This was because the withdrawals had been made using her card and PIN and 
there did not appear to have been  any point of compromise for her PIN.
So, the complaint was brought to this service where our investigator  looked into matters  for 
her.
Our investigator did not think he could ask Clydesdale to do anymore  so the matter was 
referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  but based on what I have seen, I will not 
be upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Generally speaking, Miss M can be held liable for transactions if Clydesdale  thinks its more 
likely than not that she made or authorised them.  The relevant rules say it must  refund any 
unauthorised transactions. But in order to show authorisation, not only must the transactions  
be authenticated, Miss M needs to have  consented to them.
Based on the evidence  I have seen, I am satisfied that the transactions were  authenticated  
in that Miss Ms card and PIN were used to make them. Clydesdale  is unable to provide a 
log for all of the transactions  so I have based  my decision on what  I think is more likely to 
have happened  based on the circumstances of this case.  I think  its more likely that her card 
was used each  and every  time as the money  was debited from her account.
 As I am satisfied that the payments were  authenticated, I then need  to decide if Miss M 
consented to them.  
For the following  reasons,  I think she did consent:
-on Miss Ms version,  the card was always in her possession and she never shared 
her PIN with anyone.  This clearly limits an opportunity for a fraudster  to make these 
transactions;
Ref: DRN19243192-Miss M also says that her card may have been cloned.   There  are no confirmed 
cases which this service has seen  where a chip has been  successfully  cloned.   In 
any event, that doesnt  overcome the issue of how a fraudster knew  Miss Ms PIN 
and was able to take the card and replace  it after every use;
-the first time Miss M reported the transactions was some  eight months after the first 
disputed transactions.   She has been  asked  as to why she never noticed the money  
leaving her account sooner   and she provides no credible reason.  That said,  I can 
see from limited  notes  provided by Clydesdale that there  was a query in February 
2018 about a transaction.   Clydesdale is unable  to provide  me with any further  details 
and Miss M does not suggest she raised  these transactions in February. On balance,  
I think the first time she raised  the disputed ATM transactions was in April 2018;
-as the investigator  has already explained,  the record of transactions do not sit with 
Miss Ms account of how they might have  occurred.
In the circumstances, I havent seen anything to suggest Clydesdale has been unfair or 
unreasonable in how it dealt with Miss Ms complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1924319