K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about BlackStar  Wealth Management Ltd. He is unhappy about 
pension advice it gave  to him in 2011.  He was advised to transfer existing personal  pensions 
into a self investment  personal pension (SIPP) so that he could use his pension to pay a 
deposit on an overseas property.
background
Mr C took advice from BlackStar in 2011.  Its not absolutely clear how he was introduced to 
them, but it seems likely that he was referred to BlackStar by an unregulated firm which  had 
already had some dealings with him. It appears  that Mr C had been introduced to the idea of 
investing in an overseas  property, through Harlequin, before he met with BlackStars adviser.
A fact-find  recorded  that Mr C was in his early forties, married  with a child and in good  
health. He was in employment  earning around £37,500 per year. Savings of £10,000 were 
recorded but no other investments. He held a number of personal pensions  and wanted 
these reviewed with a view to him purchasing  the overseas property.
A risk questionnaire was completed  which  suggested that he was prepared to take a high 
level of risk.
A suitability  letter recorded that Mr C only wanted advice on a suitable SIPP provider, so that 
he could invest with Harlequin. Transfers were arranged with around £60,000 moving into 
the SIPP. From this just under £40,000  was used to pay the deposit to Harlequin. Most  of 
the balance was placed in an investment  fund.
Mr C signed a letter in June 2011,  one that appears to have  been  pre-prepared  for him, 
which said that he had read the suitability report and that:
I confirm  I have made the decision to invest myself and have not received any advice on the 
suitability of the purchase of this overseas commercial property from yourselves. On this 
occasion, I have  only received advice as to an appropriate SIPP  for the purchase of the 
overseas commercial property.
The Harlequin property  failed and in 2017 Mr C made a complaint to BlackStar. It didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said that Mr C had already decided to invest in Harlequin and that it 
had no connection  with the introducer.  It also said that it had given limited advice.
The complaint was referred  to this service where  it was considered  by an adjudicator. She 
said that the complaint should  be upheld. She noted that there was disagreement about how 
Mr C was referred to BlackStar but ultimately, BlackStar had a duty to provide suitable  
advice. Although BlackStar had said that it was providing limited advice, it knew  of the 
intention to invest in Harlequin and she pointed  to an alert from the regulator. This alert 
confirmed that SIPP  advice could not be given without considering the underlying 
investment.
The adjudicator noted that, despite  the fact that Mr C was recorded as being prepared  to 
take high risk with his investment, he had little investment experience and appeared to be a 
retail client.  The pensions  he was transferring  had mostly been invested in balanced funds  
and he had savings  but no other investments. 
Ref: DRN13892252The adjudicator felt that the transfer  was unsuitable. The pensions  transferred represent the 
bulk of Mr Cs retirement provision and, after the transfer over fifty per cent of the funds was 
to be invested  in the overseas property  with the risks that presented.  It was an unregulated 
investment with exchange and liquidity risks. She concluded that BlackStar ought to have 
advised against the transfer and, if it had done so, Mr C would probably not have gone 
ahead. 
BlackStar didnt agree.  It made a number of points in response,  in summary:
Mr C had received earlier advice from another adviser firm. The correspondence  with 
that firm demonstrates that he had greater awareness than he says.
There is reference to Harlequin with that earlier adviser firm. This confirms that 
BlackStar didnt introduce him to Harlequin.
The overall assessment of suitability had taken into account that an overseas 
investment was to be made, so the FSA alert had been complied with. Advice had 
not been given on the specific  property investment.
Mr C was a high risk investor. He was recorded with an attitude of nine on a scale up 
to ten. He had capacity for loss.
Even if he had been advised against the transfer, he would have gone ahead 
anyway.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive summarised whats been  said, but I 
have read and considered everything.
I agree  with the adjudicator and with her reasoning. I uphold this complaint.
As Ive said,  its not clear  exactly  how Mr C came  to be referred to BlackStar. It seems likely 
that he had been introduced to the idea of investing  with Harlequin before he met with them. 
However, that doesnt make any material difference to BlackStars obligations.
BlackStar could not advise on the suitability of a SIPP without considering  the underlying 
investments. Despite what it has said in the response to the adjudicators view, this seems  to 
be what it has set out to do. The letter referred  to above which was completed by Mr C, and 
the suitability letter suggest that limited advice was being provided. The suitability letter  
says:
At this point, I can confirm that you have  only requested  my advice as to a suitable Self 
Invested Personal Pension Plan which would facilitate this purchase.  You have not 
requested, nor have  I provided you with any advice or guidance as to the purchase of this 
property via your pension plan and whether or not this property purchase is indeed  a suitable 
investment.
The 2004  alert from the Financial Services  Authority  (now Financial Conduct  Authority)  says:
The cases  we have seen tend to operate under  a similar advice model. An introducer will 
pass customer details to an unregulated firm, which markets an unregulated investment
Ref: DRN13892253(e.g. an overseas  property development). When the customer  expresses an interest in the 
unregulated investment, the customer is introduced to a regulated  financial adviser to 
provide advice on a SIPP  capable of holding the unregulated  investment.  The financial
adviser does not give advice  on the unregulated investment, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable  of holding the unregulated investment. Sometimes the regulated
financial adviser also assists the customer to unlock  monies held in other investments (e.g.
other pension arrangements) so that the customer is able to invest in the unregulated
investment
We have seen cases where, as a result of these advisory strategies involving unauthorised
firms, customers  have transferred out of more traditional pension schemes and invested  
their retirement savings wholly in unregulated assets  via SIPPs,  taking  on very high and
often entirely unsuitable  levels of risk despite  receiving advice on the pension  transfer from
regulated firms
Financial advisers using this advice  model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the  SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
The position  could not be much clearer. BlackStar  could not properly give limited advice to 
Mr C and disregard the suitability of the Harlequin  investment. It had a duty to consider the 
suitability of that investment for him, and Im not satisfied that it did.
If BlackStar  had considered the suitability of the Harlequin investment, it ought to have 
concluded that it was not suitable for Mr C. Its not clear to me that Mr C should have been 
assessed as a high risk investor. He had little investment experience and no great capacity 
for loss. These pensions  represented the bulk of his pension provision and investing most of 
the funds in a single asset was a very risky course  to take. This is particularly so when the 
investment itself is unregulated and carried additional risks such as exchange risks and 
liquidity issues.
BlackStar says that even  if it had advised against the Harlequin investment, Mr C would 
have gone ahead anyway. He would  have done so as an insistent client, or on an execution 
only basis. Whilst that is possible, I dont think it was the most likely outcome. If it had 
advised against the investment, I think its most likely that Mr C would  have followed that 
advice. I think that most consumers do follow professional advice that they have paid for. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that Mr C would  disregard the advice he was given.
So for these reasons, and for those given by the adjudicator which I have set out above, I 
uphold this complaint.  
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr C in the position he would now be in if he had received suitable  advice. I 
think that he would have: a.) kept his existing  pensions; b.) wouldnt have invested  in 
Harlequin; and c.) wouldnt have opened  the SIPP (and now be subject to ongoing SIPP  
fees). In setting out how to calculate  fair compensation my objective is to address these 
three issues. That is what Im trying to achieve.
There are a number of possibilities and unknown factors in making  an award. Harlequin may 
allow the business to take over the investment  from the Mr C. The involvement of third 
parties - the SIPP provider and Harlequin  mean  much of this is beyond this service or the 
businesss control.
Ref: DRN13892254All the variables are unknown and each may have an impact on the extent of any award this 
service may make. The facts suggest its unlikely that the property will be completed and 
unlikely that the contract  and any future payments would be enforceable. While its 
complicated to put the Mr C back in the position  he would have been in if suitable advice had 
been given, I think its fair that he is compensated now.  I dont  think  we should  wait and 
determine each  any every possibility before making  an award. What is set out below is a fair 
way of achieving  this.
BlackStar must calculate  fair compensation by comparing the value of Mr Cs pensions,  if he 
had not transferred, with the current value  of his SIPP.  In summary:
1. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Cs previous pension  plans  on the date of 
calculation if they had not been transferred to the SIPP.
2. Obtain the actual  transfer value of the SIPP on the date of calculation including any 
outstanding charges.
3. Pay a commercial  value to buy Mr Cs share in the Harlequin Property investment.
4. Pay an amount into Mr Cs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the value 
calculated in (1). This payment should  take account  of any available tax relief and the effect 
of charges. It should also take account of interest  as set out below.
In addition, BlackStar must:
5. Pay five years worth  of future fees owed by Mr C to the SIPP.
6. Pay £300 for the trouble and upset caused by the loss on his pension fund.
I have explained  how BlackStar should carry this out in further  detail below.
1. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Cs previous pension  plans  on the date of 
calculation if it they not been transferred to the SIPP.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that could  have been  achieved  if suitable funds had been chosen. BlackStar should 
assume that any contributions or withdrawals that have been made would still have been 
made, and on the same  dates.
2. Obtain the actual  transfer value of Mr Cs SIPP on the date of calculation, including any 
outstanding charges. This should  be confirmed by the SIPP provider. 
The difference between 1 and 2 is the loss to the pension.
3. Pay a commercial  value to buy Mr Cs Harlequin  Property investment.
The SIPP only exists because of the investment in Harlequin. In order  for the SIPP to be 
closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented,  the Harlequin investment needs  to be 
removed from the SIPP.  We understand this can be done. The valuation  of the Harlequin 
investment may prove difficult,  as there  is no market  for it. To calculate the compensation, 
Ref: DRN13892255BlackStar must agree  an amount with the SIPP provider as a commercial value, and then 
pay the sum agreed  plus any costs and take ownership of the investment.
If BlackStar  is unable to buy the investment,  it should give it a nil value for the purposes of 
calculating compensation. It may ask the Mr C to provide an undertaking to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment the SIPP  may receive from the Harlequin  investment. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect  of any tax and charges on the amount he may receive  
from the investment  and any eventual sums  they would be able to access  from the SIPP. 
The business will need  to meet any costs  in drawing up the undertaking.
The SIPP has paid a deposit under a contract  with Harlequin. That is the loss I am trying to 
redress. Mr C agreed  to pay the remainder of the purchase price under  that contract. Those 
sums have  not yet been paid, so no further loss has been suffered.
However, if the property  is completed, Harlequin could require those payments to be made.
I think its unlikely that the property will be completed, so I think its unlikely there will be 
further loss. But there  might be.
4. Pay an amount into Mr Cs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the value 
calculated in (1). This payment should  take account  of any available tax relief and the effect 
of charges. It should also take account of interest  as set out below. If its not possible to pay 
the compensation into the SIPP, BlackStar should  pay it as a cash  sum to Mr C. But the 
compensation should be able to be paid into a pension in the time until Mr C retires  and he 
should be able to contribute to pension arrangements and obtain tax relief.  
If it is not possible to pay the compensation into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid. The notional  allowance should be calculated using Mr 
Cs marginal rate of tax in retirement.  I consider  he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in 
retirement, the notional  allowance  would  equate  to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  
to the current basic  rate of tax. 
However, if Mr C would have been  able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance 
should be applied  to 75% of the total amount. Simple  interest  should  be added  at the rate of 
8% a year from the date of calculation until the date of payment. Income tax may be payable 
on this interest.
5. Pay five years worth  of future fees owed by Mr C to the SIPP.
Had the business given suitable  advice I dont think there would be a SIPP. Its not fair that
Mr C continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed. BlackStar should be able to 
take over the investment to allow  the SIPP to be closed. This is the fairest  way of putting Mr 
C back in the position  he would have  been  in. But I dont know how long that will take.  Third  
parties are involved and we dont  have the power  to tell them what  to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that it pays an upfront  lump  sum equivalent to five 
years worth  of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years  fees).  This should  provide a 
reasonable period for the parties  to arrange  for the SIPP to be closed. There are a number 
of ways it may want to seek  to achieve that. It will also provide Mr C with some confidence 
that he will not be subject  to further  fees.
In my view, awarding a lump sum for an amount equivalent to five years fees strikes a fair 
balance. Its possible that the Harlequin investment could be removed from the SIPP in less 
Ref: DRN13892256than five years. But given  the time it has taken to date I think it is possible that it could take a 
number of years more to resolve all of the issues. So using a figure  of five years worth  of 
fees is an appropriate and fair award to resolve the issue now.
6. Pay Mr C £300 for trouble and upset caused.
Mr C has been caused some distress by the loss of his pension benefits and the impact on 
his pension planning. I think that a payment  of £300 is appropriate to compensate for that 
upset.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd must calculate and pay redress 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019. 
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1389225