K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold  a Gold packaged bank account (PBA) by Lloyds Bank 
PLC (Lloyds). The date of the sale is not certain, but Mr G believes it to have been in July 
2001. He says he didnt agree to the account, and that he didnt need the benefits. It was 
downgraded to a fee-free  account in October 2007,  and later closed  altogether.
background
As noted above,  some of the key dates in this case are in dispute.  Mr G had two current  
accounts with Lloyds over the years  one for business use, and one for personal.  The 
existence of the separate business account  has no bearing on my findings in this case, and 
has never been disputed by the parties.  It was his personal account, ending in -273,  that was 
a Gold PBA.  According  to Lloyds records, this was opened in October 1997, but it is unclear 
whether it was opened as a free account, or as a PBA. In July of this year Mr G provided a 
letter which confirms he was refunded some overdraft fees on that account, charged  from 
July 2001. But that tells me nothing about when the PBA was opened   only when Lloyds 
recognised it had made a mistake in its charging  of overdraft fees.  
In terms of the benefits that came with the account, in actual fact the exact date of opening 
makes no real difference,  as the key benefits  were  pretty consistent from 1996  until 2004.  
The same applies to the cost  which was £8 per month. The main benefits were  travel 
insurance for the account holder and his/her partner, and a cheaper interest rate on 
overdrafts. However, as Mr G is so insistent that the PBA started in July 2001,  I have  
considered things on that basis.
Having looked  at the available  evidence, the adjudicator  thought that Lloyds hadnt done 
anything wrong, and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G doesnt accept that and has asked an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
considering packaged bank accounts  on our website, which everyone can read.  And Ive 
kept that approach in mind when  reviewing this case. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint, and Ill explain why.
Could Mr G have used  the benefits?
Mr G feels that Lloyds  recommended  the PBA to him  seemingly  largely for the travel 
insurance. Lloyds  says it didnt, and merely gave Mr G information to decide for himself 
whether the PBA was right for him. Again, this issue has no bearing  on my decision, as it 
would appear  that Mr G would have been  able to use both the key benefits.  So it doesnt 
matter whether Lloyds  recommended the account or not. He appears to have regularly used 
a large overdraft over the years, so the preferential rate on that is likely to have saved him 
money. Mr G has said he was never  aware  of that benefit, but it was a standard one on this 
account, generally automatically  applied. And he has confirmed that he did travel abroad.  I 
can see he queried the cover a few times  in 2006,  and paid extra to include a child/children 
on the policy.
Ref: DRN10116502However, this isnt the crux of his complaint. Its clear  that his main concerns are about  him 
not agreeing to the PBA and also being  pressured to keep it when he realised  that he was 
being charged. So Ill go on to discuss those key issues at some  length.
Did Mr G agree to pay for this PBA, and did Lloyds then pressure him into keeping it?
Mr G does not accept that this account  was opened  in 1997 and may have originally been a 
fee free account. But he does accept that he had held fee free account(s) in the past.  He 
says that he approached his business  manager  (the business account  having been open  
earlier) and asked  about setting up a personal  account. He says he only wanted  a basic 
account, but that the business  manager said he, should open  gold account  because he 
was aware that I travelled abroad a lot. Mr G says he didnt agree, and told the business  
manager that hed think about  it, but then noticed  some months later that he was being  
charged a fee for the account.
At that point he says that he called and requested  that it be downgraded to a free account, 
but was pressured by this business  manager  to keep the PBA and so he ...just gave up. 
During our investigation, Mr G has also told us that because he held overdraft(s) and loan(s)  
with Lloyds, he felt he did not want to upset the apple cart.
Ive thought very carefully about this point, because I can see that Mr G had some financial 
troubles after this PBA was opened  and so I can imagine that he may well have been 
concerned about  somehow damaging his relationship with Lloyds. Lloyds no longer has any 
of the paperwork  from the time the account was opened, which isnt surprising given how 
long ago it happened. In situations such as this, its my job to weigh everything up and 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened. And on balance, I dont think its likely  
that Lloyds did anything wrong  in this regard. Ill explain why.
The only evidence I have  on this issue  is Mr Gs testimony, which I am sure has been 
honestly given.  Firstly,  I need to keep in mind that this happened at least eighteen years 
ago, after which amount of time it can be difficult to rely solely  on memories. Secondly, I 
need to consider the detail of what Mr G has told us, which doesnt really give any detail 
about what the Lloyds staff member did. I acknowledge  that he has said both at the start of 
his complaint, and more  recently, that he was pressured. But he hasnt described how he 
was pressured,  such as what the business manager  said to him. So I dont have any 
detailed, reliable evidence  about whether Lloyds did anything wrong. It may have been that 
his circumstances  led Mr G to feel concerned, as he understandably  says,  about upsetting 
the apple cart, rather than unfair  practices of a Lloyds  staff member. In essence, even if 
Mr G genuinely believed  he had to have the account, it doesnt  automatically follow  that was 
because of Lloyds  actions.
While what Mr G has said is entirely possible,  I dont  have enough evidence to lead me to 
reasonably conclude that it is most  likely what happened. I realise that Mr G will be 
disappointed about this, and perhaps feel that my findings are subjective. But I have to judge 
the reliability of all evidence provided  to determine  whether  a businesss actions were unfair 
or unreasonable. And in this instance,  I am not persuaded  that was most  likely the case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds doesnt  need to do 
anything.
Ref: DRN10116503Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1011650