K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Markel International Insurance Company Limited unfairly  and 
unreasonably dealt with her claim under  a legal expenses insurance  policy. She wants 
matters put right.
background
Ms F had an after-the-event legal  expenses insurance policy with Markel,  taken out to bring  
a claim for clinical negligence. One defendant offered £30,000 to settle the claim, and 
warned that if it wasnt accepted, it would enter insolvency  and thered  be no more money 
available. The solicitor  and barrister advising Ms F told her to accept and said if she didnt, 
they wouldnt act any further on her behalf.
Ms F disagreed and wanted  to continue the claim. Markel told her solicitors that it wouldnt 
look to fund a trial where there was a likelihood that the judgment  would be unenforceable.  
Ms F accepted an increased offer, paid the disbursements, but felt shed been deprived and 
hadnt received  any benefit from the policy. Markel didnt charge  the premium  due as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Ms F complained and said Markel  had decided to stop funding  the claim;  she viewed that as 
a cancellation  of the policy and said that it should to pay for her non-lawyer expenses 
(known as disbursements). Markel pointed out that under  the terms and conditions of the 
policy, Ms F wasnt  entitled to payment of her disbursements  as shed received damages 
from the proceedings. It said that the policy hadnt  been cancelled, and the claim had been 
successful.
Ms F complained to us. The investigators  view was that under the terms and conditions of 
the policy, Ms F had a successful outcome as she received damages and Market  didnt  have 
to pay the disbursements. He said that the policy wasnt cancelled  but the claim was 
prejudiced by the poor financial position of one of the defendants  this wasnt the fault of 
Markel. The investigator  also said that Markels waiver of its right to the premium  was fair 
and reasonable and it hadnt been  at fault.
Ms F disagreed. She was adamant  that effectively her policy  had been cancelled  as she 
refused to accept the initial offer against  her solicitors advice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When I refer to Markel, Im also referring  
to its agents.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Markle has a responsibility  to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.
Ms F says that effectively her policy was cancelled  by Markel. But from considering  the 
evidence before me, that isnt what happened. Ms Fs refusal to accept the initial offer wasnt 
enough to cancel the policy  the policy says that it is cancelled when a notice of 
cancellation is sent by Markel. This didnt happen. Theres no obligation on Markel  to cancel 
even if its entitled  to do so. And I note that the lawyers involved said that theyd stop acting if 
Ref: DRN10493682Ms F didnt accept their advice to settle   that was their decision, not Markels. Markel simply 
warned that if the case continued to trial, it was unlikely that it would agree to fund the costs.
While Ms F may feel that she didnt receive  any benefit from the policy,  that isnt correct.  
Ms F had the benefit of the protection of the policy if she lost her case, which  enabled her to 
proceed. Ms F ended up receiving damages and the case was settled.  Markel  didnt promise 
to pay the disbursements in all circumstances. Under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
the circumstances where  it would  make such payments were limited;  theres no duty to pay 
when Ms F settled the claim and received damages. The policy makes it clear that if Ms F 
received damages, Markel was entitled  to reimbursement; it also says no payment would be 
made if the premium wasnt  paid.
Markel didnt advise Ms F about the policy, and wasnt responsible for the financial position 
of the defendant. The legal advice received (again  for which  Markel  wasnt responsible)  was 
that due to the poor financial position  of the defendant, who was uninsured,  there was little 
chance of obtaining more  money through a successful trial. It wasnt unfair or unreasonable  
for Markel  to say it wouldnt fund the trial in those  circumstances  no reasonable person 
would want to pay money in that situation,  particularly when enforcement action wasnt 
covered by the policy. The claim  itself still had reasonable prospects  of success, but the 
ability to receive more damages had been  prejudiced. Markels position wasnt an effective 
cancellation but its confirmation of its likely  position  enabled Ms F to understand her options 
and to negotiate a better  offer. 
I dont think Markel acted unfairly or unreasonably  in telling Ms Fs solicitors  that it wouldnt 
look to fund a trial in the circumstances or in requiring Ms F to pay for the disbursements out 
of her damages. I also think that its decision to waive the premium was more  than fair and 
reasonable, and further supports a view that requiring Markel to pay the disbursements 
when it hadnt  claimed the premium but Ms F had received damages  would be 
unreasonable; it would also be in conflict with the terms  and conditions  of the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or reject  my decision before 
6 August 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1049368