K820x#14complaint
Mr J and his mother Mrs L have a joint mortgage  with Nationwide Building Society. Theyre  
unhappy that Nationwide wont lend more  money,  or agree to remove Mrs L from the 
mortgage, or bear the legal costs  of removing her from the title.
background
In 2006 Mr J applied  to Nationwide for a re-mortgage away  from his existing lender, in order  
to raise money. He was unemployed and Mrs L was willing to help. Mr J and Mrs L say that 
they applied for her to be a guarantor, but that Nationwide  said that it would offer better rates  
if she were a party to the mortgage instead,  so that was done.
In November 2017 Mr J wanted to take out further borrowing of £10,000 on the mortgage  
and he contacted Nationwide, but it declined. Mr J and Mrs L made a complaint. In its final 
response to the complaint, Nationwide summarised  their concerns as follows:
My understanding  of your concerns are [sic] that youre unhappy  that Nationwide  advised 
you to instruct a solicitor  to transfer the equity of the property to your sole name, so that you 
could apply for further borrowing of £10,000 with Nationwide.
Youve now discovered  that this isnt the case and youve explained that youve now incurred 
costs with your solicitor, which youre  unable to pay.
Furthermore, Nationwide cant  agree to the Change  of Borrower application at this time, as 
the application falls outside of our affordability and due to high credit card utilisation.
When Nationwide said this isnt the case, what it meant, as I understand it, was that it 
wasnt the case that Mr J could borrow £10,000  if Mrs L were  taken off the mortgage. And 
the reason for that was non-affordability  and high credit card borrowing.
Nationwide also said:
I think  its fair to say that had we explained things to you more clearly, you wouldnt have 
instructed solicitors to commence the legal work for a transfer of equity process and to 
commence proceedings on removing your mum from the title deeds of the property.
In recognition of this Nationwide paid £250  compensation and refunded the wasted solicitors  
fees.
Mr J and Mrs L brought their complaint to our service. Mr J said he wanted to re-mortgage 
and borrow more money, but Nationwide said that to do that, hed need  to take Mrs L off the 
mortgage. This would  require  a solicitor. So he got a solicitor and started the process.  
He told us that he couldnt get the re-mortgage  with Mrs L still a party, because she had 
quite a lot of debt (some  of which was in his name but Mrs L and her husband were paying 
it) and Nationwide wouldnt give him the re-mortgage because of that.
So Mr J and Mrs L now wish Mrs L to be removed from the mortgage. They complain that 
this will incur legal costs  which wouldnt have  been  needed if Mrs L had only been a 
guarantor. They want Nationwide to pay these costs.
Ref: DRN18013392As our investigator didnt  think Nationwide had done  anything wrong, Mr J and Mrs L have 
asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision on the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J and Mrs Ls complaint to us was made  by Mr J on the phone,  and Ive listened to a 
recording of this. From what he said Mr J is under  the impression  that the reason he cant  
get the loan is because  Mrs L is still on the mortgage and has a high level of debt. Mr J 
doesnt mention  this in his call setting up the complaint, but it appears from Nationwides  
note of a call from Mr J on 26 January 2018  that hed been  advised that he needed to take 
Mrs L off the mortgage in order to borrow the £10,000 over the remainder of the mortgage 
term, because of her age.
So Mr J wants  to take Mrs L off the mortgage. And he believes its just the solicitors  fees 
which are preventing this, which is why he wants  Nationwide to pay them. But Nationwides 
final response letter also says:
Furthermore, Nationwide cant agree to the change of borrower application at this time, as 
the application falls outside of our affordability and due to high credit card utilisation.
So even if it were to pay the solicitors  fees to have  Mrs L taken off the title deeds, 
Nationwide still wouldnt take her off the mortgage.
Following the Mortgage  Market Review  and the implementation of the new standards set by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  in April 2014,  the mortgage application  process has required 
more stringent checks to comply with the standards  imposed on lenders. 
A lender doesnt need to carry out an affordability  assessment if a borrower wants  to vary an 
existing mortgage,  if there  is no additional borrowing and there is no change  to the terms of 
the mortgage contract likely to be material  to affordability. Removing a borrower (Mrs L) 
counts as a variation of the mortgage, but Mr J does wish to take out additional borrowing 
and the removal  of Mrs L would be a change  likely  to be material  to affordability.
There are transitional arrangements, which are intended to make sure that existing mortgage 
customers such as Mr J and Mrs L, whose mortgages were taken out before the new rules  
were introduced, dont  get treated unfairly  as an unintended  consequence of this stricter 
regulation. But these arrangements still require that there be no additional borrowing.
This means  that Nationwide is obliged to apply  its lending criteria to ensure that the new 
lending is affordable and in line with the current regulations. If one party  to the mortgage is to 
be removed, requiring a mortgage application to be made  with a full affordability assessment 
isnt unfair.
Nationwide goes on to say:
Nevertheless, you could  reapply at a later date,  should the circumstances surrounding  the 
outstanding credit card balance in your name, which your mother currently pays,  change. I 
do have to also notify you that any future application  would also be subject to a satisfactory 
credit score at that time and the application  would need to be affordable based on your 
Ref: DRN18013393income and outgoings, if you later wished to remove your mum from the mortgage and 
borrow further funds.
In other  words, Mr J isnt going  to get his £10,000 loan simply by taking Mrs L off the 
mortgage. Nationwide wont lend him more  money  because it doesnt think  he can afford  to 
repay it. I dont consider  thats unfair or unreasonable.
That leaves the question how it was that Mrs L became a party  to the mortgage  instead of 
just a guarantor. In his response  to the investigators  findings, Mr J was at pains to explain 
that he and Mrs L both clearly remembered Nationwide advising the joint mortgage. The 
reason for that was to obtain better rates. 
But that doesnt seem to me to be wrong advice or unfair. Even  if Nationwide  did give that 
advice, I dont think it follows that it was wrong  or that I should  order  Nationwide to pay the 
legal costs of taking Mrs L off the title now. And of course it wouldnt make  any difference 
because Nationwide  wont lend Mr J the additional  money anyway. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1801339