K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy that an insurance claim for a third party was accidently logged against  his
policy - and he says he suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of incorrectly
receiving an insurance claim form from Assurant General Insurance  Limited (Assurant).
background
Mr C has mobile  phone insurance through his bank  account which is supplied by Assurant.
On 23 February 2019 Mr C received a claim form for a lost/stolen  phone.  Mr C had not 
registered a claim with Assurant, so he became  worried  that his personal  details had been  
compromised.
Assurant says an insurance claim for another customer was incorrectly  logged on Mr Cs
policy, which is why this form was sent to him. But Assurant says the other customer  did not
receive any information with Mr Cs details on it, so none of his personal  information  had
been compromised.
Assurant offered to pay Mr C £50 in compensation for the error and the distress  this caused him. 
Our investigator looked at the case and thought  that £200 would be fair in the circumstances. 
Assurant disagreed, saying that £200  was not proportionate as they hadnt disclosed any of 
Mr Cs details to any third party - and they rectified  the mistake as soon as possible.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 November 2019,  which  is attached and forms part
of this decision, setting out why I thought an award for £100 was proportionate 
compensation in these  circumstances. Assurant did not respond with any further evidence  
for me to consider.  Mr C responded to dispute the amount awarded and so Ive considered  
this additional  information below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think the award  of £100 
as set out in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable in this case.  
I set out my reasons for why I think this is fair award  in my provisional  decision. Mr C 
responded with additional  comments  for me to consider.  In summary, Mr C says:
even though he was told that the issue had been  resolved on 25 February  2019,  he 
received text messages later that day and on 27 February 2019 about a claim on his 
account; 
an award  for £100 is too low considering the hassle, distress  and time it took him to 
check his accounts  and bank statements, complete  credit checks  and make calls to 
rectify the situation;   
had he not called Assurant to identify the issue it is likely that his personal data wouldve 
been leaked to the other  customer.   
Ref: DRN13932922Ive considered the points made  by Mr C about  receiving texts  after he had been reassured 
that none of his personal data had been compromised. Ive also seen screen shots  of these 
texts and from what Ive seen I think its clear these  were automated texts sent from a central 
system, so I dont think this wouldve caused  any serious alarm. And the information in these 
texts doesnt suggest  a claim is being  taken forward, instead they suggest that the matter is 
now resolved. Ive also considered what Mr C said about it being likely his personal data 
wouldve been leaked had he not flagged the error with Assurant. But it wouldnt be fair for me 
to consider all possible  scenarios  or potential outcomes  in every case. Instead I must consider 
what did happen in the circumstances and make my findings based on what took place. 
As Ive said above,  Ive set out my reasons why I think an award for £100 is proportionate in 
this case considering the distress and inconvenience Mr C suffered. Ive also considered the 
additional points  made by Mr C, however I am not persuaded that more than £100  would be 
fair in this case.   
my final decision
For the reason  outlined  above, and those set out in my provisional decision, I am instructing 
Assurant General Insurance Limited pay Mr C £100  in compensation for their mistake.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13932923COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C is unhappy that an insurance  claim  for a third party was accidently  logged  against his policy - 
and he says he suffered  distress and inconvenience  as a result of incorrectly receiving an insurance 
claim form from Assurant General  Insurance  Limited (Assurant).
background
Mr C has mobile phone  insurance through his bank  account which is supplied by Assurant. On 
23 February 2019 Mr C received a claim  form for a lost/stolen phone  from Assurant. Mr C had not 
registered a claim with Assurant, so he became  worried  that his personal  details had been compromised.
Mr C says he looked through his recent  bank statements and carried out a credit check  because he 
was concerned someone might have had access to his bank details. He then called Assurant  to ask 
why he received this form.
Assurant says an insurance claim  for another customer was incorrectly logged  on Mr Cs policy, which  
is why this form was sent to him. But Assurant says the other customer  did not receive  any 
information with Mr Cs details  on it, so none  of his personal information  had been compromised. 
Assurant corrected this mistake shortly after being  informed  of the error and put both Mr C and the 
other consumers account  right.
Assurant offered to pay Mr C £50 in compensation for the error  and the distress this caused  him. 
Our investigator looked at the case and thought that £200 would  be fair in the circumstances. 
Assurant disagreed, saying that £200 was not proportionate as they hadnt disclosed any of Mr Cs 
details to any third party - and they rectified the mistake as soon as possible. So, the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I think the complaint should be upheld as I dont feel 
£50 is enough. I think an award for £100 feels fairer and more reasonable.
Assurant accepts it did something wrong when  it logged  another customers claim  on Mr Cs policy, 
so I havent looked into that. Ive only considered  whether the £50 offered by Assurant  is enough 
compensation for this mistake.
Just because something  went wrong, this doesnt  mean I would automatically  award compensation   
were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives. I need to consider what  impact Assurants 
mistake had on Mr C and whether this has been bigger  than just a minor inconvenience or upset.
Mr C says he checked his bank statements and completed a credit check  on his account as he was 
worried someone else had gotten access to his account details. As his insurance was provided through  
the bank, I can understand why he wouldve been concerned about this. However,  upon completing these  
checks I think he wouldve been reassured that there had been no fraudulent transactions on his account.
Ref: DRN13932924Mr C called Assurant  to ask why he had received this claim form.  Ive listened to the call and, while I 
can hear that Mr C was worried that his account information  had been compromised, Assurant 
assured him that it doesnt  hold any other information about him or his accounts, asides from the 
account number  and sort code of the account linked to the policy. Ive been told that Mr Cs email 
address and phone number were changed on his account with Assurant, but I havent seen any 
evidence that his information  was then given to any third party. Mr C received a call from Assurant on 
25 February 2019 to assure him that the mistake had been rectified and that his information  was safe. 
So, while I do think Mr C may have initially been worried about his information  being  available  to 
others, I think Assurant reassured him that no information had been  shared, and it rectified the 
situation within two days of the event.
I do think this was an error made  by Assurant which caused  Mr C some distress and inconvenience and 
based on what Ive seen so far and for the reasons  outlined  above, I think £100 would  be a fair award.
my provisional  decision
For the reason  outlined above, I am currently suggesting Assurant General Insurance
Limited pay Mr C £100 in compensation for their mistake.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1393292