K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Miss W are unhappy that Amtrust Europe  Limited has refused to accept a claim 
under their building  warranty  for new homes. References to Amtrust  Europe Limited  in this 
decision include its claims handler.
background
Mr P and Miss W moved into their new-build property in December 2013. It came  with a ten 
year building warranty. In October 2016  Mr P and Miss W made  a claim to Amtrust under 
their guarantee because  they were suffering from noise transfer  and vibrations in their new 
home.
In December 2016 Amtrust said it wouldnt  accept  their claim on the basis that Mr P and 
Miss W hadnt  complied with the conditions in the guarantee for notifying  it of claims.
They brought their complaint to this service. Our adjudicator didnt uphold  their complaint. 
She thought  they were out of time in making their claim to Amtrust.
As Mr P and Miss W didnt agree,  the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The property Mr P and Miss W bought in December 2013 came with a ten year building  
warranty underwritten by Amtrust. The warranty gives them cover for certain defects that 
may arise during that period. There are terms and conditions  to the warranty.  It also provides 
two separate periods of cover. The first is the Defects Insurance Period which ran for two 
years from when Mr P and Miss W bought the property  in December 2013. The second 
period is the Structural Insurance Period which runs for the following eight years (from 
December 2015  to December 2023).
Mr P and Miss W complained to their builder about  the noise and vibration problems within 
the Defects Insurance Period. Under  this section of the policy, they are covered  for the cost 
of remedying any defect  (as defined under the policy)  which  is discovered and notified to 
the Developer  during the Defects Insurance Period and which  is notified to the 
Underwriter within 6 months of the expiry of the Defects  Insurance  Period .
So in order for their claim to be covered during this period,  they also needed  to notify 
Amtrust, at the latest by the 12 June 2016. Unfortunately for Mr P and Miss W, they didnt tell 
Amtrust about the defects until 16 October 2016, some four months after the expiry of the 
end of the six month extension.
I appreciate that Mr P and Miss W didnt report the defects to Amtrust because they were 
engaging with the builder  and werent advised to log their concerns with Amtrust at that time. 
But I dont think this necessarily prevented  them from also reporting the claim to Amtrust. 
Amtrust has relied on the failure to comply with the notification  requirements to decline the 
claim. I dont  think it has acted unfairly  in doing  that. Its not unreasonable for an insurer  to 
rely on the policy terms and conditions to decline a claim. 
Ref: DRN18312662Ive also looked  at whether the claim could  be covered under the Structural  Insurance Period 
because that is still running. But to fall under this section of the warranty  the problems with 
noise and vibrations would  have  to be classed as Major Damage. The definition  of Major 
Damage states  that it is damage that was first discovered during the Structural  Insurance  
Period. Since the damage was first discovered before the start of the Structural Insurance  
Period, I dont think Amtrust treated Mr P and Miss W unfairly  in not considering their claim 
under this section  of the policy.
Mr P and Miss W have also complained that the problems  with noise and vibrations might be 
caused by a breach of building regulations. They want  Amtrust to check the quality of the 
build and to confirm that their property complies with building  regulations. Thats  not 
Amtrusts role in offering a building warranty. It inspects a property  before its completed  in 
order to be satisfied that it can offer a warranty. It doesnt guarantee that a property complies 
with building regulations.
I understand that a further problem  has come to light in the meantime.  Im not able to 
consider that as part of this decision.  Mr P and Miss W need to raise  the issue with Amtrust  
first and if they are not satisfied with the outcome of that, they may wish to make a further 
complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1831266