K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained that he suffered a financial loss because National Savings  and 
Investments (NS&I) did not inform  him of changes to the terms of two Childrens Bonus 
Bonds (the bonds). 
background
Mr K is the beneficiary of the bonds that were  due to mature  when he turned 21 years old in 
September 2018. However, due to changes to the terms and conditions in 2012, the bonds 
matured in 2015 and 2017.  
In 2012, NS&I sent two letters explaining the changes  to Mr E, a relative of Mr K and the 
responsible person for the bonds whilst Mr K was a child. Mr K and Mr E live at the same 
address. However,  as one of the letters was returned undelivered, NS&I  said it assumed 
Mr E had moved away from his address and put a security block on the account  to protect it. 
No further letters were sent on the account until further contact was made  by Mr K. 
When Mr K turned  21 years  old, he contacted  NS&I  to find the value of the bonds had been 
placed in a residual account in 2015 and 2017 earning minimal interest. Mr K has 
complained that, had NS&I told him about  the changes of terms, he would  have moved the 
funds into another  investment product because the residual account had a low interest  rate. 
NS&I did not uphold Mr Ks complaint and it paid the value of the bonds  plus any interest  
accrued in the residual account  to Mr K in 2018. 
Our investigator said NS&I had not done anything wrong because  its common for 
businesses to stop writing  to customers when mail is returned undelivered. Mr K did not 
agree as he believes NS&I shouldve done more to contact him about the change in terms. 
As such,  Mr K asked me to make a decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
To assist in my decision, I have considered whether NS&Is processes have had an unfair 
outcome on Mr K.
NS&I said it sent two letters in October  2012 to Mr E, one for each bond account. It can 
show that one letter was returned  undelivered. It has been unable to provide a copy  of the 
other letter and I cant  see evidence in its file to confirm it was sent. I am unable  to say with 
any certainty that either of the letters  were  successfully  delivered. Mr K has said the family  
didnt receive any correspondence  on his bonds  after March  2010. So in 2012 he remained  
unaware of NS&Is change of terms that his bonds would mature  at the end of the current  
five-year period after he was 16 years old.
NS&I said that it put a security block on the account because it made the assumption that 
Mr E was no longer  at that property. Whilst  it may be normal process for NS&I to stop 
sending letters when  mail is returned undelivered, I have considered that NS&I  hasnt 
provided evidence  to show that Mr E had moved  away from that address, only that the letter 
had been returned undelivered. I understand there are a number of reasons that mail can be 
returned undelivered. 
Ref: DRN16867152Furthermore, NS&I has provided a copy of the letters  it was due to send in 2015 and 2017.  
On review of these letters, I can see that they are addressed to Mr K (because he was now 
over 16) and not Mr E. Whilst it had received undelivered mail for Mr E, it had no evidence  of 
undelivered mail for Mr K or that Mr K was not living at the property. Given that it wasnt 
writing to Mr E, who NS&I assumed was no longer at the property,  I dont think  security block 
was applied fairly to the account  once  it was writing to Mr K. 
I also think NS&I would  most likely have been aware  that Mr K had not received the changes  
to the terms and conditions in 2012 and, therefore, had no reason to contact NS&I until he 
turned 21 in 2018. It also knew that the funds would be placed in a residual account with a 
low interest rate in 2015 and 2017. Because of this, I think there was a greater responsibility 
on NS&I to contact Mr K about the significant changes  to the terms of the bonds.
Overall, I think it was unfair for NS&I not to have tried to contact Mr K about a significant  
change in the terms of his bonds.  Had Mr K received the letters  in 2015 and 2017, he would 
have had two options; cash out the value of the bonds, or reinvest in another product. Whilst 
I appreciate Mr K said he would have  reinvested  the funds, I am unable  to say with any 
certainty what Mr K would have done at the time.  However, knowing that Mr K took action as 
soon as he was 21 and he thought the bonds  had matured, I am satisfied Mr K would have 
done something other than keep the funds in the low interest residual  account.  
Whilst I am unable to say what financial loss, if any, Mr K has suffered, I think NS&I has 
prevented Mr K from making an informed decision about the funds  he was entitled  to. I 
consider the loss of expectation  Mr K experienced when he called  in 2018 would have been 
distressing. I consider  £200 compensation for distress is reasonable in the circumstances.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Mr K and NS&I have accepted my findings.  Neither  party provided any further  comments for 
me to consider in reply  to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, in the absence of any new 
information, I see no reason to change my conclusions. So my view remains  that NS&I 
prevented Mr K from making an informed decision about the funds  he was entitled  to. I 
consider £200  compensation  for distress is reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  Mr Ks complaint.  I require  
National Savings  and Investments to pay Mr K £200 for the distress caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Ref: DRN16867153Jamie Sutherland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1686715