K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that BUPA Insurance Limited  declined her private health insurance claim. 
background
Unfortunately at the end of 2012 Miss S suddenly lost the hearing in her right ear and shes  
deaf in that ear. Shes seen doctors about her condition intermittently over the years.  In 2018 
her two medical consultants recommended that she have a cochlear implant.
In February 2018  Miss S contacted BUPA to ask if her insurance would pay for the cochlear 
implant. At that time she had group  private medical  insurance with BUPA through her 
employer. Miss S says that policy covered pre-existing medical  conditions.
BUPA initially declined the claim  on the basis that the policy excluded deafness caused by a 
congenital abnormality, maturing or ageing. It also said Miss S hearing loss had to be 
caused by a recent illness or injury for it to consider paying for cochlear implants. Miss S 
sent BUPA medical evidence from her consultant  but BUPA said the evidence didnt change  
its mind that Miss S didnt meet those criteria.
Following Miss S complaint to us BUPA sent its final response  letter  in October  2018.  BUPA  
added a further reason for declining  the claim; it said the claim didnt meet the policy  
definition of eligible  treatment. In particular, the policy said treatment had to be consistent  
with generally accepted  standards  of medical practice  and representative of best practices in 
the medical profession in the UK.
BUPA told Miss S that if she sent evidence as to why a cochlear implant wasnt considered 
in 2012 it would reconsider. It noted her membership of the company policy had been 
cancelled in September 2018 and she had a new personal policy. It said the relevant policy  
terms would  depend  on when she had her cochlear implant. It apologised for not responding 
to her complaint in June 2018  sooner and paid £75 for compensation for her inconvenience.
Our investigator thought BUPA declined the claim unfairly. He recommended BUPA pay the 
claim and additional  £150 compensation for Miss S distress and inconvenience  as it should 
have accepted her claim sooner.
BUPA disagreed  and wanted  an ombudsmans decision.  It said the medical  evidence  didnt 
address why the cochlear  implant hadnt  been  requested earlier. Also one of her consultants 
letters said the benefit from the implant  diminishes if theres delay following the hearing loss. 
BUPA said the treatment  didnt meet the policy definition of eligible treatment as a cochlear 
implant six years after hearing loss occurred wasnt in keeping with standards  of medical  
practice in the UK. The standard was to use cochlear implants for recent hearing loss rather  
than delaying, which decreased the effectiveness.
Before I made my decision I asked both parties to provide more  information.
I asked Miss S consultant, Mr I:
to explain why a cochlear  implant wasnt considered and pursued for Miss S sooner 
than 2018. In particular in 2012/13  and 2015  when her medical notes show  she was 
having active treatment,  and
Ref: DRN10068792whether he agreed its the accepted standard of medical practice  in the UK to use 
cochlear implants  for recent hearing loss rather than delaying. If so why did he 
recommend that Miss S would  benefit from a cochlear  implant given there had been 
a six year delay between her hearing  loss and the proposed cochlear implant.
I asked BUPA:
to provide medical evidence to support its statement that the accepted standard  in 
the UK is to use cochlear implants  for recent hearing  loss rather  than delaying  which  
decreases their effectiveness, and
to clarify the date Miss S made  her claim and which of Miss S policies it would pay 
any claim under (if we thought that a fair outcome),  and
to confirm whether  the policy that is active now has the same cover  as her previous  
employers insurance scheme (as Miss S understood).
I referred to the parties responses  in my provisional decision, detailed  below, which  was 
sent to the parties. Wed also recently received further medical evidence from Mr I which  
I asked our investigator to send  to BUPA.
my provisional findings
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant  rules  and industry guidelines  say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I think BUPA has 
unreasonably rejected  Miss S claim.
Im intending  to uphold this complaint.  As Ive referred to new evidence and come  to a 
different outcome than that suggested  by our investigator Ive made a provisional decision.
BUPA declined Miss S claim for specific reasons. Ive only considered  whether its fairly 
relied on those reasons.  BUPAs already had enough time to raise any other  reason it 
wanted to rely on to decline  the claim so I dont  think it can now fairly raise  further  decline  
reasons in response to my provisional decision.
Ive seen the policy terms and conditions for the policy Miss S had with her previous 
employer. BUPA didnt  confirm the date Miss S made the claim but from the information 
I have she first contacted  BUPA about  her claim when that policy  was in force.
Ive also seen the policy terms and conditions for the personal policy Miss S has now. It was 
issued on 2 October 2018 and has since renewed.
BUPA didnt  confirm  whether Miss S personal policy has the same cover  as her previous 
employers insurance  scheme (as Miss S understood). But I note Miss S personal policy 
doesnt have any pre-existing  conditions noted  for exclusion. As Ive said I wouldnt think it 
fair for BUPA to now try to rely on Miss S condition being pre-existing to try to decline the 
claim given  the circumstances of this case.
Both policies  cover  in-patient and out-patient surgical procedures  and both contain the 
exclusion and eligible treatment definition BUPA used to decline the claim. BUPAs list of 
appliances it may cover says the eligibility criteria  for cochlear  implants  is deafness as a 
result of an acute illness or injury.
Ref: DRN10068793can BUPA  fairly rely on the policy exclusion  and/or recent illness to decline the claim?
BUPA referred to the following policy exclusion:
We do not pay for treatment for or arising from deafness caused by a congenital  
abnormality, maturing  or ageing.
From the medical evidence Ive seen theres  been no firm diagnosis of the cause  of Miss S 
hearing loss. A letter from her health centre says her hearing  loss is likely related to cochlea 
pathology. Mr Is 3 July 2018 letter to BUPA says Miss S sustained  significant and sudden 
hearing loss in 2012 and:
The hearing  tests do not show  significant progression between  2015 and 2018 and it 
is therefore most likely  that this was sudden sensorineural loss, not a progressive 
loss. The aetiology of sudden sensory hearing loss is not fully understood but it is not 
thought to be related to genetic factors  and is more likely to be due to infection  or 
trauma or microvascular circulatory events. For this reason, I think there  is no 
evidence that her right-sided hearing loss on which cochlear implantation is now 
recommended was a progressive  condition but ample evidence  that it was a sudden  
onset illnesses.
So Im satisfied that the probable cause  of Miss S hearing loss was caused by illness or 
injury. BUPA  suggested to Miss S in its final response letter that her hearing loss had to be 
due to a recent illness or injury for cochlear implants  to be covered. But the policy  terms 
dont say that and I dont  think  BUPA can fairly decline because her illness wasnt  recent.
Theres no medical evidence that Miss S hearing loss was caused by a congenital 
abnormality, maturing  or ageing.  BUPA cant fairly rely on that policy exclusion to decline the 
claim.
can BUPA  fairly rely on Miss S claim not being for eligible treatment?
Both policies  define eligible treatment as:
Treatment of an Acute Condition together with the products and equipment used as 
part of the Treatment  that:
are consistent with generally accepted  standards of medical  practice and 
representative of best practice  in the medical  profession in the UK
are clinically appropriate  in terms of type, frequency,  extent,  duration  and the facility  
or location where the services  are provided
are demonstrated through scientific evidence to be effective in improving health 
outcomes, and
are not provided  or used primarily for the expediency of you or your Consultant  or 
other healthcare  professional.
BUPA hasnt  declined  the claim because Miss S condition isnt an acute condition  as 
defined by the policy. Its focused  on the recommendation  for Miss S cochlear implant  not 
being consistent with generally accepted  standards  of medical  practice and representative 
of best practice  in the medical  profession in the UK.
Ref: DRN10068794BUPAs now told me it doesnt have  its own evidence  to support its statement that 
effectiveness of cochlear implants would  diminish  if done a long time after the deafness 
occurred. It said the comment came from Mr I and he also suggested in his April 2018 letter 
that it wouldnt be best practice  to offer cochlear implants to Miss S as she has hearing in 
her other ear.
Mr Is letter  that BUPA refers to said Miss S has been deaf in this ear now for a few years 
and we are conversant with data which shows early  implantation to convey significant 
advantage and sudden hearing  loss. Certainly, undue delay should be avoided.
In another letter Mr I does  say Miss S would fall outside the generally  accepted  normal 
practice for a cochlear  implant as she would be an unusual case  as she has hearing on one 
ear. I think in this circumstance  a second  opinion from a colleague would be wise and I have 
asked my colleague (who  Ill refer to Professor  D) to review her as well.
BUPA thought  those comments meant  the policy definition of eligible treatment wasnt  met. 
But Professor Ds opinion  and Mr I's follow up opinion is that in Miss S particular 
circumstances the treatment would be clinically effective.
Professor Ds opinion  was:
As you know the evidence in the literature is emergent and in my own practice I have 
several adults and a couple of children who are deriving significant benefit  from their 
cochlear implant  for either single sided or significantly  asymmetric hearing loss. The 
other consideration is that (Miss S) is a young  woman and there may well be 
pharmacological or other  therapeutic technologies available in the not too distant 
future which would be most useful  in those ears that have not had prolonged periods 
of auditory deprivation. On balance therefore I have no hesitation  in recommending  
that (Miss S) has cochlear implant  for the right ear.
Mr Is follow  up letter says Miss S has:
a severe bordering profound hearing  loss at all moderate to high frequencies  and 
when tested with hearing aids in, her speech understanding  is poor. In fact, she is 
significantly less able to understand  speech with the hearing aids present than uses  
of cochlear implantI am therefore, in agreement with Professor  D that cochlear 
implantation would be a useful route forward to improve  Miss S hearing  particularly 
of speech.
BUPA was concerned Miss S hadnt been offered cochlear implants before 2018. That's now 
been addressed  specifically  by Mr Is recent report dated 19 September 2019. In brief he 
says:
when Miss S was seen in NHS in 2012/2013 cochlear implantation  for unilateral  
deafness wasnt  an option
after initial sudden hearing  loss most  patients  take time to become accustomed  to the 
loss and need time to evaluate how much difficulty they have.  Miss S took time to 
understand the ramifications of her hearing  loss
the case for cochlear implantation for single  sided deafness was evolving at the time 
of her original presentation and wasnt widespread  routinely offered treatment. By 
2015 it was clear Miss S was having  difficulties in her social and work environment 
and wanted treatment. But she first needed  to try options other than cochlear 
Ref: DRN10068795implantation and she tried a hearing aid. By 2018 it was clear  she had very poor 
results from the hearing aid making  cochlear implantation her last remaining route to 
improving her hearing
early implantation has benefit  but more for children who are born deaf. The urgency 
around adult patients  who become suddenly deaf is less acute although  he would 
aim for the earliest implantation possible
it would  be unreasonable to expect  Miss S to have come  to a decision  to pursue 
cochlear implantation more quickly than she did.
On the medical  evidence  I dont think BUPA can say theres been an unreasonable  delay in 
Miss S claiming for treatment.
Mr Is recent  report also gives more  evidence on the issue of whether its the accepted  
standard of medical practice in the UK to use cochlear  implant for recent hearing loss rather  
than delay. Mr I says cochlear implantation for single  sided  deafness isnt routinely  offered 
unless the patient is aware  of the pros and cons of the treatment  and it isnt available  on the 
NHS. But that doesnt mean the treatment isnt an accepted standard  of medical practice in 
the circumstances of Miss S case.  In brief Mr I explains why it is acceptable in such  
circumstances:
the role of cochlear implant in recent  hearing  loss depends on the individual  
circumstances. Ideally  the decision would be made quickly but where the other ear 
has very good hearing the case for implantation in single sided  deafness needs to be 
proven for that individual
current understanding hasnt established  a definitive point at which  cochlear implants 
would be inadvisable  following the onset of the deafness but most  experts  would not 
find a six year delay contra-indication to proceeding
Miss S had a second opinion from another cochlear  implant expert (Professor  D) who 
thought the treatment  would be beneficial for her.
Ive also taken into account the National Institute  for Health and Care Excellence  (NICE) 
guidance for cochlear implants for adults with severe to profound deafness.  In brief the 
guidance at 4.3.7 says the committee concluded that unilateral cochlear implants had been 
shown to be clinically effective. The guidance  at 4.3.8 is that unilateral  cochlear implantation  
for adults  with severe to profound deafness who didnt get adequate benefit from acoustic 
hearing aids would be a cost-effective use of NHS resources .
NICE concluded unilateral cochlear  implant wasnt routinely for NHS use for cost reasons 
rather than clinical effectiveness. But treatment could be cost effective for some people  with 
specific needs.
I understand those  NICE guidelines are based  on evidence from 2009  (with only a partial  
update in 2018). The consultants evidence is that much  has changed in this field of 
medicine since Miss S first sought  treatment, shes gone through lots of steps before 
seeking this treatment (as the NHS is likely  to require), she had very poor results from using 
a hearing aid and that in Miss S circumstances there are strong grounds for recommending  
she has a unilateral  cochlear  implant.
In reaching my decision Ive also taken  into account that BUPA  hasnt provided any specific  
medical evidence  to support their position.
Ref: DRN10068796On the overall  medical evidence I dont think BUPA can reasonably say Miss S claim for 
cochlear implant  doesn't meet generally accepted standards of medical practice and the 
definition of eligible  treatment.
outcome
I dont think BUPA can fairly rely on the reasons its given to decline the claim. It must  pay 
the claim subject to the policy  limits.
I need to consider under which policy BUPA should  pay the claim. I think BUPA  did have a 
reasonable concern about whether the claim met the definition of eligible treatment. But I'm 
satisfied that Mr Is September  2019 evidence together with the other medical  evidence  
means that the claim does meet the definition.  So Miss S personal  policy  is the policy  that 
applies.
I dont think BUPA needs to pay Miss S additional compensation for her distress  and 
inconvenience in it not accepting the claim sooner as without Mr Is latest evidence  I may 
well have not upheld  the complaint.
I dont know if Miss S paid a fee for Mr Is September  2019 report. If she did although  Ive 
upheld the complaint I dont think BUPA needs  to pay the fee as its for Miss S to provide 
evidence to support  her complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
Miss S and BUPA accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss S and BUPA have accepted my provisional decision Ive no reason to change my 
mind. For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I uphold  this 
complaint. BUPA must  pay Miss S claim subject  to the policy limits.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
I require BUPA Insurance Limited  to pay Miss S claim subject to the policy limits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1006879