K821x#15complaint
Mr S trading  as S has complained that Tradewise  Insurance  Company Limited  poorly 
investigated a claim made against his motor trade insurance policy. 
background
Mr S renewed his motor  trade policy on 27 November 2018. On 26 November 2018 his 
insurer, Tradewise received notice of a claim against Mr Ss policy for an alleged  incident on 
15 November 2018. 
As Tradewise opened the claim for investigation,  this meant Mr Ss premium  for the 
2018/2019 year increased and he had to pay an additional amount. 
In February 2019  Mr S complained to Tradewise about its investigation. He told it from the 
outset that he wasnt  involved  in the incident. 
Tradewise partially  upheld Mr Ss complaint. For the delay it caused it paid him £50 
compensation. It discovered that the third party insurer (TPI) had incorrectly recorded the 
registration of the car as Mr Ss. It refunded  the extra premium Mr S had paid.
Mr S thought  Tradewise  should pay him compensation in the region of £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience  it caused him over four months. 
Our investigator thought Tradewise could have  handled  the investigation better by making 
further enquiries sooner. And if it had, she thought  the claim would have been  withdrawn  
much sooner  and the inconvenience  caused  would have been  much less. So she 
recommended Tradewise pay Mr S a further £100 compensation. And she thought 
Tradewise should  pay interest on the extra premium Mr S had to pay from the date he paid it 
to the date it was refunded to him. 
Mr S didnt agree. He wants  £300 compensation. Tradewise said it would only agree to pay 
a further £50 compensation. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tradewise received a letter from the TPI on 26 November  2018. So at this point Tradewise 
correctly opened  a claim against Mr Ss policy. However, I think Tradewise should have 
done more sooner. From the TPIs  letter,  the name of the driver wasnt under Mr Ss policy  
and the make of car didnt match the registration of Mr Ss car. Tradewise replied to the TPI 
on 28 November 2018 and queried  the name  of the driver. But this wasnt the only 
discrepancy. 
On 29 November 2018 Mr S gave  Tradewise details of the location he was at when the 
alleged incident  took place. This wasnt anywhere  near the location the TPI referred  to. 
Ref: DRN11693452But Tradewise didnt  make any further contact with the TPI until they chased Tradewise on 
21 December 2018 for an update on liability. It was only then that Tradewise  established that 
the TP said the car involved was dark blue when  Mr Ss car was in fact silver. 
The TPI said they would make further enquiries. Mr S called Tradewise on 2 January  2019 
because he was unhappy that he had to pay an extra premium due to the open  claim. This 
seemed to prompt Tradewise to chase the TPI. But there was no follow  up until Mr S 
complained on 25 February 2019   which by this stage Tradewise had instructed an 
engineer to inspect  Mr Ss car and was in receipt of the report. 
Tradewise contacted the TPI and asked for the registration details. It was then that the TPI 
realised they had made an error  and incorrectly noted the registration  of Mr Ss car. 
Tradewise agreed  with the TPI that the claim would be removed and Mr S received a refund 
of the additional premium  he paid.  
Given that from the outset  there were two discrepancies   with the named driver  and the 
make of car  as well as Mr Ss account the day after Tradewise contacted him  I think 
Tradewise should  have done  more  sooner  to establish if the details the TPI were relying on 
were correct. So I think Tradewise caused unnecessary delay.  Further  progression on the 
claim was prompted by either the TPI or Mr S. So I think  Tradewise didnt do enough to 
actively investigate the claim  and caused Mr S distress and inconvenience. 
When things go wrong,  we look at what an insurer has done to put things right. In this case, 
Tradewise apologised  and paid Mr S £50 compensation.  It refunded the additional  premium  
hed paid due to the open claim. 
I dont think this was enough  but I dont think its service was so poor as to justify 
compensation of £300 to Mr S. I think  if it had proactively defended the claim it would have 
been closed much sooner and its unlikely that Mr S would have needed  to pay the additional 
premium. So I think  it should  pay interest on the additional premium Mr S had to pay. I think 
the overall delay  Tradewise  caused  comes to around 6 weeks  in total.  I think  Tradewise 
should pay a further £100 compensation to reflect the time and trouble its delay caused Mr S. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. 
I require Tradewise Insurance Company  Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr S £100 compensation in addition to the £50 its already paid him. 
Pay interest on the additional  premium it asked Mr S to pay due to the open claim. 
Interest  should be calculated at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date Mr S 
paid the extra  premium to the date it was refunded to him.
Tradewise must pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
Ref: DRN11693453If Tradewise considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr S how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1169345