K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1992 and 2003. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Mr C took out a mortgage with BoS in 1992.  At the same time he was sold a PPI policy.  The 
policy cost £22.50 per month. The policy covered Mr C against  not being  able to work due to 
an accident, sickness or unemployment.  In the event of a successful claim the policy  would 
have paid a monthly  benefit of £450  for up to 12 months per claim.
In 2003 the policy was cancelled, and Mr C took out a new PPI policy. The new policy also 
covered Mr C against accident, sickness  or unemployment. The policy cost £24.38 per 
month and would have paid a monthly  benefit  of £402.50 for up to 24 months if Mr C made  a 
successful claim. The policy  was cancelled in 2006.
Mr C complained to BoS about the sale of the policies. BoS didnt  agree  the PPI had been 
mis-sold and Mr C asked this service to step in.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
BoS hasnt been  able to send us the paperwork from the sales.  Mr C also has not been able 
to send us any documentation. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time 
that has gone by since  the sales took place. But where there  is limited  information, I will 
make my decision  based on whats more likely to have happened,  taking into account the 
evidence available, what both parties have told me and what  we know about these types of 
sale.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  because:
Mr C has told us he cannot recall  either  policy being  discussed with him at all. He believes 
they must  have been set up without his knowledge.
BoS cannot tell us how the policies were  sold to Mr C, they most  likely were sold during 
meetings at a branch.
From experience I think its unlikely the policies could have been  set up entirely without      
Mr Cs input. There would have been some questions around eligibility that would need  to 
have been answered before they could have been put in place. And Mr C would  likely  have 
needed to sign application forms or direct debit instructions for the policies to begin. The 
premiums would probably have been  taken from Mr Cs bank account and have appeared on 
his bank statements. Even if they were not taken  by direct debit the premium would have 
appeared on Mr Cs annual mortgage statements.
Ref: DRN17437402Weighing everything up I think  its most likely Mr C was made  aware of the policies and he 
chose to take them out. At the time these  were likely to have seemed relatively 
straightforward transactions  and not particularly  memorable so after so many  years I can 
understand why Mr C might not recall this.
BoS has told us that its staff should  have recommended the PPI policies to Mr C. In which 
case it had to check that the PPI was right for him and based  on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances in 1992 and 2003  I think that it was. I say this because:
Mr C was not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example, he 
didnt have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered. And he wasnt  in 
unusual employment  situations which might not have been  covered. So he would have been 
able to make  a claim if hed needed  to.
In 1992 Mr Cs employers  wouldve paid him some  sick pay if hed become too unwell to 
work. But this particular policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit in addition  to any sick pay, 
and for up to 12 months. This is longer than Mr Cs full sick pay would last. So I think Mr C 
wouldve found the benefit useful  if he had become too unwell to work, particularly if he was 
unwell for a prolonged period.
In 2003 Mr C had changed his employment.  Mr Cs representatives originally told us his 
employers provided  him with a policy which covered him for three  years  if he was unable  to 
work. The representatives told us Mr C still worked for the same company and the policy  
was still in place.  We asked for more details of this policy, but Mr Cs representatives  told us 
the policy had in fact ended some  years ago and details  of the policy  are now unavailable. 
Because of this I cant be sure of the type of policy, or the cover it may have provided so I 
cant say the PPI policy sold in 2003  would have duplicated Mr Cs existing cover.
At 24 months, the 2003  policy gave double  the length of benefit than the previous  policy  it 
replaced. So I think if Mr C had become too unwell to work hed have found it useful.
And if Mr C had lost his job the monthly benefit from both policies would mean he could use 
any redundancy pay for other living costs. 
Mr C did have some savings,  but the PPI policies would mean he didnt have to use his 
savings to pay the monthly mortgage  repayment  if he couldnt  work.
Mr C cant recall being given any information  about  the policies. I cant  know after all these 
years exactly what he was told or given at the time. So its possible the information  BoS 
gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But he chose to take the 
policies out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. And it seems like they would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like they were affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
In summary,  I think its likely BoS made Mr C aware the policies were optional and he chose 
to buy them.  From what Ive seen it looks as if the policies  BoS recommended  were right for 
him. And I dont think any clearer  or more complete information wouldve made him act 
differently and decline them.
Ref: DRN17437403my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  Bank  of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1743740