K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Miss H have  complained that when they corrected information on their pet 
insurance policy the premium increased.
background
Mr D and Miss H took out an insurance  policy for their pet in 2016. The information  recorded 
on the policy showed their pet to be over one years old, when their pet was under one years  
or age.
When the information was corrected making  their pet younger Mr D and Miss H expected the 
premium to reduce,  but the price of the policy went up.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pinnacle hasnt  shown Mr D and Miss H how it calculated their premium. But I wouldnt  
expect Pinnacle to make this information  available to them. The way an insurer  calculates 
its premiums  is considered commercially  sensitive  and this information  is not generally  
made available to customers.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older,  but the 
age of a pet is not the only factor that affects  the premium. For example, the cost of medical 
treatment, and insurance premium tax can also be factors.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mr D and Miss Hs policy is too high, they should have been charged 
less for the policy or that they should  be charged  less in the future.
Having looked  at the underwriting  evidence provided  by Pinnacle I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest it has treated Mr D and Miss H differently to how it would have treated 
any other policyholder  in the same position.  So I cant  tell Pinnacle to refund any of the 
premiums.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1597154