K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc wrongly registered  a CIFAS marker on her 
credit file stating that she had been a victim  of an attempt to impersonate  her.
background
In March 2018, Mrs T applied to Capital One for a credit card.  But Capital One was unsure 
that the application had genuinely been made  by her. It recorded a CIFAS  marker against 
her credit file, to the effect that she had been a victim of impersonation. Mrs T says the 
marker prevented  her from obtaining credit  elsewhere, and that this in turn prevented her 
from booking a holiday. She says Capital One did this in bad faith, that it failed to tell her 
about the marker so that she could  challenge  it, and that it ignored her complaint. She 
complained to our Service. She asked for £1,000 compensation.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that before Capital One recorded the 
CIFAS marker,  it had written to Mrs T to ask her to confirm that she had made the 
application herself. The letter had been correctly  addressed, so if it had been lost in the post 
then that was not Capital  Ones fault. Capital One had been  entitled to record the marker, as 
it had a duty to protect itself and its customers from fraud.  It had since  removed the marker,  
in 2019. It had not ignored her complaint, but had sent her a final response  letter  13 days 
after she had complained, explaining its actions  and telling her about  her right to appeal to 
this Service.
Mrs T said she did not receive that letter either.  She said it had been  fabricated  by 
Capital One after she complained to our Service. She asked for an ombudsman to review 
her case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen the letter Capital One wrote to Mrs T, dated 15 March 2018, asking her to get in 
touch and confirm  that she made the credit  card application herself. It also says that if she 
does not do so, then Capital One may amend  her credit file. It is correctly  addressed,  so if it 
was not delivered  by the mail then that is unfortunate, but I cant  blame Capital One for that.
On receiving no reply by the deadline in the letter (28 days), Capital  One recorded the 
CIFAS marker.  It was certainly entitled  to do that. It is not in dispute  that there was no fraud, 
and no-one was impersonating  Mrs T, but that does not mean that Capital One was wrong to 
take precautions  against fraud.  Banks are expected to act on suspicions, not only on 
established facts.  I wont  write a decision  which  could discourage  businesses  from taking 
reasonable steps to prevent fraud.
In an email to Mrs T on 3 April 2018,  in response to a complaint she had made about 
excessive security checks, Capital One mentioned its March  letter  and again asked her to 
get in touch. So even if the letter was lost in the post, she was told about it shortly afterwards 
by another means of communication. (That  was before the original deadline, which  was 
extended to 28 days after that email.) Capital One accepts that it should also have 
mentioned this in a phone call, and it didnt, but I think the April email  makes up for that. 
Ref: DRN15549972The marker was removed at some  time between March and May 2019. Mrs T has 
complained about how long that took, given that she complained in November 2018. I can 
see why she is complaining about  that, and I dont think  she is being unreasonable,  but at 
the same  time I accept that Capital One still had to satisfy itself that the application was 
genuine. Im satisfied that Capital One acted  in good  faith and with proper motives.
Its a shame if what happened resulted in great inconvenience to Mrs T, but that does  not 
change my view. Sometimes  banks  will suspect fraud  and take action  against  it  even 
when no fraud has actually taken place, and it is inevitable  that sometimes innocent people  
will be inconvenienced as a result.  But often  that cannot be helped.  It is better  to err on the 
side of caution,  because if banks only took action when they were  certain  that a fraud had 
definitely taken  place, then it might  be too late by then. The inconvenience of being  
defrauded is usually far greater than the inconvenience caused by ant-fraud measures, 
especially when a customer does  not get their money back.
I cannot agree that Capital One ignored Mrs Ts complaint  about  the CIFAS  marker. Three 
days after she complained (in November), Capital One replied to her email  to acknowledge 
her complaint. It attached a leaflet to that email,  explaining  that it could take up to eight 
weeks to respond to her complaint in full. I know she received that email,  because she sent it 
to us when she brought  this complaint to our Service. In fact Capital One sent her its final 
response letter eight  days later.
The reason  Mrs T says the final response letter has been fabricated  is because the first 
sentence reads #Please destroy  letter, sent via email. Since its evident that Mrs T received 
the first email, I think  its likely that she also received the email containing the final response 
letter. I accept that it wasnt  sent in the post as well, but it didnt have to be. I think  the 
sentence I have quoted  just means that the letter was edited after it was emailed to her so 
that if it was automatically  printed it would not be posted in the mail. Its a note to 
Capital Ones post department. Its not proof that the final response letter was never sent, 
and that it was concocted subsequently. There is no evidence of that.
Two months  later, after Mrs T complained that she had not received a response  to her 
complaint, Capital One emailed her again to apologise. It attached another  copy of the final 
response letter.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1554997