K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company,  complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its account without 
giving it notice and this led to a loss of business.
background
Barclays says the account  held by C was dormant and was closed in February 2018. It paid 
C £50 in compensation for poor communication.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that it do anything more. She said that once Barclays 
has identified the account as dormant  it had given C notice that it would  be closed. That 
notice had not been dispatched because there was a gone  away  marker on the account. 
And a company debit card for the director was sent out to the address Barclays  had for him 
in December 2017 and returned  undelivered. It seems the director  visited  a branch in 
January 2018  and repaid  a debit balance on the account. A new company debit card was 
issued for him and C then received statements. The final statement after the account was 
closed was sent on 22 February  2018. Although the director said he had visited a branch in 
June 2018 and had been told the account  was operating there  was no evidence  to support 
this.
C did not agree. The director did not think wed been impartial. He maintained  that he 
received the new debit  card to the correct address prior to January 2018. And that hed been  
told the account was active in June  2018. A customer  of C has unsuccessfully  tried to make 
payments to the account then and C had lost business. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After July 2017 a gone  away  marker  had been  applied to Cs account.  This meant  that 
postal statements were  stopped and no correspondence was issued by post. I understand 
that correspondence would have been added to the Barclays cloud storage system and 
would have been available online for C if it had such access.
But C had not used its account  for a number of years. And due to bank  charges  and interest 
a debit balance  had built up. On 28 November 2017 Barclays generated a closure  notice for 
the account. This said that it would clear  the outstanding debit  balance  of £64.52 and that no 
further charges  would be applied to the account before closure. The letter said that C would 
need to contact Barclays by phone if it wanted to avoid the closure.
In December 2017 Barclays issued a debit  card for the director of C. The existing card had 
expired some time earlier  and it is not clear  why this was issued. It went  to the address 
Barclays had on record and was returned to it undelivered and then destroyed.
On 15 January 2018 the address details for C were changed in branch, a new debit  card for 
the director was ordered and £64.52 paid in to clear the account overdraft. Barclays  says 
that its branch  staff would  not have  known to check that the account was due to be closed 
due to dormancy  at that time. 
Ref: DRN10472702On 30 January 2018 statements were  issued to the updated address backdated to July 
2017. On 19 February  2018 C was sent a letter stating that the free banking period would 
be coming to an end. That was the period added to stop further charges due to a dormant 
account before closure. And on 21 February  2018  the account  was closed and a closing 
statement issued to C on 22 February 2018.
The account  could  not be used for transactions. C originally said it checked in branch  in May 
2018 that the account was working. It has also said that it checked  this on 8 June 2018 
having been told that a payment  was rejected. The director said he came back from a 
business trip abroad to do so. In any event  there  is no record of this at Barclays. And it 
would be unclear how a staff member checking  for a reported problem with the account 
could have said it was open when it had been closed for a number of months.
There is no evidence that C updated its address before January 2018. And thats consistent 
with statements not being issued. As the account  has now been closed Barclays  has limited 
information about the gone away marker  and why a debit card was ordered  in December 
2017. I wont be able to resolve that either but note that this request came  close  to one made  
at the time of the change  of address in January 2018. Im also not clear why C decided to 
repay the overdraft  in January 2018 after such a long period. Thats especially as it says it 
did not know the account was being  closed. It seems based on what C says to be just an 
unfortunate coincidence that at the time Barclays had decided  to close  the account C was 
thinking about using it. And I accept what Barclays says about  its staff in branch then having  
no reason to find out and tell C that the account was being closed due to dormancy.
C thought that the account  was still operating.  But Barclays  had decided  to close  it. And it 
could not post the notice about  this to C as it did not have a valid address. Im afraid I think it 
was reasonable  for Barclays to expect C to maintain  a correct address  to receive 
correspondence. In addition C had not been using the account and an overdraft had built up. 
I think in these circumstances  it was also reasonable  for Barclays to decide to close  the 
account after the required notice period. I dont find it has made a mistake and that it can be 
responsible for any loss of business  for C.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1047270