K820x#14complaint
Mrs J has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited overcharged her for her motor insurance 
policy.
background
Mrs J took out a policy with Aviva  on the basis of holding a UK driving licence  for a year. She 
later told Aviva that shed  previously held an international driving licence. Aviva then 
recalculated Mrs Js premium and paid her a premium refund of roughly £771.
Mrs J didn't think that went far enough.  She felt that Aviva  should have refunded  her the full 
premium. So she brought  her complaint  to us. Our adjudicator didn't think  Aviva  needed  to 
do anything else. Mrs J didn't agree so her complaint's been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Mrs J initially applied for the policy online.  After  receiving  a quote her husband, Mr J, acting 
on her behalf, called Aviva to run through the details. He asked if the number of years  a UK 
licence had been held included a provisional licence Aviva confirmed that it did. He later 
added that he and Mrs J were new drivers and that this was their first policy.
Aviva set up the policy and calculated the premium on the basis  that Mrs J had held a UK 
licence for one full year.  Mrs J later found out that if she'd told Aviva about  her international 
licence then it would have charged her less. So she said that Aviva should have asked her 
about her international licence at the outset. She said it was Avivas responsibility  to disclose 
relevant information  and ask relevant questions.  And as it hadn't  done so, it should  refund 
her entire premium. But I don't think thats fair.
Ive listened to the call when Aviva  completed  the sale of the policy.  And I didnt hear 
anything within that call that should have  led Aviva to realise that Mrs J might have held an 
international licence. And Mr J didn't  refer to it. In fact he said that he and Mrs J were  new 
drivers. So I don't think Aviva could  possibly have known that Mrs J would have previously  
held an international licence.
When selling  an insurance policy its important for insurers  like Aviva  to ask relevant  
questions and to give consumers enough information to allow them to make an informed 
decision about whether not a policy might be suitable. But I wouldn't expect insurers to run 
through every possible combination of questions  that could affect a policy  premium,  unless 
there was some indication  that they should  do so. In this case, as I've already said, I haven't 
heard anything during the sales call that leads me to believe that Aviva should  have  
identified that Mrs J might have held an international licence. So I don't think it was under 
any obligation to ask questions about  that. 
Also, when it did learn about the international licence  Aviva recalculated  the premium  and 
provided a substantial refund. Avivas shown me how it calculated that refund. That 
information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mrs J. But I've seen  that its 
calculation factored in the additional  sums Mrs J would have paid in interest for paying for 
Ref: DRN15512642her premium  by direct  debit  instalments. And Im satisfied the sum was appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
It follows that I think Aviva dealt with Mrs J fairly. So Im not going to direct it takes any 
further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1551264