K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Great Lakes  Insurance SE declined her travel  insurance claim, having 
previously told her that her loss would be covered.
background
In August  2018,  Mrs D and her husband  lost their suitcase whilst on holiday abroad.  They 
were travelling from the airport to their hotel on the train, and due to a miscommunication  
between them and the train staff, there  was confusion about which stop they needed to get 
off at. During  this confusion, Mrs D and her husband got off the train leaving their suitcase  
on-board, and the train left the station. Mrs D said they reported this incident to their hotel, 
and tried to report the loss with the Rail Company, but they werent able to retrieve their 
suitcase. 
Mrs D made  a claim on her travel insurance policy for the lost suitcase. She said she was 
told that the insurer would consider the claim,  and was asked to provide some documents to 
support what shed said. However,  when Great Lakes later assessed  the claim it was 
declined.
Mrs D complained to Great Lakes because she didnt think the decision to decline the claim 
was fair. She explained the suitcase  was lost by accident, so should  be covered. She also 
complained that she was given wrong information during her first call with the insurer,  as she 
was led to believe her claim  would be covered.
Great Lakes didnt change their decision,  and explained that theyd assessed the claim in 
line with the terms  of the policy.  They  did however pay Mrs D £50 as compensation for not 
having told her that the claim wouldnt be covered during the first call. 
Mrs D wasnt happy with this, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into things  and explained  that, in his view,  Great Lakes had applied their policy terms 
to Mrs Ds claim fairly. He also said the £50 compensation was a fair amount for what 
happened when  Mrs D phoned initially.
Mrs D disagreed, so the complaints been  passed  to me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ds policy does provide cover for lost, stolen or damaged baggage. However, the policy 
also says there are certain  conditions that need to be met in order  for Great Lakes to pay a 
claim. One of these  conditions says that you must take suitable precautions to ensure the 
safety of your baggage, and must not leave it unsecured or unattended or beyond your 
reach at any time in a place to which the public have access.
Theres no dispute that Mrs D and her husband  left their suitcase unattended  and beyond 
their reach in a public place, once theyd got off the train without it. Im satisfied that, by 
making the decision to leave  the train without  the suitcase, albeit in a state of confusion or 
panic, they werent  taking  suitable precautions to ensure the safety of their baggage. So Im 
satisfied that Great  Lakes have applied their policy terms correctly  in this case. But I still 
Ref: DRN11132072need to decide whether I think it was fair for Great  Lakes  to do so, given Mrs Ds individual 
circumstances and what happened.
I do understand why Mrs D and her husband  may have  been confused  about  which  stop to 
get off the train. They were in an unfamiliar area,  and they didnt speak the same language 
as the train staff. I also appreciate how stressful and frustrating it must have been to have to 
continue their holiday without their suitcase. 
I accept the loss of the suitcase was an accident, and that successful claims can sometimes 
be made for lost baggage under a travel  insurance policy.  But an insurer  is entitled to be 
satisfied that a policyholder took reasonable care  or that theres nothing else the 
policyholder couldve  done differently in the circumstances  before accepting  a claim. 
In all the circumstances Im satisfied that Great Lakes have applied their policy  terms and 
declined Mrs Ds claim fairly. Mrs D and her husband left their suitcase  on the train 
unattended, and the train then left without them. In my view,  this means that Mrs D did not 
take reasonable care.
Great Lakes have compensated  Mrs D for the fact that they didnt tell her the claim wouldnt 
be covered in her initial call with them, when they could have done.  Ive listened to this call, 
and whilst I agree the insurer  may have had enough information to decide that the conditions  
of the policy  had not been met, they gave no assurances that the claim  would be successful. 
Generally, insurers will take some time to consider the facts of whats  happened, rather than 
giving a decision immediately when theyre first contacted. The call handler explained that 
she could put the claim  through  for consideration, but she couldnt say whether it would be 
paid or not. So I cant agree that Mrs D was given the assurance  her claim would be paid, 
and I consider £50 is a fair amount to compensate her for any impact  of Great Lakes delay  
in declining the claim.
my final decision
Considering everything, and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1113207