K822xComplaint
Mr W complains Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays  Partner Finance) 
(BPF) treated him unfairly after a loan was taken out in his name by someone else.
Background 
Mr W received  a letter from BPF early in October 2018 congratulating him on taking a £1,579 
loan with the company to purchase  a new smartphone. Mr W contacted BPF by phone on 16 
October 2018 to say that he hadnt taken a loan and the account must have been  opened  
fraudulently. He was unhappy about  this. Mr W then spoke to BPF again  the following day. As a 
result of this conversation  Mr W understood hed receive  some  fraud paperwork  to complete 
and return to BPF. When Mr W received  the paperwork he took it to a branch of his bank so it 
could verify  his ID, also in October 2018,  and they agreed to post it to BPF for him.
BPF started  chasing  Mr W for loan repayments  again from early December 2018. When Mr W 
began to receive communications from BPF about  being in arrears, he made a complaint. BPF 
said they hadnt received his fraud paperwork and sent out another  copy  for him to complete, 
also offering £75 compensation which Mr W didnt accept. Mr W said he was unhappy  at having 
to complete another set of forms.
In the meantime, it appears that various  messages and letters  were  sent to Mr W about the lack 
of payment on the account. On 22 January 2019 Mr W went back into the bank branch. The 
branch rang BPF and explained they had been  trying to send information to BPF on behalf  of 
Mr W but it appeared to have been  lost. BPF told the branch that Mr Ws complaint was closed 
and hed need to take the matter  up with the Financial Ombudsman Service,  which  he did the 
following day. It appears the branch  emailed  BPF with copies of Mr Ws documents at this point. 
Mr W also made a complaint to his bank about the loss of his documents, for which he was 
subsequently offered  £200 compensation.
While Mr Ws case was waiting to be looked  at here,  he continued to receive communications 
from BPF about arrears,  some of which said his account would be handed  over to debt 
collectors, and on 12 February  2019  BPF registered the account as defaulted with the credit  
reference agencies.  Mr W called BPF on 13 February 2019 to reiterate that he hadnt  applied 
for the loan and he wanted things to be reinvestigated. One of our investigators wrote to BPF a 
few days later, and BPFs complaints team noticed  that it had received some fraud paperwork, 
and arranged for this to be passed to the fraud  team.  The fraud team  then accepted Mr W had 
been a victim of impersonation and wrote to him on 19 February 2019 to confirm he didnt have  
a loan, and that it had taken steps  to restore and protect his credit file. 
BPF sent an email to this service explaining  what had happened, also on 19 February 2019. In 
this email it offered  £100 to settle the complaint. 
Another one of our investigators then looked into Mr Ws complaint and concluded the offer of 
£100 was fair. Mr W disagreed; he noted  BPF had chased him for a debt that wasnt his for 
several months, and £100 compensation was not enough for this. Our investigator agreed  to 
pass his case to an ombudsman to review.
While Mr Ws case was waiting to be reviewed, BPF wrote  to the investigator to say that it had 
noticed it had had a phone call with Mr W on 22 February 2019  on which he had accepted £150 
compensation to resolve his complaint (it has since transpired that no such conversation took 
place  although Mr W was sent a cheque  for this amount which  he hasnt cashed). 
Ref: DRN12868972BPF said because the investigator had concluded  £100 was a fair offer,  and Mr W had already  
received more than this, it didnt propose to pay him the £100 it had offered on 19 February 
2019 on top of what  hed already received. Our investigator emailed Mr W to let him know about  
this development.  As far as I can see, he hasnt  replied  to this email.
The case  has now been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute in this case that Mr W has been  the victim of impersonation fraud and a 
BPF account  was opened by someone else in his name. There also appears to be agreement  
on both sides that the standard of service Mr W received from BPF after he reported his 
concerns of fraud fell below an acceptable  standard. Where Mr W and BPF disagree is on what  
amount of compensation is fair, so this is the issue I have to decide.
In coming to my decision Ive investigated  further the sequence of events that took place after 
Mr W reported the fraud to BPF. After all, in order to assess whether the compensation offered 
is fair, its important to determine,  as far as possible, what  actually happened  and the impact  it 
had on Mr W.
I requested some further information from BPF and, based on what  Ive received back,  it seems  
Mr Ws paperwork was not lost after all. BPF scanned the original paperwork onto its systems 
on 26 November 2018 and put it in the correct queue to be reviewed by the fraud department, 
but for an unknown reason it was overlooked. The paperwork was not found and brought  to the 
fraud teams attention  until after Mr W brought his complaint to this service. 
There were a few occasions after the paperwork was scanned onto the system when I think 
BPF should reasonably have checked and discovered that it had received it. After it began  
pursuing Mr W again for repayments, BPF spoke  to him (or sometimes  to Mr Ws bank calling 
on his behalf) on 13 and 16 December 2018,  18 and 22 January  2019, and 13 February 2019. 
Its clear that the paperwork was discussed  on at least some of these  calls but it seems  Mr W 
was either  informed it had not been received, or (from 18 January  2019 onwards) that his 
complaint had been closed and there was nothing that could be done for him. 
I have to conclude  then, that the root cause of what happened was BPFs error in overlooking  
the fraud paperwork it had received from Mr W and scanned onto its systems on 26 November 
2018. BPF then failed  to spot its error until 19 February 2019 despite  having had several 
opportunities to do so. This caused  it to wrongly  pursue Mr W for a debt that wasnt his and 
register (albeit briefly) a default on his credit  file. Mr W had to expend time and energy in getting 
things sorted  out. He had to make a number of phone calls and he had to visit his branch  to 
investigate what had happened to his documents. He also seems  to have been very worried  
about being held responsible for a loan he hadnt  taken out, and BPFs errors contributed to 
that.
Ref: DRN12868973At times I think  BPF could also have been  more helpful. Once it considered it had resolved  
Mr Ws complaint  by telling him it hadnt received his documents  and offering him £75, it simply 
told him he needed to refer his complaint to this service whenever he (or Mr Ws bank) 
contacted it about the issue. While  I can understand  why a financial  business would want to 
avoid continuing  dialogue with a complainant  after it had sent a final response,  I think BPF 
could still have checked whether it had received the paperwork, especially when it was 
contacted by Mr Ws bank, which confirmed it had sent it.
I turn now to the question of what BPF has offered to resolve  the complaint. Our investigator 
concluded £100 was fair compensation, taking into account the delay in accepting  Mr Ws fraud 
claim. Having thought  about the sequence  of events  Im not convinced  this was enough, as not 
only was there a delay  in accepting the claim due to an error by BPF, there were a number of 
opportunities for BPF to discover and correct  the error which  it didnt take advantage of. BPF 
was also not very helpful at times, and the impact of its actions, or failures to act, appears  to 
have caused Mr W a fair amount of distress  and inconvenience. Overall I think a larger amount 
of compensation  would have been  fairer. 
However, BPF sent Mr W a cheque for £150 in March 2019, and I also take into account the 
fact Mr W has been  offered £200  compensation from his bank for losing his documents (which, 
as it turns  out, it hadnt),  and that offer is still available  to him. So really  Mr W has either 
received or been offered a total of £350  for whats happened.  When  thinking about  the entire 
set of issues Mr W has experienced, I think thats a fair amount. I appreciate  that some of the 
compensation has been offered by another financial business, but Im required  to make a 
decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the 
case. I think the amount Mr W has been offered in compensation from his bank is relevant here, 
and I dont think, in light of that separate compensation, that it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to require BPF to pay any more than it has already offered to pay.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint  in part and order Clydesdale  Financial  Services  Limited to pay £150  
compensation to him. It should check again  that Mr W has not cashed the cheque he was 
previously sent, in order to avoid inadvertently  paying him twice.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1286897