K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide  Building Society  rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1975  in respect of a deposit  paid to a wedding  venue.
background
In July 2016 Mr D made a payment  of £4,500  to a wedding venue, which I will call L, using 
his Nationwide  credit  card.  He had made an earlier payment of £500 using a different credit 
card. The first payment was described  as a booking  deposit and the second was described  
as a further deposit made 12 months  before the wedding was due to take place. The 
wedding was to be between his daughter and her fianc, but regrettably the relationship 
broke down  and it was cancelled.
Mr D asked for the return of his deposit, but L refused and referred to its terms and 
conditions which said the payment was non-refundable. He then asked  Nationwide  to make  
a chargeback. It said that it was too late to do this and it gave consideration to a potential 
claim under Section  75. 
However, it concluded there wasnt a valid claim.  It said that for a claim to succeed there 
must be a link between the parties; this is known as the "debtor-creditor-supplier" (DCS) link. 
It explained that such a link is broken when a purchase is made on behalf  of a third party  
and it considered that to be the case with Mr Ds claim. 
It said that regardless of the reasons Mr D paid for the services on behalf of his daughter  the 
fact remained that he paid for these for the benefit of someone else.  It noted he had 
explained that he had made it clear to L that he was the customer  and that all 
correspondence should go to his daughter, but the bills to him. 
However, Nationwide noted that all the correspondence, including the confirmation  letter  and 
invoice was in the name  of Miss D and her fianc. It argued that this showed the contract  
was in their names  and due to this they formed a third party in this transaction which broke  
the DCS  link. It also said that even if DCS link hadnt  been broken it didnt think his claim 
was valid.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He said Mr D wasnt  noted on any of the 
correspondence even  though he had made  both payments. He went on to say that the 
purchasers were Miss D and her fianc as they were the ones getting married. Had either  of 
them made the payment then the DCS  link would have remained intact.
Mr D didnt agree and said there  is no provision in the Consumer Credit Act 1974 to negate 
the obligation on the creditor  to the debtor if the "benefit" is transferred. He pointed out there  
was an error  in the invoicing addresses, and that he and his daughter would have  been  joint 
beneficiaries. He maintained that he was the sole purchaser and he referenced  a decision by 
a colleague which he said supported  his claim.
Ref: DRN18166892my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr D and I thank  him for his clear  and well set out arguments. 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
I think it best to start with the relevant legislation. Section  75 says:
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within  section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the 
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
So there has to be an agreement linking the three  parties. In this case the debtor is Mr D, the 
creditor is Nationwide and the supplier is L. The question is does Mr D have a link with L 
such that he may make a claim  under Section  75? Or to put it another way is he party  to an 
agreement with L. 
The documentation  supplied by Mr D is all addressed to his daughter  and fianc. The initial  
letter states: [L] is now reserved for you on Sunday July 16, 2017, for your planned wedding  
and reception.  I acknowledge  receipt of your Booking Deposit payment of £500 against  the 
final cost of the Event and confirm that your invoice for a further deposit of £4500 will be 
forwarded to you for payment by Thursday  16 June 2016.
Our invoice  for the balance of the costs will be forwarded to you for payment  by Friday 23 
June 2017.
The invoice for £500 is in the name of Miss D and her fianc and marked  received with 
thanks.
The third document  is a letter dated  17 May addressed to Miss D and her fianc. It opens: 
Further  to your booking of [L] before requesting the further deposit.
I have also noted  that when Mr D was seeking  to get his money back L responded and said 
The reservation of [L] was made by [Miss D] and Mr X back  on the 1st September 2015. 
Mr D has explained that he asked L to send  all correspondence to his daughter  as she was 
making the arrangements and it would be pointless  to send it to him only for him to have to 
pass it on to her. He explained that L made  an error in not using his name on the invoice.
I appreciate the organising of a wedding is often a family matter embracing one or more 
members of the family.  However,  I can see nothing in this paperwork  that supports the 
argument that Mr D had a link with L as required by Section 75. To do so I have to accept 
that all the paperwork  was incorrectly addressed and L had, in effect,  entered  into an 
agreement with Mr D and not the recipients of the letters and the invoice. 
Ref: DRN18166893Furthermore, Ls response  to his request for a repayment indicates that it believed it had 
entered into a contract with his daughter and her finance. 
I accept that Mr D wasnt intending to pass the cost on to his daughter  or her fianc and so 
has borne  the loss. In the circumstances  I think it can be regarded  as a gift on his part. 
Section 75 does apply in circumstances  where  a person buys goods  or services which they 
then gift to another. But that is where they have  an agreement  with the supplier to acquire 
the goods or services and they then gift them to another. 
It seems  to me that Miss D and her fianc had entered into an agreement with L and that 
was then being funded,  in part at least, by Mr D. If the wedding had gone ahead  and there  
had been, say some damage and L had sought  to charge for that damage I believe it would 
only have recourse against the people  with whom it had legally contracted; Miss D and her 
finance. It wouldnt have  recourse against  Mr D even though  he had paid for the venue.
If it is accepted that Mr D had an agreement with L then he has challenged the investigators 
view that the payment  wasnt for his benefit. Mr D has argued that the payment he made 
was for the benefit of himself,  his wife and his daughter. He references a decision made by a 
colleague. I would point out that each decision is made on its own facts and I believe the 
circumstances in the other case are somewhat different. 
In that case two people were  living  as partners and one bought clothes for the other.  The 
invoice was in the name  of the partner for whom  the clothes were  intended  and the payment 
was made  by the other. However it was accepted that the payer had chosen and paid for the 
suits. Mr D has told us that Miss D and her fianc carried  out the research and chose the 
venue. Mr Ds role, as he has pointed out was to be the payer.  He didnt make a gift of 
something he had acquired or paid for. He simply paid for the contract into which Miss D and 
her fianc had entered.
As I said at the outset  of my decision I have  a great  deal of sympathy for Mr D, but I do not 
believe I can uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision before 
3 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1816689