K821x#15complaint
Mr H says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 15 payday  and 4 instalment loans  MY JAR provided to Mr H 
between June 2013 and September 2017. Mr H firstly borrowed payday loans ranging in 
amounts increasing  from £100 to £500. There were short intervals  between  repayment of a 
previous loan and taking  out a new loan. 
There was then a break  of about  two years  in the lending. Mr H then took out two instalment 
loans to be repaid  in three monthly  instalments, one to be repaid  in six instalments and one 
to be repaid in 12 instalments. The amounts to be repaid ranged between about £80 and 
£470 a month.  From  what I can see, there is an outstanding balance  owing for loan 19. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint in part and thought the loans from 5 to 15 and loan 
19 shouldnt have been given. MYJAR disagreed.  It offered redress for four of Mr Hs loans. 
But Mr H was unhappy with this and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN15169932I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
There was a significant gap after loan 15 in Mr Hs borrowing  history  with MYJAR. So Ill 
treat loans 1 to 15 as one chain of lending and loans 16 to 19 as a second chain. 
MYJAR asked Mr H for information about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mr H said he earned £4,000 a month and his expenditure ranged between  
£500 and £1,400 a month. I cant see that MYJARs credit checks showed any significant  
concerns that should have prompted further questions. 
For loans 1 to 4, and loans  16 to 18, given the loan amounts and expected  repayments,  
what was apparent about Mr Hs circumstances at the time and his history with MYJAR, I 
dont think it wouldve been  proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed to 
show the lending  was unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the information Mr H provided 
or the information MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant  it wouldve been  
proportionate to start verifying what Mr H was saying. So I cant say it was wrong  for MYJAR  
to have approved  these  loans. 
But I think the pattern  of Mr Hs borrowing should have prompted concerns for loan five. As 
our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan five would most likely have shown 
that Mr H was struggling to repay his loans:
This was his fifth loan in four months with small or no gaps in the borrowing;
The amounts  that Mr H was borrowing had increased significantly and Mr H had been 
late in repaying  loan four.
So I think MYJAR should have realised that there was a significant  risk that Mr H would be 
unable to sustainably  repay loan 5, or any subsequent loans up to loan 15. So I think  it was 
wrong to have approved these.
Similarly, by loan 19 Mr H had borrowed four times in two months.  The amount borrowed 
had increased  significantly.  New loans were taken  out the same day a previous loan was 
repaid. The loan terms had increased  from 3 to 12 months. So I think MYJAR should have 
realised that there was a significant  risk that Mr H would be unable to sustainably repay loan 
19 and I think it was wrong to have  approved  this. 
Ref: DRN15169933Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mr H with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
seven. I say this because:
By loan seven, Mr Hs pattern of borrowing showed that he was persistently reliant on 
short-term loans.  Mr H had borrowed six times in six months for increasing amounts.
 
From  loan 7 to 15 Mr H was provided with a new loan within days or weeks  of settling a 
previous one. So MYJAR ought to have  realised it was more  likely than not that Mr H 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in 
his finances and that Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr H wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed MYJAR.  Loan 15 was taken 
out 14 months after Mr Hs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr H had paid large  
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to MYJAR  over an extended  period.
I think that Mr H lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing from loan 7 to 15 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing  him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Hs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-
cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 7 to 15 and MYJAR should put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 5 to 15 and 19, offset  this against any 
capital still outstanding for loan 19 and pay Mr H the remainder;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 5, 6 and 19 from Mr Hs credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 7 to 15 means any information recorded  about them  
is adverse. So all entries about  loans 7 to 15 should be removed from Mr Hs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Hs complaint. I 
require MYJAR Limited to pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN15169934Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1516993