K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) refused his claim 
brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  He says he was denied  boarding  
an aircraft despite  having paid for tickets. He wants a refund.
background
Mr K tells us that he booked flights for himself  and his family  on a flight  that was due to leave 
the UK in December  2017. The flights were operated  by a company Ill refer to as B. And 
Mr K says he paid the fares of over £3,000 on his AESEL credit card. He says he checked 
the airport website  and could see that the flight departure - which  was scheduled  for 09.50 - 
was showing as delayed  by around an hour. He states that hed checked in online and had 
received boarding passes. But in view of the delay he decided  to arrive at the airport  later 
than he had originally  intended. Mr K says that he arrived at the airport bag drop desk about 
09.15 but was told he couldnt  board  the flight as hed arrived too late. Mr K feels  his seats 
were released before  the security  deadline.  And that he was incorrectly  denied  boarding.
AESEL told us it hadnt upheld Mr Ks complaint  as there hadnt  been any misrepresentation 
or breach of contract  by B. In particular it said Mr K hadnt provided evidence to show that B 
had advised him of any change in the deadline  for dropping off luggage.  And it said the time 
of departure was subject to change and wasnt part of the contract of carriage with B. It said 
Mr Ks claim that B was in breach of a European Union regulation wasnt actionable against 
AESEL. It stated that AESEL was only liable under section 75 for any breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by B.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said neither AESEL 
nor B had been  responsible for Mr Ks late arrival at the airport.  And she didnt think thered 
been any breach  of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr K didnt agree with this outcome and thought there had been insufficient or no regard 
paid to whether  there was a breach of the Consumer Rights Act 2015. As its not been 
possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr K and his family  had the unfortunate  experience of not being allowed to 
board the plane on which  they had booked  seats. And I accept  this was the source of 
inconvenience as well as financial  loss.
Under section 75, a consumer has the right in certain circumstances to make a claim against 
the provider of the credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the goods. A breach of contract  might occur if services  which  had been paid for 
were not supplied. 
Ref: DRN10947872Its worth  making clear  that Im not deciding AESELs liability  under  section  75 - only a court  
could do that. We take into account  the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we 
decide cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires  us to do. What 
Im deciding is whether  AESEL did enough  in considering  Mr Ks complaint. And if it didnt, 
what else it should now do.
In this complaint  there isnt any significant  dispute about the timeline of events or what  
happened. But where any facts  are in dispute  I make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Briefly summarised, Bs conditions of carriage require customers  to complete certain pre- 
boarding processes within certain time limits which are set out on its website. And it includes 
check in times and times of arrival at the boarding gate. And the conditions further state that 
carriage may be declined if the customer fails to meet the deadlines.
Whilst Mr K checked with the airport website and noticed the forecast delay to the flight Ive 
seen no information  that he was advised  by B that the times of baggage check in had been 
altered. Mr K makes  the point that Bs website states that check-in close  time is 60 minutes 
before the flight departs. And he contrasts  this with the scheduled time of departure. His 
argument appears to be that as the flight had been delayed by around an hour (10.48) this 
meant by arriving at the baggage drop at 09.15 he was within that limit.
I understand the point Mr K is making but I dont  agree with him. In practical  terms the actual 
time of departure cannot be known in advance - only after its occurred. So its reasonable 
that - where a time limit is imposed with reference  to a scheduled time of departure  - a 
customer should comply  with that unless specifically advised by the supplier that a different 
time applies. Whats  happened here is that Mr K has acted upon the assumptions he made, 
and which  proved to be incorrect.
I dont think anything turns on Mr Ks belief that AESELs investigation related to a delayed 
flight as opposed  to denied boarding. Nor do any provisions of the CRA affect the outcome. 
The basic  question that needs to be addressed is whether B did anything wrong in denying  
Mr K access  to the flight. The final response  letter refers to both the delayed  departure times 
of the flight and the allegation of denied boarding. So Im satisfied AESEL identified the 
substance of the complaint accurately and dealt  with it. 
Im also aware that Mr K referred  to the EU Regulation on denied boarding. Its not for me to 
decide if section  75 applies  to a breach of this regulation. It would appear to require a legal  
ruling as to whether the terms  of the regulation were incorporated into the contract. And 
thats not something within  my jurisdiction to determine.
But I dont think AESEL  was being  unfair when it decided it wasnt  directly liable under 
section 75 for any breach  of this regulation. I think its also clear that the regulation is 
directed towards  circumstances  where  the airline is at fault. And a passenger suffers 
inconvenience or loss due to flight delays, cancellations or overbooking.  I dont think  this 
applies to these circumstances. Any inconvenience and/or loss experienced by Mr K was, in 
my opinion, the result of his decision to delay his arrival at the airport.
In summary,  I find AESEL dealt with Mr Ks claim fairly and reasonably. I shant be asking it 
to do anything else. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN10947873my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1094787