K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC incorrectly and unfairly  closed his bank  account.  He 
also says that it has blocked  his online access to the account  and wont speak to him on the 
phone, so he cant deal with the remaining balance. Mr D also complains about the way that 
Lloyds has dealt with him.
background
In late 2018, Mr D held a bank account with Lloyds. Another bank told Lloyds that fraudulent  
payments had been made from one of its account  to Mr Ds account  with Lloyds. On hearing  
that, Lloyds blocked Mr Ds account.
Lloyds said that when Mr D spoke to it about the block  over the phone  he was abusive. It 
said that it wasnt prepared to continue to speak  to Mr D on the phone, so it told him he 
would have to go to a branch. Mr D says this caused him significant  inconvenience.
Mr D told us that when  he visited the branch, he was able to see information on a staff 
members screen. He took a photograph of that information, which included the words 
customer  has been a confirmed beneficiary  of fraudulent funds . Mr D says that statement is 
both incorrect and slanderous.
Lloyds eventually received confirmation  that the transfers from another bank were  not in fact 
fraudulent. But it maintained its decision  to give Mr D 60 days  notice that it was closing his 
bank account.  Mr D thinks Lloyds  overreacted and treated him unfairly.  He says that Lloyds 
continued to block  access to his account, which meant he incurred interest and went over his 
overdraft limit  which in turn affected his credit score. 
Mr D also complains that Lloyds promised to put a hold on his account for 30 days,  then 
failed to honour that promise.  Lloyds said that placing the hold stopped  all collection activity  
 but it did not stop late payment markers from being reported to credit reference agencies.
As of February 2019, Mr D said that Lloyds was still applying interest to his account, and still 
allowing direct debits  to leave the account,  but had blocked his entire access  so he had no 
visibility at all regarding the account.
Mr D says this matter  has caused him a great  deal of stress, which has led to a medical 
condition flaring  up. He says that Lloyds  were aware  of his medical condition and should 
have treated him as a vulnerable customer. He also says he has lost earnings due to the 
levels of stress and ignorance Lloyds put me through.
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Ds complaint. Briefly, he said:
He was satisfied  that the relationship between Mr D and Lloyds had broken  down.  In 
the circumstances, Lloyds was entitled both to make  the business  decision to close  
Mr Ds Lloyds account, and to demand  that Mr D repay  his overdraft. Lloyds  gave 
Mr D appropriate notice  of its decisions, and so Lloyds should not be required to pay 
any costs Mr D incurred because of the account closure.
Lloyds did not always respond in a timely  manner to contact from Mr D. Lloyds  has 
accepted that, and offered  Mr D £350 in compensation.  That was fair in respect of 
Lloyds failure to respond to Mr D.
Ref: DRN17475662However, Lloyds should pay an additional  £100 compensation to Mr D, to recognise  
the impact of its failure to explain the effect of its actions on Mr Ds credit  file. In 
particular, Lloyds  should have explicitly told Mr D that the hold would not prevent late 
payment markers.  He didnt think that issue caused  Mr D any financial loss  
because Mr D wasnt able to repay the overdraft in any event  but he thought  Mr D 
suffered some avoidable distress because of Lloyds failure to fully explain matters. 
Neither party agreed with our investigators  findings.  Lloyds thought  it should not have to pay 
anything more, and Mr D thought Lloyds should have to pay him significantly more than an 
additional £100.
To resolve  the complaint,  Mr D has asked  for the full balance to be remitted, the correction  
put through for my credit file and £1550.46 (lost wages) to be compensated to me. I 
understand that by remit  the full balance, Mr D means that he would like Lloyds to write off 
the balance of his overdraft
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September  2020.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Lloyds has 
already done enough  to resolve this complaint. Unless I receive further evidence or 
arguments that cause me to change my mind, I do not intend to order it to pay Mr D 
any more than it has already offered. I explain further below.
I think our investigator was right to say that, by late 2018, the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr D had entirely broken down. I acknowledge that Mr D says he was not 
abusive to Lloyds staff, but I have listened to calls between the parties and I do not 
criticise Lloyds  for its decision to close Mr Ds account. Similarly, I do not criticise 
Lloyds for its decision not to speak to Mr D over the phone. I believe Lloyds when it 
says it would have  closed Mr Ds account regardless of whether the transfers into it 
turned out to be fraudulent.
I know Mr D believes  that Lloyds has access to telephone recordings that it has not 
shared with our service. Lloyd says it has searched for the calls Mr D mentioned,  but 
it cannot find them. It is impossible for me to be certain about whether Lloyds does or 
does not have access to the disputed calls. But in either case,  given Mr Ds 
behaviour during the calls I have listened  to, I am satisfied that listening to further 
calls would  not change  my opinion that Lloyds was entitled to decide to close  Mr Ds 
account.
Like our investigator,  I am satisfied that Lloyds gave Mr D appropriate notice of its 
decision to close his Lloyds bank account.  That meant Lloyds  was no longer 
prepared to offer an overdraft facility to Mr D  and again I have  no concerns about 
Lloyds decision to withdraw that facility.
Since I dont think Lloyds made a mistake in closing  Mr Ds account,  I do not intend 
to order it to reimburse any losses, including loss of income, that Mr D may have 
suffered as a result  of that decision.  I dont think Lloyds made  any mistakes in 
reporting information to credit  reference  agencies, and so I dont think it should have 
to issue any corrections in that regard.
 
Ref: DRN17475663I see no reason why Mr D should  not be required to repay the money he borrowed 
from Lloyds, and so I do not intend  to order Lloyds to write off any part of his 
overdraft.
The remaining  issue  is the amount Lloyds should pay Mr D to apologise  for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him. Lloyds accepts that its failure to respond in 
a timely  manner did cause some  inconvenience,  and it offered £350  compensation. 
Our investigator thought Lloyds should pay another £100 because  it didnt fully 
explain the impact of its actions on Mr Ds credit file. Mr D considers Lloyds should 
pay considerably  more than another £100.
I entirely accept that Lloyds could have done  more to warn Mr D about the 
consequences of putting collections on hold. But in this particular case,  I dont think  a 
further explanation would  have made  any difference. Given Mr Ds occupation (as 
recorded on our complaint  form) I consider it likely that he knew what  the impact  
would be even without  Lloyds telling him. Even  if he didnt know  the impact of the 
hold, I consider that his failure to repay  his overdraft on demand would have had a 
much bigger  impact on his credit file than a single late payment marker.
I also accept that Mr D should not have been able to see the Lloyds staff members 
screen. But there is nothing to suggest that anyone other than Mr D and Lloyds staff 
saw the information. Given that another bank had told Lloyds that certain payments 
had been made fraudulently, I see nothing wrong in Lloyds recording that 
information.
In the overall circumstances,  I consider  that Lloyds offer of £350  represents a fair 
and reasonable resolution to Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D did not accept my provisional findings, and explained why he thought  the Financial 
Ombudsman Service had not investigated the matter properly.
Lloyds confirmed that it had received my provisional  decision but had no further  comments 
to make.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments from the outset to decide whats  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I acknowledge that Mr D is concerned about the adequacy of my investigation, but there is 
very little I can add to my provisional  findings.  Lloyds  was entitled to decide it did not wish to 
retain Mr D as a customer, regardless of whether  his account had ever received a fraudulent  
transfer. Lloyds  gave Mr D appropriate notice of its decision to close  his account.  It is 
understandable that Mr D disagrees with Lloyds  decision, but it was nevertheless Lloyds 
decision to make  and I see no reason for me to interfere with Lloyds judgement.
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  I remain satisfied that Lloyds  offer of £350  
represents a fair resolution to his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I order Lloyds Bank Plc to pay Mr D £350.
Ref: DRN17475664Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 December 2020.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1747566