K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2001 when Mrs R took out a credit card by post with Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC 
(Tesco). Mrs R says Tesco  mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 5 August 2019, a copy  extract of which is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. Neither Tesco or Mrs R have  given any further information.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained previously, I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint against Tesco 
Personal Finance  PLC.  But Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does have  to pay back  to Mrs R 
any commission and profit share it got as outlined  in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Im currently  thinking of not upholding  Mrs Rs complaint  because:
Ref: DRN16229672Tesco needed to make  it clear to Mrs R that she didnt have  to take out the PPI. I think Tesco did 
make this clear and I think she chose to take it out. She was given the option to select  PPI in a 
separate section to the credit on the credit agreement by ticking a box. I can see on the credit  
agreement she ticked the box to take PPI. If she didnt  want PPI she couldve left the boxes clear  like 
she did in other sections on the credit  agreement.  She then went  on to sign confirming  her choice. So 
I think  she wouldve understood she didnt have to take the PPI - although I can understand why she 
cant remember this.
I dont think Mrs R was advised to take the cover.  What  this means is that Tesco didnt  recommend 
PPI to Mrs R, they just gave her information about PPI. This information  needed  to be given in a way 
that was clear, fair and not misleading  so she could  make an informed  choice about  buying  PPI.
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
That being said even  if Tesco did give all the information  Mrs R needed to make an informed  choice 
on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
Mrs R has told us that she suffered  from a pre-existing medical condition  at the time of sale 
that wouldve been  excluded from cover under the terms and conditions  of the policy. But 
when asked  for further information and evidence about this Mrs R didnt respond.  And I 
havent seen anything to show  that her condition  led to her having time off work or that it was 
something she thought she might need time off work in the future for. 
So I cant say that I think its likely this exclusion  wouldve stopped  Mrs R from taking the 
policy. And it doesnt look like she wouldve  been caught  by any of the other main exclusions 
in the terms  and conditions of the policy which couldve  made it difficult to make a successful 
claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs S says she was entitled to some  sick pay but had no other means 
of making her repayments  if she was unable to work  or lost her job. The policy wouldve paid 
out on top of any work benefits and for potentially  longer.  So I dont think knowing  this 
information wouldve changed her mind about  taking  the policy  and I think  the policy  wouldve  
provided a useful benefit  for her in her circumstances.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs S and if she no longer wanted 
the policy  she was able to cancel  it.
So I currently  dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs R on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve  still taken out the PPI policy  as it suited her needs and was of value to 
her.
Which means Tesco doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R or refund
any interest and charges applied  to her credit  card that may have been incurred  because of
those premiums.
Ref: DRN16229673But Tesco will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because:
When the policy was sold, Tesco expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. Because 
Tesco didnt tell Mrs R, that was unfair.
To put that right, Tesco  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what Tesco needs to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit share  it got that was more
than 50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should also pay back to Mrs R any extra  interest
she paid because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs R the difference between what she 
owes and what she wouldve  owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of 
the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mrs R 8%* simple
interest if Mrs R paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs R can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I currently do not think Mrs Rs complaint should  be upheld. If my 
decision becomes final - if it has not done so already - Ill direct Tesco  Personal  Finance  PLC to pay 
the fair compensation as outlined  above.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1622967