K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  that Santander  UK Plc is continuing to pursue her for a debt which arose  
after her property was repossessed  and sold.
background
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
The background to this matter and the timeline of events have been set out in detail in the 
investigators correspondence with Mrs M and Santander, so I dont need  to repeat it here.
Briefly, Mrs M and her husband, Mr M, (from whom she is now divorced) owned  a property 
which was mortgaged to Santander. The property was repossessed by Santander in 2011  
and sold in July 2012, leaving a shortfall  of just over £113,000. This was later reduced to 
£73,663.28. In 2012  Santander instructed agents, which I will call EDS, to recover the debt.
Mrs M is unhappy  about this and has challenged EDS several  times over the years about 
whether or not its entitled to recover the debt from her, primarily because  Mr M had been 
made bankrupt. Mrs M thought the debt should have been included  in his bankruptcy.
EDS clarified that this wasnt  the case and asked  Mrs M to complete her financial statement 
and discuss payment proposals.  This information has been requested multiple  times since  
2012, but Mrs M hasnt  provided it.
In 2019 Mrs M complained to Santander, not just about debt recovery but that the property 
had been sold for much  less than it was worth. Santander didnt uphold the complaint, so 
Mrs M contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service.
On 31 October 2019 an ombudsman  issued  a decision explaining that the complaint about  
the sale of the property  wasnt something we were  able to consider. Thats because we 
needed Mr Ms consent to consider that part of the complaint.  But the ombudsman was 
satisfied that we could consider the complaint  brought by Mrs M about contact from EDS on 
behalf of Santander, as this affected  only her.
An investigator looked at the complaint about  Santanders attempts to recover  the shortfall 
debt, but didnt think it should  be upheld.  She was satisfied that Santander was entitled to 
instruct EDS to pursue  the debt, and that the attempts to contact  Mrs M were reasonable.
Ref: DRN12980732Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators findings.  Mrs M explained that shed had 57 emails 
from EDS over the year., She explained  shed been  unable to engage properly with EDS 
because of mental health issues.  Mrs M still didnt think Santander had treated her fairly and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive taken  note of everything 
Mrs M has said and Ive reviewed all the documents on file.
First of all, I confirm that I agree with my fellow ombudsmans decision that the complaint 
about the sale price  of the property isnt something  we should consider without the consent 
of Mr M. This decision, therefore, is limited to Mrs Ms complaint that Santander hasnt 
treated her fairly in relation to recovery of the shortfall debt.
Mortgage lenders  have  six years to contact a borrower about the shortfall debt on a 
repossessed property from the date the debt has arisen. Im satisfied Santander,  through  its 
agents, EDS, contacted  Mrs M within the required timescale. There  is therefore no basis  on 
which it could be argued that Santander  isnt entitled  to pursue recovery  of the debt.
I appreciate Mrs M found EDSs attempts to engage  with her to be unwelcome.  I can see 
that she countered  EDSs  requests for information  with her own questions which she wanted  
EDS or Santander to answer.
Ive reviewed all the emails Mrs M has sent us from EDS. Many of these  are in response to 
emails from Mrs M and relate to her concerns about  the marketing of the property, her 
dissatisfaction with whats happened  and queries raised by Mrs M, which she chased up 
when EDS didnt  reply. There are also several  emails from EDS asking Mrs M to contact it.
Overall, I think the contact from EDS was not unreasonable and was proportionate to its 
legitimate expectations  that Mrs M would co-operate in providing her financial information.  
Im also satisfied that EDS did its best to answer  Mrs Ms questions and referred them back 
to Santander where  appropriate.
Mrs M did not, however,  comply with EDSs requests  which I consider to be reasonable 
requests in all the circumstances  to provide a financial  statement  so that payment 
proposals could  be discussed. Given this, Im satisfied it was appropriate for EDS to repeat 
these requests and to press Mrs M for her response.
Ive noted what  Mrs M has said about her mental health and the difficulty  it would have 
posed for her to have completed a financial statement. Im very sorry Mrs M has been 
unwell, but I cant  see in her emails  that Mrs M told EDS about her health  issues or ask for 
any adjustments to be made because of it. Furthermore, from the nature of her emails  to 
EDS, Im not persuaded that EDS could, or should,  have been aware that Mrs M was 
mentally incapable of completing the financial statement, given that she was able to conduct 
detailed correspondence  with EDS, raising various issues  around  the repossession  and sale 
of the property for EDS and/or Santander  to answer.
I have no doubt  that losing  her home  was very upsetting for Mrs M and I am sorry if my 
decision adds to her distress. But after giving  careful consideration to everything shes said, 
Im afraid I dont agree that Santander or EDS have acted unreasonably.
Ref: DRN12980733I would urge Mrs M to maintain an open  dialogue with Santander and its agents, with a view 
to resolving this matter. Mrs M might  find it helpful  to speak to one of the free debt advice  
agencies such as Citizens Advice,  StepChange or Shelter. We can provide  contact  details 
for those  agencies, if Mrs M would like us to.
my final decision
I know Mrs M will be disappointed, but my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1298073