K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC are holding him liable for transactions 
totalling approximately £300 that he says he did not make or otherwise authorise.  
background
On 21 April 2018 at around 5am two cash withdrawals were successfully completed on 
Mr Hs card which he said he did not make  or otherwise authorise.  There was also an 
attempt to withdraw a further £240  in-between the two successful transactions and a further  
attempt to withdraw £90 after the second  successful transaction, but these were  blocked as 
they exceeded the daily withdrawal limit. 
Mr H contacted Tesco on 22 April and told them that he had lost his card and instead had 
someone elses Tesco credit card in his possession. He thought it must have been swapped.  
He also called to dispute the cash withdrawals as he had seen them through his mobile  
banking and didnt  recognise them. The last genuine  transaction on this card where the PIN 
code had been entered had been  on 1 April. He said he also had disputed transactions  on 
another card with another  bank. He had different  PIN codes on each of his cards and didnt 
have them recorded anywhere. 
On the night before and the morning of the disputed transactions  he had been out at a 
nightclub with friends. Mr H had some drinks  that night so his memory of what happened 
isnt entirely clear. He hadnt used his Tesco card and wasnt entirely  sure how someone got 
the card and PIN. He knew he had arrived home around 4.20am but he couldnt recall  
exactly how he got home but thought  it may have been in a taxi, and that this could have 
been where the cards were swapped. Mr H said he thinks that a taxi driver  may have got his 
PIN code  by observing  him entering it in a fake card terminal in the taxi. He thought this was 
how the cards could have been swapped too. He thinks  he may have been  told his Tesco 
card didnt work which is why he then tried to use his other card, compromising  the second 
PIN in the process. Mr H said he could prove he was in bed at the time the transactions  were 
made. He also said these transactions were out of character for him. 
Tesco declined to refund  these transactions  because: 
There was no point  of compromise for the PIN code as he had not used it that night 
The PIN code was entered correctly the first time for the disputed  transactions  
If Mr H could prove that he was at home  in bed when the transactions  took place, it 
wouldnt negate  that he could have  given his card to someone else to make these 
transactions 
There were  no attempts  to use the card again  after the disputed transactions, and a 
fraudster wouldnt have known  he had cancelled the card    
There were  no balance  enquiries around the time of the disputed  transactions  
Mr H referred  his complaint to our service, where  our investigator reviewed it and 
recommended that it be upheld  as they thought that Mr H likely  didnt consent  to the 
transactions. This was because he felt on balance  it was most likely Mr H did get in a taxi as 
he lived quite a long walk from the club and had two cancelled charges on another card form 
a ride sharing application but no further  evidence of paying for transport home.  So our 
investigator felt this provided a point of compromise  for the PIN that wouldnt have been  
shown on Tescos electronic records. Mr H had disputed transactions on another  card that 
he lost that evening that had been refunded by the other bank. Numerous attempts were 
made to withdraw  cash in a short space of time which can be indicative of fraud and the fact 
Ref: DRN18956882no further attempts  were made to use the card after the second  failed transaction may have 
been because  the fraudster thought the card had been cancelled  or didnt want  to risk going  
to a retail establishment.  Mr H did have  a strangers card in his possession which lends 
some credibility to the idea that he was the victim  of a card swap  scam  which is a known 
fraud that has happened to others.  The cash was withdrawn  at a cash point that wasnt  very 
close to the club or his home, and would  have likely meant going past his house  to get to it. 
So the investigator recommended that Tesco refund the disputed  transactions, withholding 
up to £35 in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account; and reworking Mr 
Hs account as if the transactions had never  happened. He also recommended  they give Mr 
H £100 for the distress and inconvenience  they caused by declining the request for a refund.
Tesco disagreed.  They provided our service  with evidence that the person whose card Mr H 
had in his possession had been reported  lost or stolen nearly a month prior to the when Mr H 
said he was given it. They thought it was unlikely that a fraudster would have held on to this 
card for so long before swapping  it. They  also felt that the alleged  fraud  described  by Mr H 
was very elaborate  for very little gain  only approximately £300 when his available credit 
was significantly greater.  They also felt that it was clear Mr H couldnt recall what  had 
happened and whether  he had even got in a taxi, and that there was no evidence to support 
Mr Hs version  of events. They also noted that there  had been no balance enquiries  and no 
further attempts  to use the card after the second failed attempt and they felt it more likely a 
fraudster in possession  of the card would maximise the account balance.  They  said that 
contrary to what he had told this service he had previously used his credit card to withdraw  
cash, so this wouldnt have been  out of character  for him and further led them to question his 
credibility. They felt that he may have withdrawn the cash and forgotten. 
Our investigator reviewed  the new evidence from Tesco  but it didnt change  his 
recommendation. As Tesco  didnt agree, it has come  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have reached the same  
conclusion as our investigator, for broadly  the same reasons. 
Generally, Tesco can hold Mr H liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests  
that it is more likely than not that he authorised these  payments or gave someone else 
consent to make them on her behalf.  
Tesco have  provided the technical  evidence to show the transactions  were  authenticated  by 
reading the chip in Mr Hs genuine  card and someone entering the correct PIN code 
associated with the account. But the regulations relevant to this case say that its not, on its 
own, enough to enable Tesco to hold Mr H liable. So, I need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that Mr H consented to the transactions  
being made. I have  thought carefully about  this question as I appreciate  that we may never 
know exactly what happened due to the gaps  in Mr Hs recollection and the limited evidence 
available. However,  having considered the evidence  I think  there  are broadly speaking three 
likely scenarios to explain  what happened  here. Firstly, someone unknown to Mr H made the 
transactions without  his consent. Alternatively, Mr H made the withdrawals and forgot due to 
intoxication; or he made or gave someone else consent to make  these  transactions and is 
being dishonest  in disputing the transactions in order  to make a gain for himself. Having 
Ref: DRN18956883considered these scenarios I think it is most likely  that someone unknown  to Mr H made  
these transactions  without  his consent. Ill explain why.
Due to the scarcity of evidence I have considered what  I think  happened that 
morning. Ive considered whether I agree that Mr H did most likely get a taxi home  
after his night out. There were two cancelled  charges for a ride sharing application on 
another of Mr Hs accounts.  This shows he had not intended to walk home, yet I have 
not seen evidence of any other travel charges. It is plausible  that he could have  
walked home, but on balance  I dont think that is most likely what  happened. I say 
this because of the cancelled  car bookings, the distance between the bar and his 
home, the hour of the morning and Mr Hs admission  of his intoxication  mean  I think  it 
is most  likely  he would have  tried to get a cab home. 
What I think  happened after this is that Mr H did make it home and to bed; that 
someone used Mr Hs card and made the two successful and two unsuccessful 
transactions without  making a balance enquiry, and that Mr H woke up with a card 
that another  Tesco  customer had reported  as lost or stolen over a month before. 
Tesco have argued that it seems  unlikely a fraudster would hold onto another  card 
for over a month  in order to swap it with Mr Hs and then only withdraw  around  £300 
in cash. They also point to the fact there was no balance  enquiry so the person 
making the withdrawal  and that there was a significant amount more than £300 in the 
available balance.  I do think  this argument  is the strongest and most compelling  
made by Tesco to support holding Mr H liable for these transactions. If a fraudster did 
have his card, I might  expect them to find out the available  balance  through a 
balance enquiry and then utilise  as much of the card balance as possible in as short 
of a timeframe as possible as they wouldnt know when the cardholder would cancel 
the card. 
However, the same could be said if Mr H had made the transactions  or allowed 
someone to make  them on his behalf   one may assume he may wish to gain more 
too. And whilst I might  expect a fraudster to have completed  a balance enquiry due to 
the fact they didnt  know the available balance, I would also generally expect the 
account holder  to know their daily withdrawal limit. It does not appear  the person 
withdrawing the money was aware of the withdrawal limit, as evidenced by the 
spending pattern.  I say this because after the first successful transaction,  the next 
transaction failed  as it was too large  and went over the daily withdrawal  limit. The 
person withdrawing  the money then successfully tried to withdraw a smaller amount,  
before the second failed transaction which again went  over the withdrawal limit. This 
leads me to conclude  the pattern of spending was more  likely to have been 
completed by an unknown third party, and not someone who had Mr Hs consent.   
It does seem strange  that there were no further  attempted transactions,  and this 
could imply that Mr H had made  the transactions as you may expect a fraudster to 
have continued  spending until they could no longer make  transactions due to the 
card being cancelled or withdrawal limit being reached. However,  there were a 
number of hours between the last disputed transaction and Mr H speaking to Tesco  
to cancel the card. And I think as Mr H would know he had a significant amount more  
in his available balance he could have maximised his potential gain by conducting 
further spending. I cannot speak  to the intention of a fraudster, but it is possible  that 
they kept the transactions lower in an attempt to avoid detection  for example by 
avoiding retail establishments  in case  the card holder  reported  the card stolen before 
an attempted transaction. The final transaction was a failed transaction so I think  it is 
Ref: DRN18956884possible that the fraudster assumed the card had been reported as lost or stolen and 
this is why they didnt make  any further attempts to use the card. 
Having considered the lack of further  attempted transactions  I do think it is most likely 
that Mr H didnt  make or otherwise authorise these transactions. I say this because  
he would  have  been aware  of the available balance and the fact that the card had not 
yet been reported stolen so if it was him or someone with his consent making the 
transactions they could have continued spending  for longer. 
Tesco have also argued that there was no point of compromise  for his PIN. I agree 
that Mr H couldnt have been observed entering his PIN in the bar or on the day in 
question as he had not used this card to make  any purchases.  When considering  my 
finding that he most likely got a taxi but there  is no evidence of how he paid for it, it 
does appear there could  be a point of compromise  for his PIN in that he may have 
entered it in a fake or disconnected  card device in a taxi. Tesco  have correctly 
pointed out that there is no evidence to support this other  than Mr Hs testimony  that 
this may have happened. However,  it would be hard to imagine what evidence there 
would be of this as entering  his PIN in a fake or disconnected device would not show 
up on Tescos  electronic records. So I have taken a view based on the wider  
circumstances and as I have made a finding  that he most  likely got a taxi, but there is 
no evidence for how he paid for it, I think this is a plausible  point of compromise for 
his PIN. This is a known technique used  by some fraudsters.  
It is not in dispute that he had someone  elses Tesco card that had been lost some  
time before.  Tescos suggestion  that he may have simply  withdrawn the cash and 
forgotten does  not provide any explanation  for how Mr H was in possession of this 
other card. So with this in mind I think  it is unlikely  that Mr H withdrew the cash 
himself and simply forgot about it as it doesnt provide any plausible explanation for 
how he would have  obtained this other card.
Further, the fact he had the card lends credibility  to the idea that he was the victim of 
a card swap fraud as I cannot  see another more plausible  explanation for how he had 
a strangers card in his possession  when  he woke up. Tesco questioned why a 
fraudster would  have  held on to this for over a month, but this seems  the only 
plausible explanation here.  It seems  unlikely that Mr H could have found it on his 
night out of his own accord  as if the other  customer had simply dropped  it 
somewhere it seems likely that someone  else would have picked it up in that month. 
Further, I cannot speak to the intention  of a fraudster, but it appears if they were  
conducting the card swap  fraud  it is somewhat opportunistic so it may be that they 
waited for an intoxicated passenger to hand over another Tesco card,  and Mr H may 
have been the first customer that met those characteristics.
When considering  all of this, I find the most  likely scenario to have occurred is that 
Mr H was the victim of a card swap fraud  and did not authorise these transactions.
In order to put things  right, I agree with the recommendations of our investigator that Tesco 
should refund the disputed transactions, withholding  up to £35 in accordance  with the terms 
and conditions of Mr Hs account and reworking Mr Hs account as if the transactions had 
never happened. I also agree with our investigator that Mr H has suffered distress and 
inconvenience due to the delays in receiving this refund and that £100  should be paid to him 
in recognition of this. 
Ref: DRN18956885my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and ask that Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
to: 
Refund the disputed transactions, withholding  up to £35 in accordance  with the terms 
and conditions of Mr Hs account  
Rework the account as if these transactions had never happened 
Pay Mr H £100 for the distress  and inconvenience he has suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Katherine Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1895688