K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that BUPA Insurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with his health insurance policy. He wants matters put right and compensation.
background
Mr P is the beneficiary of a BUPA group private medical insurance scheme  taken out by his 
employer. He said that BUPA changed his policy  before it was due to renew and gave 60 
days notice. Mr P asked about  it and was told this was lawful, so he asked if he could 
upgrade to the original level of cover; he said that he was told by BUPA  that this was 
possible at extra cost to him. 
Mr P said that hed received information  which was ambiguous and contradictory, and felt 
BUPA was willing to let him walk away. He was unhappy about the handling  of a 
physiotherapy claim he made, as he felt he shouldve received text communications  and 
more explanation about the issue (though it was resolved in the end as the missing 
information was then supplied), and the time taken to deal with another claim about  a 
medical appliance (and lack of information given about that claim).
Mr P complained to BUPA.  It said it would  review the literature about which  he had 
complained, and apologised for not provided  all the information Mr P wanted and not 
apologising earlier. But it confirmed that it was lawful to change the policy terms if sufficient  
notice was given,  which it had been in Mr Ps case. BUPA accepted that it had incorrectly  
rejected a claim for a health screening  and apologised.
Mr P complained to us. The investigators view was that BUPA had agreed to review  its 
literature and explained to Mr P what  was meant  by the unclear  elements, which  she said 
was fair and reasonable. The investigator explained that this service couldnt  ask BUPA to 
create new documents, and it could only send what it already had. She accepted that the 
customer service  couldve  been better  and noted it had incorrectly  rejected a claim (paid a 
few days later), but as feedback had been given, the investigator didnt think more  needed to 
be done. She confirmed  that BUPA could change the policy  with 60 days  notice.
Mr P disagreed. He said BUPA hadnt been  transparent and hadnt put things right.  Mr P 
pointed out that his complaint was about more than one rejected claim; there were three 
claims about which he was unhappy   the health screening claim, the physiotherapy claim 
and the medical  appliance  claim.  BUPA said Mr P had only complained  to it about the health 
screening claim and he hadnt been unable to upgrade his policy,  but Mr P had been told it 
needed to be arranged through his employer in a final response letter.
The investigator explained to Mr P that this service  could only deal with individual complaints 
and wasnt a regulator. She said Mr P only complained to BUPA  about the health screening  
claim and was told how to upgrade the policy. Mr P disagreed and provided evidence that he 
had written to BUPA  his unhappiness about all three  claims.
Ref: DRN12136012my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I note that Mr P wants me to require  BUPA to change its literature and its behaviour, but 
that isnt something  within the powers  of this service. We can only deal with individual  
complaints. 
What is the complaint about?
Mr P says that his complaint was about more than just the literature provided by BUPA, 
customer service  and the handling  of his health  screening claim. The investigator and BUPA 
disagree. Having  reviewed the emails between Mr P and BUPA,  I think  Mr P did express  
dissatisfaction about more than just the literature and the health screening claim; he 
specifically complained about the physiotherapy claim  and the medical appliance claim too 
to BUPA  before contacting this service. 
I couldnt see that BUPA had dealt with these claims through a formal final response letter 
from the evidence  available  to me. I asked BUPA about it and it denied that Mr P had 
complained about his physiotherapy or medical appliance claims being mishandled. BUPA  
said that if Mr P was complaining about  these  points, it should be raised as a new complaint 
direct to it by him.
I can see that Mr P was unhappy  about the handling  of these claims and expressed this from 
his emails to BUPA.  I dont think BUPA has dealt with these complaints as it accepts. But I 
can only deal with complaints brought to this service. Mr P didnt complete a complaint form 
so I have looked at his first letter to us. He listed five points  of complaint  poor customer  
service, substandard  advisor training, confusing wording on literature, declining  and 
mishandling claims in error, and the lack of response to his requests  about the cover for 
medical appliances. The investigator  looked  at the customer service  and literature points and 
one of the claims, but Mr P referred  to claims,  not claim, and attached his emails with 
BUPA that showed he was unhappy about  three claims; he even later within his letter 
specifically mentioned the other  two claims.  And his fifth point was about the medical 
appliance issue, though about information,  not a claim. I understand why the investigator 
didnt deal with the training point as that isnt something this service can dealt with.
But I think Mr P did complain to both BUPA and this service about more than one claim and 
given the evidence he sent with his complaint letter to this service,  Im satisfied  that he 
complained about all three claims. So I think Mr Ps complaint covers the three claims, poor 
customer service  and BUPAs literature. I dont think Mr P was really complaining  about  the 
change to his policy as he understood that it could be changed  with 60 days  notice.
The claims
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Theres no dispute that BUPA incorrectly rejected the health screening claim.  But as BUPA  
put this right,  apart  from considering whether compensation for trouble and upset should be 
paid, there  isnt anything further it needs  to do to put things right.
Ref: DRN12136013The physiotherapy claim and the medical appliance  claim are also part of this complaint. 
BUPA provided evidence  that it needed  more information from Mr P about the physiotherapy 
claim and let him know this about  a week after he made a claim. The day this information 
was received, BUPA paid the claim.  The physiotherapy claim was paid within  10 days of 
receipt, which is fair and reasonable.
The medical appliance claim was also paid by BUPA.  The evidence  suggests that it was 
paid about ten days of Mr Ps claim,  though it was originally declined as medical appliances 
arent part of the cover  offered by the policy. As the appliance claim was paid within the 
usual timescales, I cant say BUPA has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Wording of literature
I appreciate that Mr P was unhappy  about  the wording of the literature BUPA sent him, but I 
can only deal with individual cases,  not global  complaints  about  the policies of an insurer.  Im 
not persuaded that the wording was unclear, but note Mr P has been  given an explanation 
and BUPA has agreed to review the matter in light of Mr Ps feedback. Im not going to make 
any direction in respect of this aspect of Mr Ps complaint.
Customer service
Complaints handling  isnt a regulated activity within the jurisdiction of this service.  But I can, 
and will, look at whether  BUPA has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing  with Mr P. 
When I pointed out to BUPA that I thought Mr P had complained about several issues, it 
accepted that it had overlooked some  of his emails and not added the information to its 
records. I dont think this was fair or reasonable and added to Mr Ps frustration.
I agree  that BUPA incorrectly rejected the health screening claim, which again wasnt  fair or 
reasonable. The customer service given by BUPA wasnt  ideal, but I dont think  that it was so 
poor that compensation for trouble and upset is fair and reasonable.  Its fair and reasonable 
for an insurer to ask for further information about  a claim, and I note that BUPA paid for the 
medical appliance when arguably  it didnt have to do so.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset, but I think  £100  compensation would 
fairly and reasonably compensate Mr P for the non-financial loss caused  by BUPA not 
dealing with all of his complaints and rejecting  the health screening claim. Much  of Mr Ps 
trouble and upset  relates to issues for which I havent found  BUPA  to be at fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  both parties accepted  what  I had said.  In light of this, 
I see no reason to change  my view and confirm my provisional decision as my final decision.
Ref: DRN12136014my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and BUPA Insurance Limited should pay Mr P 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset its failings caused him. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject  my decision 
before 3 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1213601