K821x#15complaint
Mr S complained about the customer service he received from Old Mutual Wealth  Limited in 
respect of his pension.  Specifically, hes unhappy that it wont pay his pension  into a bank 
account in the country where he lives (which Ill refer to as T), and the length of time it took 
to tell him that.
background
Mr S hasnt lived in the UK since 2001.  In August 2018 he asked Old Mutual  for information 
about starting his pension  as he was turning 65 in November that year.  He told Old Mutual 
he lived in T and that he had a bank account there.  Old Mutual told Mr S he had various 
options and recommended  that he get advice from a financial advisor. Various emails then 
went back and forth. In November Mr S asked when and how he could request payment of 
his pension into his T bank account.  In December Old Mutual spoke to Mr S and went  
through the various options. An options pack was emailed to him.
In January 2019 Mr S appointed a financial advisor to help him go through this and other 
pensions he held. In March Mr S told Old Mutual what  he wanted to do and the financial 
advisor sent the relevant  forms  to Old Mutual  a few weeks later.
Various emails then went  back and forth about where the pension  payments needed to be 
paid to. Eventually, the financial advisor asked Old Mutual to confirm exactly  what it needed 
so that Mr Ss pension  could be paid into his T account. Old Mutual said it had an obligation  
to ensure that payments  go into the clients bank account, and that it had made a business  
decision to not allow payments to Mr Ss kind of account as the level of regulation in T was 
not as high as the UK. It was at this point Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service as Old Mutual refused to pay his pension  because he lived in T.
After coming to us Mr S asked Old Mutual  for a list of banks in T it would  deem acceptable. 
Old Mutual said there were none; but said if Mr S opened a UK based  account with one of 
Ts banks it could pay the pension  into that. Mr S opened such an account but Old Mutual 
said it still couldnt pay the money into it  it said the account was a T based account that 
accepted Sterling. The financial advisor told Old Mutual it was a UK account,  and had a UK 
sort number  and account number. Old Mutual asked for further information as it said the 
account number  had 10 digits whereas UK accounts  have  eight.
Mr S asked Old Mutual why it didnt tell him it couldnt pay into his T account earlier  he said 
it was in possession  of all his banking details in January 2019 and it took until June 2019 to 
tell him it wouldnt send his money  to any bank in T. He also felt Old Mutual misled him as it 
had said regulations prevented it from paying into the T account when it was in fact its own 
decision. He also felt the goalposts had moved  because although  he now had a UK 
registered account Old Mutual  still refused to pay the money into it.
Mr S told us he eventually opened  an account with a bank in a neighbouring  country and Old 
Mutual transferred  money to the account in October 2019.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld  
in part. The relevant parts of my provisional  decision are outlined below, and form part of my 
final decision.
Ref: DRN11393572When deciding this type of complaint I firstly look at whether the financial business did 
something wrong or otherwise treated  the consumer unfairly. I often  dont need  to know 
why or how something went  wrong   its usually enough for me to know  that something 
had gone wrong. Once this point has been  decided, I go on to decide  what the business 
needs to do to put matters right.
delays
I didnt think there  was an issue over the fact Old Wealth  wouldnt pay money into any 
bank in T; but I thought it took too long to tell Mr S that.
Old Wealth had a regulatory responsibility  to protect customers  money. How it adhered 
to that responsibility  would be different to other  businesses as its for each business to 
decide what it needs to do. It seemed from what Id seen that the regulations hadnt 
prevented Old Wealth from sending money  to banks in T (as other businesses had sent 
money); it was more  that it chose not to. I thought Old Wealth was entitled to make  that 
decision as part of its day-to-day activities if it felt thats what  was needed to protect 
customers money. The fact other  businesses  might  have thought differently didnt mean 
Old Wealth wasnt entitled to make the decision it did, or that its decision was unfair.
Mr S referred to being  misled by Old Wealth. Old Wealths  decision to not pay money 
into any T bank  was underpinned by its responsibility to keep  its customers money safe.  
So although  I think the message could have been  clearer, I dont think  Old Wealth  was 
necessarily misleading Mr S.
Nevertheless, I thought that if Old Wealth wasnt going to pay money to Mr Ss T account 
it needed to tell him that as early  as possible in order  to have treated him fairly.
Mr S told Old Mutual in August 2018 that he lived in T and that he had a bank account  
there. The email didnt specifically say thats  where Mr S wanted any money  paid, but I 
thought overall  it could be assumed  that was his intention. I thought Mr Ss email  ought 
to have put Old Wealth on notice that there might be a problem with paying the money to 
his account. In any event, the email Mr S sent in November 2018  clearly said that he 
wanted payments  made to his T account. So, Old Wealth ought  to have been aware at 
that point that it wouldnt  be able to fulfil Mr Ss wishes.
Old Wealth didnt  tell Mr S it wouldnt send money to any bank in T until June 2019  so 
ten months after receiving Mr Ss first email and seven  months  after it knew  beyond  
doubt that Mr S wanted his money paying  into his T account. I felt Old Wealth treated 
Mr S unfairly by taking  that long. At the latest it should have told him shortly after 
receiving the email in November. Had it done that, I think  its most likely  Mr S would have 
received his money around seven months earlier that he did.
Having decided that Old Wealth treated Mr S unfairly I went  on to consider what it 
needed to do to put matters right.
business losses
The main losses Mr S referred to were  in respect  of his business.  He said he started a 
business and incurred various costs  (eg renting a workshop, buying the necessary tools 
and machinery) which  hes now lost. He said he relied on payments being  made  by Old 
Ref: DRN11393573Wealth so he could  send  money to his business partner to buy various  other things and 
to check the workshop equipment. While waiting for his money his personal savings had 
run low and the business  stagnated because of a lack of funds.
It wasnt clear  to me whether the losses were Mr Ss personal losses or the businesss 
losses. But either way I thought  there  was a potential  problem that would need to be 
overcome in respect of me formally considering  them as part of this complaint.
I could only consider losses suffered by Mr S as he was the person bringing  the 
complaint to us. So if the losses were the businesss the business  would have to 
complain. But it couldnt do that because it was no longer trading and it wasnt Old 
Wealths customer. If the losses were Mr Ss that caused a problem because I could only 
look at a complaint  when a person was acting for purposes wholly or mainly outside  their 
trade, business or profession.  And I thought it would be difficult to argue that Mr S was 
doing that if he used his own money to fund his business.
I didnt fully consider  those issues  because even if they could be overcome Mr S would 
need to show  that the losses suffered were directly and solely  caused  by Old Wealths 
delay in telling him that it wouldnt make a payment to any T bank.  And I didnt think hed 
done that.
It seemed to me the costs were incurred in setting up and running the business and that 
they would  have been incurred  whether  Mr S used  his savings or the money  paid to him 
by Old Wealth. So if the business later failed,  those losses would have  been  incurred in 
any event. There was an argument that the business wouldnt have failed if Mr S had his 
savings and the money paid by Old Wealth to fund it. But I hadnt seen anything  to show 
that would  have been the case.  It could have been the case that even with the extra 
money available the business still will have stagnated  meaning Mr S would have lost 
his savings and the money  he received from Old Wealth.
It was impossible for Mr S to show precisely what would have happened with the 
business had he received the money from Old Wealth earlier than he did. But I didnt 
think hed sufficiently  shown that the losses he referred to were more likely  than not to 
have been directly and solely due to Old Wealths delays. I also noted  that some  of the 
costs were incurred around the end of 2018 (when Mr S would  unlikely have received the 
money from Old Wealth even if things had run smoothly) and after October  2019 (when 
he received the money from Old Wealth).
So even  if the hurdles  mentioned above regarding  whether we can even  consider this 
issue were overcome,  I didnt  think there  was sufficient ground to make Old Wealth 
compensate Mr S for any of the business losses suffered.
other costs, distress and inconvenience
Much  of what Mr S did in order to get the money paid into an account he would most 
likely have done even  if Old Wealth had told him earlier that it wouldnt pay into his T 
account. For example,  he most likely would still have sought financial advice and he 
most likely would  still have needed to open  an account in the neighbouring  country. So I 
didnt think there  were grounds  to make Old Wealth compensate Mr S for the 
inconvenience or expense he incurred in that respect.
Ref: DRN11393574However, Mr S was put to unnecessary inconvenience and suffered unnecessary  
distress by continually  having  to chase  Old Wealth and not having his money earlier. I 
thought the £250 suggested  by our investigator  sufficiently compensated him for that.
responses to my provisional  decision
Old Wealth agreed to the compensation Id suggested. However, it said that although Mr S 
indicated in November  2018 that he would like payment  made to his T bank  account  it 
wouldnt have told him at that point the payment definitely wasnt possible. This is because 
payments to foreign bank accounts  are made on a risk based  approach  and require referral 
to a specialist  technical team for the final decision to be made. Old Wealth  accepted it could 
have told Mr S earlier that there would likely be an issue with his bank  account,  but it 
wouldnt have been possible  to say for certain that it wouldnt be acceptable without referral 
to the technical team.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional  decision. He said he spent around €8,000 opening a bank
account in the neighbouring country  so that Old Mutual could pay him his pension money. 
He felt the £250 compensation  was an insult given the delay in Old Mutual telling him it 
wouldnt send the money to his T account. He felt it should have told him as soon as it knew  
where he lived.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Old Wealth has said about  it not being  certain initially  that payment couldnt be 
made to Ts bank account. It nevertheless remains that this was likely, and that there was a 
delay in telling Mr S this. Nevertheless, as Old Wealth has agreed  to the compensation I 
dont think its necessary for me to dwell on this further.
The part of the complaint  I provisionally  upheld was in respect  of the delay in Old Wealth 
telling Mr S it wouldnt pay the money  into this T account. I didnt uphold the complaint in 
respect of the decision itself  I concluded  that Old Wealth was entitled  to make that decision 
if it felt it was needed in order  to protect  Mr Ss (and other customers) money. That remains 
my conclusion for the reasons  Ive outlined above.
It therefore follows that the compensation I award can only be in respect of losses,  distress,  
inconvenience etc that Mr S suffered  as a result of the delay, not from the decision itself. I 
note the money  Mr S spent in order to open  the bank account to enable Old Wealth to pay 
him the money.  But, I remain  of the view he most likely would have spent  that even if there 
hadnt been a delay.  Thats because Old Wealths decision  would have  been  the same. And 
whether he did it after one month or eight months, Mr S would still have needed  to open an 
account in the neighbouring country   and therefore incur the costs  that came  with that  for 
Old Wealth to make the payment. So I remain of the view that there arent grounds to make  
Old Wealth compensate Mr S for the inconvenience  or expense he incurred in that respect.
I outlined in my provisional decision that Mr S was nevertheless  put to unnecessary 
inconvenience and suffered unnecessary distress  by continually having to chase Old Wealth 
and not having his money earlier. Although I note Mr Ss comments about  the compensation 
figure, it remains my view that £250 sufficiently compensates  him for the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered. I add here that Mr S doesnt have to accept  my decision if he 
Ref: DRN11393575remains of the view that £250 is insufficient. He can reject my decision  which means it 
wont be binding on either party  and hell be free to pursue  the matter  elsewhere if he 
wishes.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Old Mutual Wealth Limited to pay Mr S £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1139357