K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way their home  insurance claim for water  damage was 
handled by UIA (Insurance) Limited
background
In November 2016 Mrs S contacted UIA to make a claim as a damp patch  had appeared in 
front of her dishwasher. UIA sent out its contractors to investigate, but they decided  that the 
leak needed to be traced and repaired. Mr and Mrs S didnt have trace and access  on their 
policy so they were advised by UIA they would have to get their own plumber to find the leak 
and repair  it. Mrs S contacted UIA in January 2018  to say she had called a couple of 
plumbers who hadnt been able to find the leak. It advised her to speak to an environmental  
consultant or an engineer, or it could send out its contractors, but she would have to pay 
privately. Mrs S denies that UIA gave her that advice  but it is set out in a note dated 
13 January 2017.
Mrs S didnt contact UIA again until early December 2017, when she enquired about trace 
and access. It appears that at that stage her premiums were  reduced but trace and access 
wasnt added.  Then  about a week later Mrs S contacted UIA because they had a serious 
water leak.  Mrs S says that trace  and access was added to the policy  because  she queried 
the premiums in early  December. The notes from UIA would seem  to indicate that it added 
trace and access to the policy after the serious  leak was reported  by Mrs S. In any event the 
trace and access covered this and UIA agreed  to carry out the leak detection. Because  
Mr and Mrs S couldnt continue living there while  the property was so damp, Mrs S arranged 
for them to go into a hotel.  Both are elderly, and Mr S needs care because  of his health. The 
leak was detected and isolated  and UIA set about  agreeing repairs to be done.
At that stage UIA instructed an agency to find alternative accommodation. Mrs S said she 
felt under pressure  to move out of the hotel putting her and Mr S under stress. She 
instructed a solicitor  who corresponded with UIA. UIA said Mrs S had turned down offers of 
accommodation, but she said they were  unsuitable.  And because  they had pet dogs (which 
made it difficult to source accommodation) and the hotel had offered accommodation in an 
apartment/suite, it was eventually  agreed that they would remain there. UIA had initially  said 
Mr and Mrs S would have to pay the difference between  regular  hotel accommodation and 
the apartment. 
Mrs S contacted this service in February 2018.  The repairs started  in April 2018. Our 
investigator reviewed the matter up until April 2018  and recommended  that UIA continue to 
pay for the full cost of the hotel accommodation, plus a disturbance  allowance for the 
duration. He further proposed that UIA cover the cost of Mrs Ss taxi journeys to the hotel 
initially and the journeys  to and from the hotel to check on the property before the repairs  
took place. He also proposed that UIA pay £800 compensation. He didnt recommend that 
UIA pay Mrs Ss solicitors  fees
Mrs S didnt think this was enough.  She felt that UIA should pay her legal fees and that it 
was to blame for their situation, in that it should  have carried out trace  and access  in 2016.
UIA has confirmed it has paid for Mr and Mrs Ss hotel accommodation and paid their 
disturbance allowance during the repairs. It didnt think  it should pay the taxi fares  but would 
consider a contribution. It also felt the compensation proposed  was too high. It pointed  out 
that it had added trace and access to the policy and paid for the pipe to be diverted, neither 
Ref: DRN11622302of which  it was strictly liable for. It pointed out that the delay in carrying out the repairs was 
because of Mrs Ss reluctance to have her personal  effects moved.
I issued a provisional decision, the findings from which  I have set out below. Both UIA and 
Mrs S have responded. I shall deal with their responses in respect of the appropriate findings 
below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
alternative accommodation
In my provisional findings I said:
I think  this case  was difficult to sort out because of Mr and Mrs Ss particular vulnerability.  
And I dont  think that was initially  recognised.  The property, because of the serious amount 
of water coming out over the Christmas  period was clearly uninhabitable. It was fortunate  
that Mrs S was able to be so proactive. She knew the hotel because they had stayed there 
during a previous claim in 2013. And because of Mr Ss health,  he really  needed  to feel 
secure. I know  the agency employed  to source  accommodation tried its best.  But it seems 
obvious particularly  because of the dogs that finding  rental  accommodation was always 
going to be difficult. From the handful of properties  available Mrs S didnt find any of them to 
be suitable.
I dont know if the various apartments found  were  or werent suitable, but it does  appear  that 
the agency didnt know the local area or the quality  of the accommodation. I would also think  
that Mrs S would have  been concerned for her husband not to be subjected to too much 
moving around. Ultimately I dont think that Mr and Mrs Ss concerns were properly taken on 
board by the loss adjusters. I think this caused an undue amount of stress when Mrs S 
wasnt sure if they would have to leave the hotel from week  to week until the issue  was 
sorted out.
Having said that I note that UIA paid for the hotel accommodation until the repairs  were  
finished and paid the disturbance allowance for that period, so I dont need to make any 
directions about  that. I will take its failures  in that respect and the distressed caused into 
account in deciding on the compensation figure.
Mrs S has commented (and sent us a letter from the hotel confirming) that the hotel 
payments were often  late, up to 5 weeks, which caused them  additional distress.  I note that 
and have taken  it into account.
taxi fares
In my provisional decision I said:
I understand that Mrs S made a unilateral  decision to leave with her husband  and go to a 
hotel. She incurred the cost of a taxi doing this as she has no transport herself. She also felt 
she had to visit the property to check  on the appliances and dehumidifier.  She couldnt  travel 
on public  transport from where she was. I think it reasonable  that UIA pay those costs, if 
Ref: DRN11622303Mrs S produces her receipts to it. It should  also add interest from the date she paid for the 
journeys until it reimburses  her.
UIA has said it has never declined to pay the taxi fares.  It asked for receipts to enable  it to 
make payment and has never received any, so it isnt reasonable to expect it to pay interest. 
I take its point; it should only add interest after being provided with any such receipts, and 
from such date as it receives them.
delays
In my provisional decision I said:
In terms  of the delays  in getting the repairs started, I think  there were  misunderstandings  
between Mrs S and UIA as to how their belongings would be moved. I dont think  that UIA is 
entirely to blame  for this  there  were  negotiations  going on with her solicitors  and they took 
several weeks to respond. UIA has pointed out that on visiting the property in early April 
there were still some  of Mr and Mrs Ss personal  effects there. It had to reach an agreement  
where some of the larger items were  covered  up rather  than moved out. So whilst four 
months is a long time to start repairs, I have to bear in mind that UIA had to be sensitive  to 
Mr and Mrs Ss needs and not rush them into decisions .
Mrs S absolutely denies that she left any personal belongings in the house and feels  that the 
delays in getting the repairs done were entirely down to UIAs  incompetence. Whilst I dont 
doubt that I have  to take into account  all of the evidence made available  to me in 
submissions to this service. And Im not suggesting that Mrs S was to blame for the situation. 
I accept that she was keen to get the repairs done as soon as possible. I just think that in 
light of the negotiations with Mr and Mrs Ss solicitors UIAs ability to deal with the claim in a 
timely manner was impacted. 
previous leak
In my provisional decision I said:
Mrs S has pointed out that had UIA dealt with the leak in November 2016 properly they 
wouldnt have found themselves in December 2017 having to deal with a much more  serious 
leak. She doesnt think that trace and access was explained to her properly and that it 
should have been offered to her in 2016 for the first leak.
I understand Mrs Ss point  and note that UIA now does provide trace  and access as 
standard on new policies. I note that Mrs S had a number of calls with UIA in 2016.  I have 
only seen the claim  handling notes but it appears that it was left that Mrs S would arrange 
her own trace and access. UIA did mention  that it could offer its contractors services, but 
she would  have to pay privately.
I do think that UIA, having sent out contractors and then realising Mr and Mrs Ss situation,  
should have considered much earlier adding trace and access  to the policy.  This is 
especially so as it said it was doing this as they had been loyal customers for over 15 years.  
I dont have enough information about what UIA tells its customers on renewal of policies, so 
I cant say whether it should have added trace and access as a matter  of course. And I dont 
know if new policies would be more  expensive because  of that.
Ref: DRN11622304I take account of the fact that I am looking at this with hindsight   so far as UIA knew Mrs S 
was arranging to have the leak dealt  with. And she didnt contact them  for over 11 months. 
Also it has paid for the leaking  pipework to be diverted and repaired which wouldnt normally  
be covered. But because I do think UIA should have offered trace and access earlier  or at 
least been more  proactive  in dealing with the first leak, I will take this into account in deciding  
the amount of compensation to be paid.
UIA has pointed out that trace and access is not part of the insured policy,  and never has 
been. And none of its other  customers with this type of policy  have trace and access  and 
therefore under the principle of treating customers fairly it doesnt see how it can be said that 
it should have  added  trace and access sooner. By December 2017 the leak was more 
serious and as most insurance companies  would have declined  the claim at this stage as a 
gradually operating  event  and not have  offered  to pay for the leak to be traced without the 
cover.
Mrs S says she did not contact UIA for many months because  the two plumbers, two 
builders and surveyor could not find the leak, and, therefore, could not supply a report that 
UIA had said it needed before it could do anything. 
On the principle of treating customers fairly, it would have been clear to UIA from its visit in 
late 2016 that Mr and Mrs S were  vulnerable  customers. They  had also had a policy  with it 
for quite  a while. Whist their particular  policy didnt have  trace and access, the fact is that 
UIA does  offer that cover  in other versions  of its household policies and in my view should 
reasonably have added the cover to Mr and Mrs Ss policy at the time of the first leak being 
reported. Leaks  can be difficult  to detect and whilst it may not be standard  most household 
policies do offer trace and access cover. I take note of the fact that it did deal with the leak in 
December 2017  rather than deny cover because  Mr and Mrs S hadnt  done anything about  it 
in the interim. As Mrs S points out that was not for want  of trying. 
compensation
In my provisional decision I said:
This was a claim that was always going  to cause significant disruption to Mr and Mrs S. And 
I couldnt expect  UIA to pay for the normal disruption caused by such  a claim.  I am also only 
considering matters up until early April 2018, as any issues after that are part of a separate  
complaint. I understand that Mr and Mrs S had issues  concerning the subsequent repairs  
and removals; they will be looked  at in a separate complaint.
I have taken into account Mr and Mrs Ss health issues as set out in reports Mrs S sent to 
us. But bearing  in mind  our awards we make  in these sorts of cases I think that £800 
compensation is fair and reasonable, even taking into account  issues with the previous leak .
UIA hasnt  made any particular comment on the amount, but does point out that it has gone  
over and above the policy limits in dealing with the claim. 
I note that, but my view as to the amount  of compensation remains  the same.
legal costs/ medical report fees
In my provisional decision I said:
Ref: DRN11622305Mrs S has incurred total legal costs of £1,010.40 including VAT. Our investigator  didnt  think  
making UIA reimburse this was justified as, in his view, the solicitors  made no material 
difference to the claim. I also bear in mind  that we dont usually award  legal costs.  But I think 
in this case, again bearing in mind  Mr and Mrs Ss situation that they reasonably  needed 
legal assistance  and I think UIA fairly  needs to reimburse this cost.
UIA has said it loss adjusters strenuously deny the allegation that they bullied Mr and Mrs S. 
And I dont  have sufficient  evidence to say its most likely that they did. But, Mrs S consulted  
solicitors because she and Mr S couldnt live in the property because  it was so damp.  And 
despite the fact that she was clearly quite  capable, I think that she needed urgent help to 
sort out the accommodation. It seems  to me that it was the solicitors actions which resulted 
in UIA agreeing  to pay for the accommodation  for the duration of the repairs. To that extent 
they did make a difference to the claim. Therefore,  I think UIA should  reimburse  the legal 
costs, adding interest from the date the costs  were paid until settlement is made. I believe 
Mrs S paid £842.40 on 9 May 2018. She will need  to show evidence,  ideally in response to 
this provisional decision  but if not, to UIA of when she paid the smaller bill of £168.
Similarly Mrs S says she has incurred costs in obtaining medical  reports. If she can produce 
evidence of those  costs, and as those  reports influenced my decision on compensation, I will 
make an award that UIA pay those on similar  terms.
UIA says that with regard to the legal costs, it doesnt feel that it was due to the solicitors 
involvement that it agreed the costs of the hotel. It only agreed this after Mr and Mrs S came  
to this service. In respect  of medical reports, it didnt ask for these and had never denied 
Mr and Mrs Ss medical conditions, so doesnt think it should pay for these.
Mrs S has pointed  out that she has incurred laundry cists so would  like to include those.
With regard to the hotel,  I think  UIA had made up its mind to pay for this before Mrs S 
contacted us, and I think  that that is likely to be because of their solicitor. I appreciate that it 
would be unusual to get a solicitor  involved (or indeed this service)  so early on in a claim, but 
I think Mr and Mrs S needed an advocate to speak for them. There is a note on the business 
file which  I think confirms  this, two weeks before Mrs S contacted us, which  says:  Spoke to 
[loss adjuster] he feels it may be we have no alternative but to let her stay in hotel the 
longer we take trying to find her somewhere  else the costs are going up. So I still think  UIA 
should pay the legal costs  as Ive noted.
With regard to the medical  reports,  if Mrs S has incurred  a cost in obtaining them  she should 
be reimbursed. In order to decide the level of compensation  it would be normal  if medical  
conditions are to be taken into account  for a report or letter  to be supplied. So again if Mrs S 
can produce evidence  of their cost UIA should  pay them.
With regard to laundry,  I note Mr and Mrs S were paid a disturbance allowance whilst they 
were in the hotel,  and that would normally include such expenses. If Mrs S has incurred 
additional expenses  she should put those to UIA.
Ref: DRN11622306overall
My provisional findings remain the same so now form part of this final decision. With regard 
to any costs incurred  concerning the contents,  and anything that has arisen since April 2018, 
I note that Mr and Mrs S have raised  a new complaint  which is currently being investigated, 
so wont be dealt with those issues in this decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require UIA (Insurance)  Limited to pay:
Mrs Ss taxi fares for travelling to the hotel and thereafter pay those fares for her 
travelling between  the hotel and their home  before April 2018 and add simple 
interest* at the rate of 8% from the date the receipts  are produced  until settlement is 
made. This is to be paid if Mrs S produces  evidence to UIA (Insurance) Limited  of her 
payment of those  costs.
Mrs Ss legal costs of £1,010.40 and add simple  interest*  at the rate of 8% from the 
date the costs that make up this sum were paid until payment. This is subject to 
Mrs S providing proof the £168  part of those costs has been  paid. If that part hasnt 
been paid or no proof of payment is sent to UIA by Mrs S, then no interest on that 
part of the costs shall be payable.
Any costs Mrs S paid for the two medical  reports plus simple interest* at the rate of 
8% from the date evidence of that cost is produced until payment. This is to be paid if 
Mrs S produces evidence to UIA (Insurance) Limited that she has paid those costs.
Compensation of £800 to Mr and Mrs S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1162230