K822xcomplaint
Mrs G complains about the service she received when she contacted  Aviva  Insurance  
Limited for assistance  under  her travel insurance policy.
My references to Aviva include its agents, and in particular the assistance company it uses 
for emergency assistance for its customers.
background 
Mrs G has travel insurance  linked to her bank  account. The insurer for the policy is Aviva.  In 
November 2018  Mrs G unfortunately  fell ill while on an extended  long haul trip. She 
contacted Aviva for assistance. 
Mrs G visited  a number of doctors  and hospitals.  She had some  exploratory procedures. She 
then had surgery on 20 December 2018.  Her surgeon said shed need  further  surgery  after 
that, which was brought forward to 7 January 2019.  Aviva later agreed  to refund Mrs G for 
the private medical costs shed incurred and did this in March  2019. 
Mrs Gs complaint concerns Avivas  delay in confirming whether it would medically cover her 
and the service she received. She contacted  both this service and Avivas  chief  executives 
office while she was away.  
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint. He has exchanged  very detailed correspondence 
with Mrs G about her concerns. In summary, he upheld her complaint  in part. He said the 
delay in Aviva confirming cover on the case was due to a lack of medical information to 
confirm a diagnosis  and whether the treatment was emergency treatment under the policy.  
He found there had been some poor service by Aviva  and recommended it pay £200 for 
Mrs Gs distress and inconvenience. Aviva agreed  to this.
Ive listened to Mrs Gs call with our adjudicator when she discussed  whether to have an 
ombudsman review of her complaint. Shes made  a few points but in summary she said that 
Aviva hasnt given us accurate information about her case. She gave some examples of the 
information she thought was inaccurate.  Ultimately she says Aviva  gave her a very poor 
service. Shes concerned  that someone  else could have the same experience.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has also made  a complaint about the bank  which sold her the travel insurance policy 
as part of a packaged bank account.  I will issue a decision on that complaint separately. So 
my findings  in this decision are confined to Aviva.
Im sorry  to hear about  Mrs Gs experience  while she was on her trip. She was unwell and 
experienced both pain and unpleasant  symptoms  over an extended period of time. I hope  
shes now fully recovered. 
Having reviewed this case I find I agree with our adjudicators findings for broadly the same 
reasons. As Mrs G has already exchanged very detailed correspondence  with the 
Ref: DRN13390422adjudicator I dont intend to deal with all the points  in the same  level of detail in this decision. 
Rather I will focus on what I consider  to be the main issues. 
In common with most travel insurance policies Mrs G was required to contact Aviva  before  
incurring medical  expenses, where she wanted Aviva to cover  those costs. The reason for 
this is that insurance  companies need to check that a particular medical  condition  is covered 
under the policy  and that emergency treatment is required. 
The difficulty  in this case is that Mrs G received  medical advice and treatment from a number 
of different  doctors  but their reports didnt indicate that she needed emergency surgery. She 
had many stones in her gallbladder but the surgeon  who eventually operated didnt think this 
was the cause of her symptoms. When he operated he found stones in her bile duct,  which 
then needed removing in a second  surgery. He hadnt suggested the removal of the 
gallbladder was emergency treatment. In line with the policy terms Aviva was entitled to 
consider whether Mrs G was fit to fly home. Her surgeon said she wasnt and ultimately 
Aviva did pay for her medical treatment. I think this was reasonable. 
Mrs G says that she offered to fly home  early  on in the process, but even so Aviva would 
want to see medical reports to assess whether she could safely fly. Its likely  shed also have 
needed medical clearance  by the airline  where  she was both in pain and experiencing 
symptoms. 
I think Aviva  did go to some lengths to obtain  the medical reports  from the various doctors. 
Mrs G saw doctors privately where shed paid for treatment. Before agreeing  to medically 
cover her Aviva was entitled to know whether the treatment was covered under the policy.  
And although public health  facilities were available in the country Mrs G had visited it seems 
her condition wasnt deemed an emergency.  
I dont underestimate  Mrs Gs distress. She knew she was unwell and in pain. In many  travel 
insurance cases Ive seen there is a quick diagnosis and the issue is then whether the case 
is covered, with GP checks sometimes being necessary as here. But in this case the medical  
information Aviva was being  given didnt show a medical emergency and there was some 
conflicting medical advice. It did take time for Aviva to assess the claim when it had all the 
medical information and it could have  confirmed cover slightly earlier than it did as our 
adjudicator has identified. But I think its decision to cover all the private health treatment 
Mrs G received was a fair and pragmatic one. It then paid the claim without undue delay. 
I agree  with our adjudicators assessment of Avivas  service. There was a delay in a planned 
call to Mrs G. Shes said it was a longer wait than the time indicated  by Aviva. Our 
adjudicator noted  Avivas  email about the planned  call went to her husband.  He identified 
this as poor service.  There  were  also some communication issues when she didnt feel each 
area of the emergency assistance  service  was aware of her position.  
I know Mrs G thinks  that Aviva has given this service inaccurate information but its file 
incudes its full assistance file notes,  which are date and time stamped. 
Mrs G was particularly concerned about the payment of a medical bill to a Dr A. Avivas 
records show that it gave  his office Avivas  assistance companys credit  card details on 
4 December 2018. Aviva says that Dr A then needed to use that credit  card number to debit 
the assistance companys account  with the amount he was due for the report  he gave Aviva 
about Mrs Gs medical condition. Aviva did respond to Mrs G on this point in its email  of 
26 February 2019. Aviva said that it would receive  an invoice for the amount only after the 
Ref: DRN13390423account was debited,  and until that had happened  it couldnt confirm that Dr A had been 
paid.
If Dr A hasnt made the debit to the credit  card (or was unable  to do so) then he can contact 
Aviva about  that, as it had agreed to make the payment. 
Mrs Gs strength of feeling  in this case is clear and it has been  a distressing time for her. But 
overall I consider  that £200 for distress and inconvenience  is fair and reasonable 
compensation for Avivas shortcomings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint but only in part. I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs G £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience  as it has 
already agreed  to do. 
Aviva must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mrs G 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs G a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1339042