K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains Nationwide Building Society will not refund  a disputed transaction.
background
Mr N complained to Nationwide about  some  transaction on his account which he said he did 
not make.  He  reported that he had lost his wallet earlier in the day and that the card for his 
account was in the wallet.
This happened whilst Mr N was abroad  living  alone, he said, in a flat belonging to his 
family.
Nationwide did not uphold his complaint.  It explained that one successful transaction had 
been made but four others also attempted but declined.  They were declined because  of 
insufficient funds  in the account.  However, all transactions had been carried out using not 
only Mr Ns genuine card  but his PIN also. On that basis, without any evidence  of how 
Mr Ns PIN had been compromised, it was only him liable for the transaction.
Mr N then came to this service.  He told our investigator that he had made a transaction  at 
an ATM  earlier in the day  before he had lost his wallet. He recalls there being some  people 
behind him at the ATM but he wasnt specific as to whether these  people  were waiting in the 
queue or were just standing behind him.
He says these  people then followed him onto a bus as he made his way to some shops and 
then onto work.  When he realised his wallet was missing later in the day, he contacted 
Nationwide.
Our investigator did not think he could ask Nationwide to do anymore, so Mr N asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I will not 
be asking Nationwide  to refund this money  to Mr N.
My role is to decide whether Nationwide has done anything wrong in holding Mr N liable for 
these transactions.   I dont think it has as there  is nothing to suggest that Mr Ns PIN was 
compromised.  I know Mr N gives an account  of people behind  him at the ATM but Im afraid 
I dont think its likely  that they observed him enter his PIN, followed him for some time and 
then were able to remove his wallet from his person. I dont find that to be a credible 
account.
Seeing as the question  of the PIN compromise  is central to this complaint  because without 
it, fraudsters would not have been  able to carry out these  transactions  I think  its more 
likely that Mr N either made or authorised these payments.
For that reason,  I do not think Nationwide has been unfair or unreasonable in holding Mr N 
liable.
Ref: DRN14506682my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1450668