K820x#14complaint
Miss K has complained  about  Southern Rock Insurance Companys decision to reject a 
claim she made under her car insurance policy.
background
Miss K renewed her car insurance policy through a broker in November 2017. In June 2018 
she was involved in an incident with another vehicle. She told Southern Rock she was 
driving to work when  the incident happened. 
Southern Rock said as her policy  didnt  provide cover for commuting, shed breached the 
terms of the insurance  contract and so it wouldnt meet the costs of the claim. It said it would 
pursue Miss K for the costs of any third party claim it dealt with under the terms of the Road 
Traffic Act. Southern Rock didnt deal with the repairs  to Miss Ks car. 
Miss K asked us to look at her complaint. The adjudicator listened to a call recording 
between the broker  and Miss K at renewal. Miss K told the broker that shed changed job. 
The adjudicator felt the broker should have checked with Miss K if the change  meant  shed 
use her car for commuting. As the broker didnt do this, the adjudicator recommended  
Miss Ks complaint should be upheld. She thought Southern Rock  should deal with the claim 
under the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy. 
Southern Rock didnt agree. It said the matter doesnt relate to the questions asked at 
inception or renewal. Its based on the fact that just before the incident  Miss K was 
commuting which wasnt permitted under her Certificate of Insurance.  So Southern Rock 
was entitled to refuse indemnity on the claim. 
In March 2020 an investigator  issued a second  view.  She said Southern  Rock  had relied  on 
the information Miss K gave to the broker at renewal. As she didnt change the use, it had 
renewed her policy on the existing  terms which  excluded commuting. 
Miss K didnt agree. She says the view is based on the assumption  she had access to her 
renewal documents.  Miss K said she didnt.  So she wasnt aware that her cover hadnt been 
changed to include  commuting. When she said shed  changed  employment,  she assumed 
the broker would change the use of her car. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
My decision  relates to the actions of the insurer, Southern Rock and not the broker. 
However, I need to refer to information  provided  by the broker  in order to make  my findings 
about Southern Rock.  
As the policy was sold by a broker, the broker spoke  to Miss K at renewal.  Miss Ks policy  
was set up to exclude  commuting before renewal. The broker asked Miss K if anything had 
changed. Miss K told the broker shed changed occupation. 
Ref: DRN11620052The broker  updated  Miss Ks occupation  and then asked if all other details under the policy  
were still correct. Miss K said yes. 
Miss K said she assumed the broker would change  the use of her car because shed 
changed occupation. But I dont think thats a reasonable assumption to make. Presumably 
Miss K didnt commute by car to her previous job. So it wouldnt have been right for the 
broker to assume that because Miss K had changed  job, she would now need to use her car 
to commute. This was something only Miss K could know had changed.  Miss K confirmed 
the other details were  correct. As Miss Ks policy before renewal was set up to exclude  
commuting, her policy was renewed  with Southern  Rock on this basis.  
Miss K says she couldnt  check  her policy documents at renewal as she didnt have access 
to them  online.  She said she requested this several  times from the broker  who arranged the 
policy. But she didnt receive a paper copy of the documents until after she called to report 
the incident. 
As the broker is responsible for issuing Miss Ks policy documents,  I cant make a finding  
about that in my decision against Southern Rock. 
I understand Miss K will be disappointed with my decision. But based on the information 
Miss K gave at renewal,  I think Southern Rocks decision not to deal with the claim and 
cancel her policy was reasonable. Miss K didnt say shed changed the use of her car when 
she changed employment. So Miss K wasnt insured at the time of the incident as she was 
commuting when it happened.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 May 2020
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1162005