K821x#15complaint
The estate  of the late Mr G is unhappy  that West Bromwich Building  Society  (WBBS) 
hasnt refunded money after the late Mr G was the victim  of a scam. It thinks  WBBS didnt do 
enough to protect  Mr G from the scam.
For ease of reading Ill refer to the estate of Mr G as E throughout this decision.
background
The late Mr G had an account  with WBBS.  In April 2018 he went  to a WBBS  branch to
arrange a cheque for £14,400 made payable to a third party. Mr Gs passbook  records the
date of this withdrawal as 10 April 2018. Mr G went to a WBBS branch again a few weeks
later to arrange a further cheque, this time for £64,000, payable  to another  third party  which
Ill call C. Mr Gs passbook records the date of this withdrawal as 3 May 2018.
E says, in summary, that:
Mr G lived at his house since birth. He was very close to his two sisters. His eldest sister 
died in 2013 and he never fully recovered. His remaining  sister  died in 2017 and he 
became very withdrawn.  He rarely  left the house,  other than to buy food, pay bills and 
generally deal with his affairs. And he never  ventured  out of his home town. He also did 
not deal easily  with change. He didnt have a computer or internet access. He never 
answered the phone and would only return a call if he recognised the number.  He never 
let anyone  in the house and was a complete creature of habit. He would pay his rent at 
the same time and place without fail every  week, a trait that would be repeated  in all his 
other dealings. It was this level of routine  that led the council officer  to call at his home 
when his rent wasnt paid and to ultimately  call the police, who found him dead in the 
property.
It found notes and scribblings made by Mr G. These notes included the monetary 
amounts later made  into cheques with an investment  company name alongside. The 
notes show Mr G thought the cheques were  for an investment in gold bullion. It assumes 
the £14,400 was sold to Mr G as some sort of deposit, and the £64,000 was the 
remainder needed  for the investment.
Mr G visited the WBBS branch on almost a weekly basis.  It was completely out of the 
ordinary and out of character for him to withdraw  such amounts. This should have been 
recognised by WBBS.  Mr G was also almost 70 years old and clearly  vulnerable:  his 
physical appearance had changed  he was more unkempt  and had lost weight  recently. 
He didnt have  any paperwork and it believes it would only have taken one or two simple  
questions from WBBS for it to have become apparent that he was being  scammed.
It questions whether  Mr G later realised  he had been the victim of a scam and whether 
this led to his premature death.
WBBS didnt  accept Es complaint.  So E brought the matter here. An investigator here 
looked into the case and recommended that the complaint be upheld and that WBBS pay E 
£78,400 (the total of the two cheque withdrawals)  less any amount already recovered, plus 
interest calculated at 8% simple per year. WBBS didnt agree.
Ref: DRN18125462WBBS says, in summary,  that:
It has robust policies and procedures in place. Staff are trained to ask the right questions 
and spot suspicious  activity. When a customer in branch  makes a significant withdrawal, 
staff always make  conversation to try to establish the reasons for the withdrawal.
Mr G was well known to branch staff.  Someones age doesnt necessarily make them 
vulnerable, and it would only have been  aware  hed lost his siblings if hed said.  Branch   
staff its interviewed as part of its investigation have said there was no change in Mr Gs 
behaviour or appearance that alerted them  to any issue  of vulnerability. Nevertheless, on 
requesting the initial  cheque  for £14,400,  staff asked relevant  questions.  The customer 
service adviser at branch knew Mr G from previous visits and thinks  Mr G said the 
cheque was for a family member. He appeared to be his normal self and the transaction  
was carried out.
It provides only mortgage  and savings accounts.  Its therefore  not uncommon  for 
customers to save  for long periods of time and then withdraw large  sums of money. Its 
also not uncommon for customers to move their funds to other providers or investment 
companies to gain a better return on their savings. Therefore, Mr G withdrawing  a large 
sum of money  via cheque would not raise any concerns.
There is only so much  it can ask, and the investigator has made a lot of assumptions.  It 
cant force a customer  to give it information  if they dont want to. And if a customer does 
not tell it of a problem  but everything appears  in order,  then it cannot refuse a customer 
their funds.  It would  only invoke the Banking Protocol  if the customer  seemed confused,  
upset, not their normal self (if known to staff) or vulnerable giving it concern for the 
transaction. Its customers complain that they do not like the fact that it asks questions  
this is a very fine line it has to deal with. And if it invoked  the Banking Protocol every time 
a customer made a withdrawal that was out of character but appeared not to be as a 
result of vulnerability, then it believes it would be criticised by the authorities and risk 
losing their confidence.
Staff also questioned Mr G about  the cheque withdrawal for £64,000  and he said it was 
for an investment. Again,  he appeared to be of sound mind and the transaction was 
carried out. However, when staff at branch investigated  further it found that Mr G had 
been in branch  the day before attempting to withdraw £12,000  in cash,  which he said was 
for a holiday. Due to this being a large cash withdrawal, it had not allowed him to 
withdraw these funds and had explained  its cash withdrawal  limits and that the funds  
would have  to be ordered in advance. Its branch staff subsequently  referred  to its 
Financial Crime  Team  to investigate further.  Based on the details it had from Mr G in 
relation to the company,  it established  that C was a large  regulated investment company, 
so this caused no concern.
E has made very valid points about  the failures on the part of the bank that received the 
£64,000 cheque.
As the investigator  and WBBS were unable to agree,  Es complaint about WBBS was 
passed to me for a decision. 
I sent E and WBBS my provisional decision on 14 April 2020  explaining why I was intending 
to uphold Es complaint and the direction  I was intending to make. I said that before I made 
Ref: DRN18125463my final decision, Id look at anything else the parties wanted to give me, so long as I got it 
before 14 May 2020.
There is no need for me to set out in detail here everything the parties have said in response 
to my provisional decision  but I have set out in summary the responses I have received 
below.
WBBS has responded  to my provisional decision and says, in summary, that:
Its difficult to understand how Mr G could have been the victim of fraud if he wouldnt 
answer the telephone, had no computer or internet  access, and never  ventured  out of his 
home town. Also, its staff at the relevant branch had regular contact with Mr G, potentially  
more so than his family, and its very difficult to reconcile the observations  made by E 
compared with those of its branch staff who knew Mr G well and saw and spoke with him 
on a weekly basis.  As they came  to know him well, they recall there was no difference in 
his behaviour or appearance during both transactions.  However,  it agrees that both 
cheque requests should have been  recognised as unusual  and they were.  
The first cheque  request  prompted  questions which  resulted  in the member of staff being 
satisfied that the request was reasonable and for a family member.  The member  of staff 
recalls asking  Mr G questions  but due to the passage  of time cant recall  the conversation  
verbatim. However,  the Banking  Protocol Prompt Card used by its customer facing 
branch staff shows  the questions its staff would ask; staff are trained on this, the card is 
readily on sight for them (but not customers)  and its process is for all its staff to ask all 
questions from this card if they think the transaction is unusual. The staff member recalls  
having a conversation  with Mr G and the outcome  was they were satisfied that the 
cheque was for a family member. Its obliged to record where there is a suspicion but 
after speaking to Mr G that wasnt the case here, so no record  was made. 
The second cheque  request resulted  in a referral to its Financial Crime Manager. There 
was nothing  to indicate the two withdrawals were  connected and its Financial Crime 
Manager accepted  the first withdrawal for £14,400 was for a family member.  The second  
cheque withdrawal  of £64,000 was assessed  and the Financial Crime Manager believed 
this was the movement of inheritance  funds  that Mr G had deposited with it in May 2018  
some £95,000. They  believed he was investing  in a genuine company  C is registered at 
Companies House  and this is one of the checks the Financial  Crime  Team would have 
undertaken. The Financial Crime Manager no longer works there, but she may have  
believed the cheque payee  C was part of a large  and well-known investment company, 
which would  fit the comment they made about a large  regulated investment company. 
Because of this, and the prior inheritance deposit,  they believed that Mr G may have been  
investing his funds elsewhere  to get a better  return and there was nothing  to suggest it 
was a suspicious  activity.
Theres been  no mention of the receiving  banks failure to alert it once it identified the 
account into which the initial cheque of £14,400  was deposited was fraudulent.  If the 
receiving bank  had told it that one of its cheques had been  paid into an account where 
fraud had been identified, it would have been able to contact  Mr G and potentially reclaim  
more funds  than it did. And the second transaction,  in this case,  may never have taken 
place. 
Ref: DRN18125464E has also responded to my provisional  decision, attaching some questions and warnings 
around scams. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached materially the same  conclusions for the same reasons as in 
my provisional decision. Ive set out my reasoning again below, including  some further 
comment where appropriate, to address WBBSs response to my provisional decision.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account  relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes  of practice; and, where appropriate, what  I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
And I have  taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises  that a bank may be liable to its customer  if it makes a payment  in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds (although  not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known  as the Quincecare duty).
Regulated firms  like WBBS are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence  (FCA Principle for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to:
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something also 
recognised by the FCA in recent  years  and by the British Bankers Associations  
February 2016 report improving  outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify  and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam  
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes  October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result  of fraud or financial abuse   
Code of Practice , which  a number of banks and trade  associations  were involved in 
the development  of); and
in relation to branch  transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
Ref: DRN18125465This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where 
a bank should, in my opinion, fairly  and reasonably  take additional  steps, or make  
additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to make the 
payment altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether WBBS acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealing with 
the Mr G in respect of cheque withdrawals of £14,400 on 10 April 2018  and £64,000  on 
3 May 2018.
The Banking Protocol
The Banking Protocol  is a multi-agency initiative between the Police, financial sector
organisations (including banks, building societies and the post office)  and Trading Standards
aimed at identifying customers who are in the process of being defrauded and implementing
safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further loss of funds. It
has been fully in force since March 2018.
In broad terms, according to UK Finances  toolkit, financial businesses commit to:
Look out for any unusual or out of character withdrawals and to implement the 
Banking Protocol procedure when such transactions are identified.
Discreetly question  the customer about  the withdrawal or transaction and their 
reasons for making it, keeping in mind that the customer may have been told they are 
helping to catch a corrupt bank employee and may have  been  given a cover story  to 
tell if asked  about the transaction.
Consider the responses against  what they expect normal  activity  on the individuals  
account. If they are concerned or suspicious that the customer  may be the victim  of 
fraud, they should  notify a senior member of staff, who should take the customer  to a 
quiet area and ask further questions to establish more details.
If the senior  colleague  believes the customer is the victim  of fraud, either  as a result 
of the answers provided or through their general  behaviour, they should call the 
Police immediately  who will attend  the branch and speak to the customer.
The Banking Protocol  procedures are not limited to elderly or vulnerable  customers, or
certain fraud  types, and bank staff are encouraged to contact the Police  even if they are not
sure. For example,  UK Finances Bank Colleague FAQs  say:
Does it only relate to elderly  or vulnerable customers?
No, whilst crime data analysis and demographics indicate that the 70 and over age group
are targeted more  than other age groups for courier & rogue trader  frauds, anyone can be
the victim of fraud and we should strive  to protect  all customers from financial harm.
Ref: DRN18125466Does the Banking Protocol only relate to courier or rogue trader  offences?
No. Customers may have been defrauded in several  ways.  Courier fraud, and rogue trader
offences are two of the most common offences in which suspects ask the victims to attend
banks to make withdrawals or transfers.  However, customers  may have been the victim  of
another fraud, such as romance fraud or investment fraud. The Banking Protocol process
should be followed for any transaction which you feel is unusual as you may prevent your
customer from becoming a victim of fraud.
Im a bank  colleague  what  should  I look out for?
When a customer requests a cash withdrawal  or transfer, firstly consider your internal
training procedures.
In the circumstances presented does the request  appear to be out of character. Is the
request for a significant  amount? Does the account history show  any similar withdrawals or 
transfers recently?  Has the customer provided  an explanation for the withdrawal?  Are they 
elderly, vulnerable,  upset  or nervous?  Is the customer on the phone  whilst  making  the 
request (in some cases suspects stay on the phone to victims whilst they are conducting 
transactions)? Bear in mind that as part of the fraud the customer  may have  been  convinced,
they are helping to catch corrupt bank staff and given a story  to tell you.
Im a bank  colleague  what  are my responsibilities?
If you identify a customer requesting a cash withdrawal  or transfer you think  is unusual,
commence the Banking  Protocol  procedure. Ask the customer questions about the
transaction. Consider  the Banking  Protocol  questions  on the prompt  card. If you have any
concerns raise the issue with a senior colleague.
I think a customer may be a victim but Im not sure. Should I still follow the Banking 
Protocol?
Yes. If you have questioned the customer and are still not sure, the police  urge you to still
call them. It is not possible to answer  every what if so if you are suspicious or concerned
but are not completely sure then still report this following the Banking Protocol. You might
prevent a customer becoming the victim  of a crime.
Did WBBS  act fairly and reasonably in Mr Gs case?
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter  of good practice WBBS should have been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
I appreciate that WBBS says its not uncommon for its customers  to save for long periods  of 
time and then withdraw or move  large sums of money; and that it believes it would be 
criticised by the authorities  and risk losing their confidence if it invoked  the Banking  Protocol 
every time a customer made a withdrawal that was out of character.  However, Mr Gs 
passbooks show that he made regular cash withdrawals for £300  and £500.  The cheque  
withdrawals for £14,400 and £64,000  were very clearly unusual  and out of character for him. 
Bearing this in mind, Im not persuaded I need to make a finding on whether Mr G was 
vulnerable or in vulnerable circumstances  and whether WBBS should have known this  Im 
satisfied WBBS should have recognised  the cheque requests as unusual  and out of 
character irrespective of whether  or not it thought  Mr G was in vulnerable circumstances at 
the time.
While I accept there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and 
ensuring minimal disruption  to legitimate payments, I do not think  that means  WBBS acted 
Ref: DRN18125467fairly and reasonably in this case. I also do not think that given the circumstances in this 
case as a whole  including the environment created by the increase in sophisticated fraud
and scams  in recent years  that WBBS ought not to have done more  simply because its 
customers do from time-to-time instruct legitimate payments that are unusual  compared to 
their usual account activity and significant in terms of value.
Considering all of this, I am satisfied that WBBS ought to have recognised that Mr G could 
be at risk of financial harm and taken  steps to look into what was going  on.
Im mindful of the challenges  faced by branch  staff in the moment, when confronted  with 
such situations, with only limited information  on which  to make decisions. And from the 
information Ive seen I do think that WBBS may very well have asked Mr G what  the cheque 
for £14,400 was for and its possible Mr G said it was for a family  member; and WBBS asked 
Mr G what the cheque  for £64,000 was for and Mr G said it was for an investment.
However, its important to highlight that the Banking Protocol recognises that banks will often  
have to ask more detailed and specific questions  to understand  whether a customer might 
be a victim of fraud. And it recognises  that customers are often convinced  by the fraudsters 
story and so ultimately  it may be necessary to ask more detailed questions  or even escalate 
the matter to the police  before a customer realises they are a victim of fraud.
The Banking Protocol  Prompt Card WBBS has sent us, which it says was in use at the time,
says:
Is the withdrawal or transaction unusual for this customer? [and if the answer is yes then]
Please ask the customer further questions, for example:
What is the money going to be used  for?
Who are you giving the money to?
Was this withdrawal  or transaction  planned or unexpected?
Have you had a call or been  approached,  claiming you have been a victim of fraud  or 
offered an investment?
Have you been  contacted by someone claiming  they are Police,  bank staff or a 
trader?
Im satisfied, therefore that WBBS  should have recognised that simply asking what  the 
cheques were for wasnt enough to understand whether Mr G might  be about to become a 
victim of fraud. To be clear, Im not suggesting that Mr G should have been subject to an 
interrogation  merely  in the circumstances a basic level of questioning designed to get into 
sufficient detail to disturb  or unearth a potential fraud.
I understand that WBBS  argues that it did ask Mr G questions   it has pointed  to the Banking 
Protocol Prompt Card  above which it says shows the questions  its staff would have asked. I 
also understand that it says after it had spoken  to Mr G it didnt have concerns, so a note of 
the conversation  would not have been made.  However, this doesnt automatically mean 
these questions were  asked or that WBBS didnt unreasonably (bearing in mind everything  
Ive said above) miss a chance to unearth  the scam. 
So Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions  that I believe ought  fairly and 
reasonably to have  been  asked by WBBS would have made a difference. I cant be certain, 
Ref: DRN18125468so I need to make up my mind based on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  based 
on what I think most likely  would have  happened.
I understand the cheque for £14,400 in April 2018 was made out to a third persons name 
and Mr G may have said this was for a family member. Im persuaded by the evidence E has 
provided that Mr G more likely than not thought  this was actually for an investment in gold 
bullion. I accept its possible that if Mr G told WBBS incorrectly that the cheque was for a 
family member, that if WBBS had gone  on to provide appropriate  fraud and scam warnings 
and ask further questions about  the payment  such as, what was it for, and whether Mr G 
had been called or approached by someone claiming hed been the victim  of a fraud or 
offering an investment  Mr G might have maintained  that the payment was for a family 
member. However, Im mindful of Mr Gs family situation at the time as E has described  it. 
And I think that had WBBS asked simple  further questions, such as who and what the 
cheque was for more  specifically  (and bearing in mind the name  Mr G was asking the 
cheque to be made payable to), Mr G would have most likely hesitated and struggled with a 
convincing simple explanation and WBBS would have most likely been concerned. 
In any event, I dont think  its most  likely that Mr G would have maintained  that it was for a 
family member. It appears that in May 2018  when  arranging  the cheque  for £64,000, Mr G 
did tell WBBS that the £64,000  cheque  was for an investment. And Im persuaded from the 
evidence  in particular the notes  E has submitted which appear to have  been  made  by Mr G 
 that this second cheque  was part of the same scam  an investment in gold bullion with 
investment company C. I therefore  consider its more likely than not that Mr G would have 
revealed at the time he requested the first cheque for £14,400 that this was also for an 
investment if WBBS  had given appropriate warnings  and asked  appropriate and 
straightforward questions  designed to get into sufficient detail to disturb or unearth  a 
potential fraud. The transaction was for a large  amount, and I see no reason why Mr G 
would not have taken WBBSs warnings seriously, have been concerned for his money, 
opened up more,  and explained  the investment was for gold bullion and how he had come  to 
know about it.
Given this, WBBS could have and should have then  in relation  to the first cheque   
questioned Mr G further about the proposed investment. It ought then to have been 
concerned: Mr G didnt initially disclose the reason for the withdrawal as an investment; he 
didnt appear to have any paperwork for the investment; he was requesting  for the cheque  to 
be made payable  to a third person  and not an investment company; and most likely his level 
of knowledge  of the proposed investment company he thought  he was about to invest  with 
should have concerned WBBS.
WBBS has said that C is registered at Companies House and its Financial  Crime Manager  
may have  thought it was part of specific, larger and more well-known investment company.
But I havent seen  evidence that persuades me C was a regulated investment company 
offering, or likely to be offering, legitimate investments in gold bullion  or that it would have 
been reasonable for WBBS to simply assume  it was  or that it was part of the specific  well-
known investment company it has referred  to, bearing in mind  the way in which investment 
scammers work to make themselves look legitimate.  Taking  all of this into account, Im 
satisfied that if WBBS  had questioned  things  further  and appropriately cautioned Mr G to 
consider and/or check the legitimacy of the investment before proceeding further, its most 
likely that both WBBS and Mr G would have  been  sufficiently concerned that Mr G ultimately 
would not have proceeded, and the scam  would  have been avoided.
Ref: DRN18125469The second  cheque was even more unusual than the first. I understand Mr G requested this 
second cheque  to be written out for C and that he said it was an investment. In its response 
to my provisional decision WBBS has said Ive said that it shouldnt  have taken  this at 
automatic face value,  but it says that it didnt. But again, for all the reasons explained above, 
I still dont think WBBS did enough at this point or that it could therefore  have  been  sure 
enough Mr G wasnt at risk of financial harm. And if it had looked  into things further it would 
have discovered  that Mr G had been  in branch the day before asking to withdraw  £12,000 in 
cash for a holiday  not an investment.
In any event, as Ive said, Im satisfied  that the second cheque  was, more  likely than not, 
linked to the same scam. And Im satisfied that if the scam  had been  avoided with the first 
cheque of £14,400, Mr G most likely wouldnt have gone on to request the second  cheque at 
all. I therefore dont need to consider whether  WBBS  should  have done more in branch 
before putting  through Mr Gs cheque withdrawal  request for £64,000  although for clarity I 
do think for the same reasons it should  have done more than it did and that this would  have 
made a difference; I also dont need to consider the points WBBS has alluded to regarding 
the bank that received the £64,000  since this second cheque, more likely  than not, would 
never have  been  requested by Mr G had WBBS done what  Im satisfied it should have done 
previously.
For all the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint that WBBS ought to have done more  to help Mr G. Im persuaded that had it done  
so, Mr G wouldnt have suffered the loss of £78,400  that he wouldnt have made  the two 
payments to the scammers. WBBS should therefore pay E £78,400 to reimburse it, less any 
amount WBBS managed  to recover and already return to Mr G or E. And as Mr G was, and 
then later E has, been  deprived  of the use of this money in the meantime, WBBS should also 
pay E interest on this, calculated at 8% simple  per year from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement. If WBBS  deducts tax from this interest, it should provide E with the appropriate  
tax deduction  certificate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Es complaint and I direct West Bromwich Building 
Society to pay E:
£78,400 less any amount already recovered  and returned to Mr G or E.
Interest  on this amount  calculated  at 8% simple  per year from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement. If West  Bromwich  Building  Society deducts tax from this interest,  
it should provide E with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2020.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1812546