K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale  Bank  Plc gave him unsuitable advice when it recommended  
a mortgage protection policy.
Mr R is being represented by his wife. All comments and information  attributed  to Mr R will 
include information provided by Mrs R.
background
In my provisional decision issued on 8 July 2020 to both parties, I set out the background to 
this complaint as follows:
In 2011 Mr and Mrs R increased their mortgage  borrowings  on their jointly owned property. 
So it was recommended by the Clydesdale mortgage adviser (the adviser)  to take out joint 
mortgage protection, but partly due to cost concerns,  they didnt want to do this. So the 
adviser varied his recommendation, instead advising Mr R to take out a decreasing life policy  
in his sole name. This was to cover  the full cost of the borrowing, decreasing  in line with the 
mortgage for the remaining  term of 15 years. The monthly premiums were  £34.56.
In 2018 Mr R complained  to Clydesdale. He said at the time of the advice in 2011, he 
already had mortgage protection  which had been  sold to him by one of its advisers in 2006. 
This policy covered  a mortgage of £150,000 and was set up on a decreasing basis, with a 20 
year term to coincide  with the ending of the mortgage. The monthly premiums were  £19.34.  
Clydesdale rejected Mr Rs complaint. It said the advisers recommendation in 2011 was 
based on the information Mr R provided  at the time.  Clydesdale noted  that Mr R hadnt 
declared that he already had existing cover  in place. So based  on the information provided  
by Mr R, its advisers recommendation  was suitable.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Her view was 
that Clydesdale wasnt obliged to check all of its systems before giving advice and as Mr R 
hadnt declared the earlier policy, she didnt  think the advice was unsuitable.
Mr R disagreed. In brief,  he said as Clydesdale had sold him the policy in 2006, it should  
have known about it when he was given  advice in 2011. So he asked for an ombudsmans  
decision on the matter.
I upheld the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision. Ive set out below 
my reasoning, which now forms part of my final decision.
Mr R accepted my provisional  findings.  Clydesdale said the following: While we have 
reservations about the obligations placed  on the banks adviser but not on the customers, we 
have no new arguments to provide and do not want to prolong matters. We therefore agree  
to the settlement set out in the Provisional Decision.
The matter  has been passed back to me to issue my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
Ref: DRN13758322complaint. I set out my reasoning for upholding  the complaint in my provisional decision 
which are as follows:
Before I begin my reasoning, I should point out that Im very aware  that Ive summarised 
this complaint in far less detail than the parties  and Ive done so using my own words. Im not 
going to respond  to every single point made by all the parties involved - no discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead Ive focused  on what I think are the key issues  here. Ill also 
mention at this stage  that where theres a dispute  about what happened  Ive based my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. In other  words, on what  I consider is most likely  to 
have happened  in the light of the evidence.
I can see Mr R had already been advised by Clydesdale in 2006  to take out mortgage  
protection (the 2006 policy). As this policy was due to end in 2026,  it was still active when 
he received advice in 2011. The 2006 policy was taken out on a decreasing basis and by 
2011 it provided cover of around £127,945, which was Mr Rs outstanding mortgage  at that 
time. Despite this cover, the adviser  recommended a similar policy (the 2011 policy),  with 
initial cover of £146,525  this covered the whole of the new borrowing.  So from 2011 up 
until he cancelled the 2006 policy in 2017,  Mr R was paying for one more policy than he 
needed. This meant he was paying additional  monthly premiums  of £19.34.
Clydesdale say the advice in 2011 was based  on information  Mr R provided and as he 
hadnt declared the 2006 policy, this wasnt taken into account  by its adviser  Mr R said he 
didnt declare the 2006 policy as hed forgotten  about it. But I can see information about  the 
2006 policy was readily available to the adviser as it was on the Clydesdale systems. 
Clydesdale have been able to provide documents relating  to the 2006 policy  to this service 
including an application form,  the recommendations and fact find.
 
Clydesdale say its mortgage advisers dont  have access to this information as they normally  
only have access to systems to check loan balances,  payments etc. But it also says its 
financial advisers  do have access to this information. As Mr R only wanted advice about 
mortgage protection, he wasnt  required  to see a Clydesdale financial  adviser  but instead 
could be advised  directly by the mortgage  adviser. This contrasts with Mr R meeting with a 
financial adviser in 2006 because at that time, he wanted advice on a range of products 
including mortgage  protection.
Whilst I accept  Mr R hadnt declared the earlier  policy, I think  this needs to be balanced by 
the fact he was receiving  advice for the same product, from the same business, in similar 
circumstances as hed done in 2006. I think Mr R would reasonably expect that any adviser 
he was seeing  would  be able to check the same system as any other adviser selling similar 
products. And I dont  think its fair or reasonable that Mr R was disadvantaged because 
Clydesdales processes meant he received  advice  from a different type of adviser than hed 
done in 2006.
In any event, Clydesdale say the advice  was still suitable as the increased borrowing meant 
Mr R needed more  cover and its not normally  possible  to top up an existing policy as this 
can create mismatches in cover. But I dont think this prevented its adviser  from providing 
suitable advice.  As Clydesdale have  indicated, its adviser wouldve advised differently if hed 
known about the existing  policy  and I think he (the adviser) wouldve known about the 
2006 cover,  if hed checked the appropriate  systems. I think  it was certainly  possible to 
recommend that Mr R cancel his existing policy before taking out a new,  more suitable one  
when Mr R found out about the 2006 policy he did, in fact, cancel it. So on balance, I think  if 
this recommendation  had been made to Mr R he wouldve followed it.
Ref: DRN13758323 
For all these reasons, Im considering upholding Mr Rs complaint and recommending 
Clydesdale refund all the unnecessary premiums he paid. I can also see that he was put to 
considerable trouble in trying resolve  the issue  having to liaise with several parties including 
the underwriters of the policies, which was made more  difficult  due to his dyslexia. So Ill 
also be recommending  £200 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
As no new evidence  has been provided  by either party, my reasons for upholding the 
complaint remain the same.
I note Clydesdale  said in the interests  of putting the matter to an end, it would accept my 
provisional findings but that it had concerns about placing an obligation on it to check  its 
systems. But as Ive set out above, Mr R was receiving advice about the same product, from 
the same  business,  in similar circumstances as hed done in 2006.  I dont  think  this is a 
general obligation  but rather because of Mr Rs particular circumstances, this is something 
he could reasonably have expected the Clydesdale  adviser to do in 2011.
So for the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint.
my final decision
Im upholding Mr Rs complaint and I order Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay Mr R £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Clydesdale  Bank Plc must also pay Mr R the redress  of 
A + B, where:
A = refund the total of each premium  Mr R has paid for the 2006 policy  ending  478 
from the date of the start of the 2011 policy  to the date he cancelled  the 2006  policy  
ending 478.
B = interest at 8% per annum simple  on each premium from the date it was paid until 
the date of settlement.
If Clydesdale  Bank  Plc considers that it is legally required to deduct  income  tax from the 
interest, it must send  a tax deduction  certificate with the payment. Mr R can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  and Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN13758324Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1375832