K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains as director of W, a limited  company,  that it was sold a professional indemnity 
(PI) policy through  Towergate Underwriting Group  Limited that was substantially more 
expensive than a policy available  online with the same insurer.  As the policy  is in the name 
of W, the appropriate complainant is W rather than Mr P personally.
background
Mr P approached Towergate in 2006 to buy a PI policy for his company; W. Towergate duly 
set a policy up. In 2010 following a query  about the premiums by Mr P, Towergate  moved  
the policy to another insurer (H). It was said to be a continuous policy  not subject to annual  
renewal. Nevertheless  the annual premium increased each year except in 2013 when it 
stayed the same and in 2014 when it decreased slightly.  But there were no large  increases 
in the premium so Mr P didnt think to query it. In 2017 Mr P was quoted a figure of £1,762 
for that years premium. He checked online,  to find that he could buy essentially the same 
policy from the same insurer for £257.  He put this to Towergate, who offered to arrange the 
policy for that premium  with H. Mr P decided to buy the policy direct.
Mr P complained that Towergate hadnt  looked after Ws interests by arranging  such  an 
excessively priced policy.  Towergate advised  that as it was a continuous  policy there was no 
annual renewal procedure. So it didnt check the market each year.  It assured Mr P that it 
wasnt aware of the price  that H had been  charging for its premiums through its online 
process. It agreed that the difference in price was astonishing but felt that Mr Ps remedy 
was against H.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I dont  think Towergate gave W clear advice 
and took advantage of Mr Ps lack of awareness of the market. It arranged  Ws PI policy  
through H, earning a large commission for that policy but didnt consider whether  a different 
arrangement might  benefit its customer. Essentially I didnt think it managed the conflict 
between its benefit  from a single insurer arrangement against the likely benefit to the client  
of a different  arrangement.  I didnt think it added  any value to the policy  and failed to offer 
any advice on the dates the policys price  was revised each year. So I said it should refund 
its commission to W for the years 2010 to 2016  plus simple  interest at 8% a year from the 
dates W paid any instalments until repayment.
Mr P queried whether the commission  included the yearly brokers fee but otherwise 
accepted the decision  on behalf of W.
Towergate has made no substantive response.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
When considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required  to take
into account relevant  law and regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards;  codes
of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice at
the time.
Ref: DRN17222702relevant principles/regulations
As Im looking at a regulated insurance  contract, its also important for me to take into
account the relevant regulatory  regime that applied at the time the circumstances
complained about arose. The following are of particular relevance to this complaint:
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (and its predecessor, the Financial Services  Authority)  
Principles for Businesses, set out in the FCA Handbook,  apply  to all authorised firms,  
including Towergate.  Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
Principle 6 A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly. 
Principle 7 A firm must  pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Principle 8 A firm must  manage  conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its 
customers and between  a customer and another client.
Principle 9 A firm must  take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice  and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
Further the rules  contained  in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS) 
apply, and of particular relevance  to this complaint are the following:
ICOBS 2.2.2 R When a firm communicates information, including a financial promotion, to a 
customer or other policyholder, it must take reasonable steps to communicate in a way that 
is clear,  fair and not misleading.  
ICOBS 6.1.5 R A firm must take reasonable  steps  to ensure a customer  is given appropriate  
information about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer 
can make  an informed  decision  about  the arrangements proposed.
ICOBS 6.1.6 G The appropriate  information  rule applies pre-conclusion and post-
conclusion, and so includes  matters such as mid-term changes and renewals. It also applies 
to the price of the policy.
sale of the policy and pricing
As I understand it, H sells PI policies in two ways either (as here)  through  a broker, or online 
(as Mr P chose to proceed in 2017). The broker route is for customers who choose to use an 
intermediary to buy their policy. H said the broker was expected  to advise their customer  (W) 
about the terms and conditions  of the policy, and its suitability. H quoted  a price for the policy  
which was accepted in 2010 and as it was a continuous policy  the customer  was deemed to 
have accepted its terms and conditions on a continuous basis,  including  the pricing 
structure.
I think the important  consideration in this case is the huge price  differential between the price 
charged online by H direct and that charged through Towergate.  I understand that H had 
been offering  the policy online since before 2010.  It hasnt given us a direct price  comparison 
for the years 2010 to 2016, since it says different factors were taken into account  in 
Ref: DRN17222703assessing Ws premium  in 2017. But I think it most likely that there would still have  been  a 
big difference in the two prices over the years, even taking into account Towergates 
commission.
I understand that, having set up the policy through H in 2010, Towergate then proceeded to 
issue the policy documents each year as if it was an annual policy. And I note that the 
premium did change each  year. Towergate has said that it didnt search  the market or review 
how much  W was paying for the policy because it was a continuous  policy.  It expected Mr P 
to contact it if he was unhappy about any aspect of the policy. But, for a significant  
commission payment each year, all Towergate  actually did was to issue the policy  
documents.
From Towergates point of view,  it says that it wasnt aware of the rates H was charging 
online and indeed it did appear to be surprised at such a difference. But the important point 
here is that Towergate  is a broker offering specialist insurance advice. Mr P is the sole 
director of his company  and as such,  I would  reasonably expect it to have treated him as it 
would a consumer,  despite W being  a commercial client. In keeping with its duty to give 
appropriate information about  the policy in a way that is clear  fair and not misleading 
(including the price  of the policy) it should, in my view,  have  been  aware  about  the likely  cost 
of a PI policy  on the market. 
From 2010  onwards Towergate allowed the policy  to continue. I dont think that just because  
it was a continuous policy, that obviated  Towergates obligation each year to comply with the 
relevant rules, especially concerning pricing. And I think that, for the amount of commission 
W was paying, it deserved more consideration than expecting Mr P to contact Towergate if 
he was unhappy.  I dont think Towergate  gave  W clear advice and took advantage of Mr Ps 
lack of awareness of the market. It arranged Ws PI policy through  H, earning a large 
commission for that policy but didnt consider whether a different arrangement might benefit 
its customer. Essentially  I dont think it managed  the conflict between its benefit  from a single 
insurer arrangement  against the likely  benefit  to the client of a different arrangement.
loss
So I have  to consider whether W lost out because of the lack of clear advice and of 
consideration of its position by Towergate. I think it did. I think  the policy W was issued in 
2017, whilst  not being identical to that offered through Towergate was likely in my view to 
have been entirely  suitable for W. At least I havent seen any evidence  that the policy 
through Towergate was better  and certainly  not worth the huge difference  in premium.  This 
is even taking into account commission and the likelihood that a policy bought  through the 
broker might  have  been more expensive.
The premium was set by and paid to H, so if any refund of that is due to W, that would be 
Hs responsibility. I appreciate the policy has been in existence  since  2006 but not with H, 
and I dont have  any information as to the likely price of a PI policy in the years up until 2010.  
But so far as Towergate is concerned  I think its done very little if anything to earn the 
commission that its been paid. I dont think it added  any value to the policy  and failed to 
offer any advice on the dates the policys price  was revised each year.  So I think it should  
refund its commission to W for the years 2010 to 2016 plus simple  interest  at 8% from the 
dates W paid any instalments until repayment. 
Ref: DRN17222704compensation
As its a limited company, I cant award W compensation for upset or distress.  But I can 
make an award for inconvenience in that its director Mr P was inconvenienced. I propose to 
make an award of £100.
Mr P has queried whether  the figure for commission  also includes the brokers fee. All I can 
say is that the annual  premium quoted by H included just commission. Thus  the 2016 
renewal was for £1,520, inclusive of commission of about a third of that, plus insurance 
premium tax. I believe there was a fee added by the broker of about  £50. As this was an 
administrative fee I dont  intend to include that in my award. I note that Mr P otherwise 
accepts my findings and proposed award.
As there is no other  substantive response, my provisional findings are now final, and form 
part of this final decision.
My overall conclusion is that Towergate didnt treat W fairly and didnt add any value to the 
policy on the dates  the price  was reviewed by failing  to offer any advice on the policy  and the 
possibility of W being able to source another policy. So I think it should refund its 
commission for the policy years 2010  to 2016, plus interest, and pay compensation of £100.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Towergate  Underwriting  Group Limited to:
repay to W the commission it earned on Ws PI policy for the years 2010  to 2016 
inclusive together  with simple  interest* at 8% a year from the dates of payment of 
each years commission until it repays W.
pay £100 compensation to W for inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P on behalf  of 
W to accept or reject  my decision before  26 August 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*HM Revenue and Customs  requires Towergate  Underwriting  Group Limited to take tax off any interest it pays to 
W. Should W request it, Towergate should give W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off so it can 
reclaim it if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1722270