K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited ("FICL") mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance ("PPI")  policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mrs W took out in 1996. 
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs W didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
The form,  including  the tick box for PPI, was completed by the salesperson.
PPI wasnt discussed and the salesperson didnt have a financial background.
She was entitled to six months full pay and six months  half pay from her employer if she 
was sick.
She had savings she couldve used to repay the balance  on the card.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
I can see from the application form that there was a separate section headed Protection for 
your Payments and Purchase  Cover.  And I can see the box has been ticked to indicate  that 
Mrs W wanted the cover. I agree with Mrs W that its likely the form was completed  by the 
member of staff and she was simply asked  to sign it. But as part of this process,  Mrs W 
wouldve had to agree  to the PPI so that the box could be ticked.  And Mrs W wouldve had 
the opportunity  to review the form before she signed  it. So, on balance, I think its most likely 
FICL made Mrs W aware she had a choice about buying the policy  and she chose to take it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs W got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions or limits  on the PPI cover. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the cost of the PPI would have  put 
her off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN14609152Ive taken into account that Mrs W recalls she wouldve received six months full pay followed 
by six months half pay from her employer if she couldnt work due to sickness  or an accident 
and that she had some savings. But the PPI wouldve covered her until she returned  to work, 
so couldve been  a useful benefit in addition to her existing  arrangements.  It also covered 
her if she became unemployed.
Overall I dont think Mrs W has lost out by anything FICL might have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1460915