K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained to Grove Pension  Solutions Limited  that they caused delays to the transfer 
of his occupational pension benefits  to a personal  pension. In addition,  they did not make 
him aware  of the ongoing adviser charges for his newly arranged pension  plan.
background
Grove's terms of business  letter set out details of their 'Pension  Release Service' charges. It 
included occupational pension benefits  being  transferred to a drawdown  arrangement. The 
maximum initial charge would be 7.5% and their ongoing charge was 1% per year.
On 16 November 2017, Grove requested information from the administrator of Mr Ss former  
employers pension scheme (the Scheme).  They required details of Mr Ss benefits in the 
Scheme, including  what he would  receive from the Scheme  from an immediate early 
retirement.
The Scheme administrator replied on 11 December 2017. This was received by Grove  on 
14 December 2017. The response did not include  information about the level of benefits 
Mr S would receive if he drew benefits  directly from the scheme  at that time.
On 5 January  2018, the Scheme administrator  sent the information  about early retirement 
benefits to Grove,  which was received on 8 January 2018.
On 19 February 2018, Grove issued their pension report. They  said the transfer  was not 
good value and that Mr Ss pension provision in retirement would suffer  if he transferred the 
benefits. However, Mr S wanted to proceed  and they recommended  using LV as the new 
pension provider.
In the advice report, Grove explained the charges within  the new plan would  be:
Financial Adviser's Renewal Fee (payable  to us) of 1% per annum of the fund value (but 
deducted monthly from 2nd month onwards and varies each month as the fund value 
varies). For example; based  on the initial fund value of £82,500.32 the monthly charge would 
be £68.75.
Periodic reviews
As part of our ongoing service we will automatically review your pension yearly and contact 
you with details of fund values and any other relevant information. Unless  otherwise 
requested, or an address  is not available, this will be e-mailed to you.
LV received  Mr Ss application  on 8 March 2018 and the pension  transfer completed on 
14 March 2018.
In their response to Mr Ss complaint, Grove confirmed  no ongoing charges were taken from 
his new pension plan.
An adjudicator investigated Mr Ss complaint. He did not think it should be upheld. He said 
that Grove were not responsible for the occupational pension scheme administrator not 
providing all of the requested information  at the outset. The initial  delay was not caused  by 
Grove and otherwise there were no identifiable delays attributable  to them.
Ref: DRN17229332Based on the documentation available the details  of the ongoing charges were set out in 
Groves terms  of business letter and their advice report. He did not know  what  was 
discussed, but it appeared that Grove  had reasonably disclosed their charges. In any event, 
no ongoing charges were  taken from Mr Ss pension and he had not suffered a financial 
loss.
Mr S disagreed; he said Grove misled him about the ongoing  charge. He did not know about 
it until he reviewed the advice report.  It is morally  wrong and unacceptable.
The adjudicators review remained unchanged. He reiterated that this service is not a 
regulator and does not fine or punish financial services firms.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for the same  reasons.
The transfer of benefits from defined benefit  pension schemes does typically  take some 
months to complete.  Grove  was required to give suitable advice. Mr S has not complained 
about that advice, I am only looking at whether they caused any delays  and the fees they 
charged. Obtaining  information and then formulating the advice to be given does  take some  
time. I cannot see that anything Grove has done,  or did not do, has caused any delay.
I understand why Mr S may think that the transfer should have happened more  quickly.  
However, I am not satisfied that Grove  caused any delay.
Mr S accepts that the initial  fee was disclosed. But he says that he was told that he had to 
have ongoing  and therefore pay the fee. I am satisfied that this fee was disclosed, although I 
think it could have  been made  clearer to Mr S that this fee was optional.  
Mr S complained about the ongoing fee straight  away and Grove says that no fees have 
been paid to them. Mr S has not suffered a loss for the ongoing fee. It is therefore  not 
appropriate for me to compensate for the financial loss. Neither am I satisfied that he has 
suffered any material distress or inconvenience. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint for the reasons given above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1722933