K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains about the charges Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS) 
asked him to pay when  he returned  a car at the end of its lease.
background
Mr O took receipt of a new car in March  2017.  He financed the deal through  a hire 
agreement with VWFS. The car was inspected prior to handback and the inspector identified  
damage to the rear bumper, right hand doors,  tailgate load area, three  tyres  and all of the 
alloy wheels. The inspector thought this damage  was beyond normal  wear and tear and 
VWFS therefore asked Mr O to pay for refurbishment in line with the terms of his finance 
agreement. The total cost was £1,388.16.
Mr O didnt think this was fair. He thought VWFS  should expect some damage on a car that 
had been leased for two years and he explained  that hed returned the car having  used  less 
than the allowable mileage.
VWFS didnt  think their charges had been unreasonable so Mr O referred his complaint to 
this service and our investigator provided  her opinion. She reviewed the photographs  of the 
damage, which had been  taken by the inspector, against the industry standard  that she 
explained was provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA).  She 
thought that most of the damage was in excess of the standard but she didnt think the 
damage to the tailgate of £225.48  and the right hand rear wheel of £36 were  beyond fair 
wear and tear and she therefore suggested VWFS should waive them.  She didnt think  the 
cars limited mileage was important. She explained that there was no contractual right for 
VWFS to reduce the amount due if the mileage limit wasnt reached.
VWFS accepted the investigators view but Mr O didnt. He thought greater consideration 
should be given  to the fact the car was returned  with a lower  mileage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr O so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired  his car under a hire agreement.  The hire agreement is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of Mr Os finance agreement  with VWFS explained that the car would need to be 
returned in good repair and condition except for fair wear and tear (as defined by the 
Ref: DRN14128752British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association Fair Wear and Tear Guide)  Id agree that 
this is the appropriate standard to inspect the vehicle to.
Ive considered the photographs of the damage  in the inspectors  report and would agree 
with our investigators findings. The damage is beyond reasonable wear  and tear except for 
the damage to the tailgate (£225.48)  and the right hand rear alloy (£36). 
I understand Mr Os view that the car would be worth more at auction because  he returned it 
with a lower mileage than he was allowed.  But theres no term in the contract  that allows a 
deduction and I therefore dont think VWFS  have been unreasonable  in their approach or 
need to reduce the bill any further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to remove the charges they have made for refurbishment to 
a scuff in the tailgate pad load area (costing  £225.48) and the scratch to the RHR wheel 
(costing £36.00).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1412875