K822xcomplaint
Mrs M is unhappy  about the way The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) have collected 
payment of her debt with them, most particularly their ability to account for payments 
received. Mrs M is assisted in bringing her complaint to this service  by her representative Mr 
W.
background 
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 11 June 2019. Ive attached a copy  to this 
decision. It set out my provisional conclusions. RBS accepted my provisional decision and 
had nothing further to add. 
Mrs M didnt  accept my decision.  She made a number of submissions which Ill summarise 
here:
The application for the inhibition  was legally incompetent and RBS should be 
responsible for the actions of their agents   Mrs M referred us to an article from the 
financial press  in support of this. However  she agreed the imposition of the inhibition  
wasnt unreasonable but thought the false accusation that she sought  to break it was 
and that had jeopardised her reputation;
Although the purpose of her complaint  wasnt primarily financial recompense the 
proposed compensation in my provisional decision wasnt a meaningful penalty and 
would encourage RBS to continue to indulge in such abusive behaviours;
She appreciated the SAR wasnt within our remit but it was a matter of legal record 
that RBS wrongly took her to court  and jeopardised her reputation;
My provisional decision concentrated heavily on the shambolic processing of the loan 
and the various  outstanding balances but this was only one element  there were 
also PPI claims  which  took a number of years to resolve in respect  of different loans;
She was unable to present figures  or illustrations  of misplaced or missing payments  
as RBS hadnt given her the information she needed  to do so;
She referred us to her earlier letter of 7 February 2018 which outlined nine different 
balances for the loan account over a period  of years without justification or rationale;
She considered  the spreadsheet showing repayments since  2010 and giving the 
current loan balance  at £1373.95  to be unintelligible, blatantly wrong and served to 
justify her accusations of RBS over the years;
She sent us a letter dated  6 December  2016  from RBS showing refunds of PPI 
policies which refuted the information  RBS had given on the left hand  side of the 
spreadsheet as many  of the payments shown  in that letter  were  absent;
She questioned  the opening  balance in the spreadsheet of £16,232 given by RBS for 
the loan outstanding as theyd given very different balances  of £9919 in 2014 and 
then £24,113  in 2015.
She was disappointed that none  of the blatant  errors in this spreadsheet had raised  
concerns with this service and that we were minded to assume the latest figures from 
RBS were credible.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that whilst financial recompense isnt the main concern for Mrs M I should state 
that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
Ref: DRN14372682award redress where appropriate.  I do not perform the role of the industry regulator and I do 
not have the power to make rules  for financial businesses or to punish  them.
I can see Mrs M has no confidence  the banks current  figures are correct  due to past errors. 
But its not the role of this service to calculate the debt outstanding or to work  out whats  
been paid over the years. I can understand  Mrs Ms frustration  at both the contradictory 
balance information  over the years  and the time taken by RBS to provide a history  of the 
payments which  properly show the application  of the full refund of the PPI policy  sold to her 
with this loan being applied to offset  the balance on her loan account.  I acknowledged both 
aspects in my provisional decision  and explained that these had led to me asking for further  
information from RBS which  resulted in the spreadsheet  and the updated outstanding 
balance of £1373.95.
Ive looked at the detailed  representations made by Mrs M made both before and after sight  
of the spreadsheet prepared by RBS which  repeat  and reference her earlier correspondence 
with this service. Shes also made additional observations  about  the figures in the 
spreadsheet. But those dont alter the areas I can consider in this case. Nor do they affect  
the central issues here. 
There is a court judgement which I cant go behind. And whilst I can appreciate Mrs Ms 
concerns in respect of the enforcement  action she hasnt sent me any new information which 
would change my view. Im only looking at the amount of the debt outstanding and how this 
has been administered. And my only concern  with PPI in this case to be sure the full refund 
of the PPI policy that related to this loan has been applied  correctly to the reduce Mrs Ms 
balance. And notwithstanding  Mrs Ms observations, having  considered  all the evidence,  Ive 
no reason to believe the figures currently presented by the bank are incorrect.
The opening  balance  on the spreadsheet as at 5 November 2010 is said to be £16,232.14.  
Many of the balance figures given to Mrs M have clearly been  wrong   theyve contradicted  
previous figures  by significant amounts. But this opening balance  is an approximate  midpoint 
between the historical  balances  for March 2009 and April 2012, given to Mrs M and referred 
to in her letter  to this service on of 7 February  2018. Mrs M says shes unable  to present 
figures of illustrations of misplaced or missing  payments as RBS hadnt  given her the 
information she needed to do so. But in the absence of any new evidence  from Mrs M 
contradicting these figures or Mrs M suggesting  to us what  that balance should be   even in 
approximate terms such as a simple reconciliation  of the payments shes made deducted the 
last balance which was satisfactory to her  I cant be persuaded the current  balance is 
incorrect.
.
So, although  Ive considered everything  shes said, I dont  feel Mrs M has sent any evidence  
which changes my conclusions. So, I dont see any reason to alter my view.
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint in part and ask The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
to pay £250 compensation to Mrs M to recognise  the distress  and inconvenience  it has 
caused. 
Ref: DRN14372683Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14372684Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs M is unhappy about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  have collected payment of 
her debt with them, most particularly  their ability to account  for payments received.  Mrs M is assisted 
in bringing  her complaint  to this service by her representative Mr W. 
background
In January 2002 Mrs M took a loan with RBS. RBS obtained a court judgement (CCJ) in respect of 
this on 1 September 2003 for £28,948.80.  Mrs M came to us as she was unhappy with the response 
shed received from RBS when shed complained to them about the amount outstanding  as she 
believed it had been repaid.  She was also unhappy about the way shed  been treated  by RBS and the 
various firms of solicitors whod  represented them since the CCJ and by the way RBS had handled a 
Subject Access Request  (SAR).
RBS initially responded to the SAR complaint and later to Mrs M specific concerns  about  the interest 
rates on her loans and statements for this and other loan accounts. RBS confirmed the interest rate of 
the loan and the element  of each monthly payment which related to a PPI policy which had been 
refunded, in full, on 25 October 2016. They also apologised for failing to send the statements  and 
advised they would provide them or make Mrs M aware if they werent available. And RBS said the 
agreements in respect of the other loans werent  available due to the amount  of time which had 
passed since  those loans had closed. In respect of the concerns Mrs M had about  the solicitors acting 
for RBS they suggested she referred them to the relevant governing body.
In his view our investigator said there were some aspects of Mrs Ms complaint  which he didnt think  
we could consider and said why he thought that.
As the PPI premium  had been refunded and offset against the loan debt, the investigator 
hadnt considered  the total amount of the loan payable  including the interest and the PPI 
premium as part of this complaint.
Due to the amount of time which  had passed both since the loan was taken  out in 2002 and 
since the CCJ in 2003 Mrs Ms concerns  about the mis sale of the original loan couldnt be 
considered.
This service wasnt able to look at RBSs admitted  oversights  about the SAR as such 
concerns about withholding information should be referred  to the Information  Commissioners  
Office (ICO)  for them to consider further.
Our investigator thought the main issue was the amount  of the debt outstanding which, when the 
complaint was presented  to us, was stated by RBS to be £6958.32.  But during our investigation, RBS 
asked for a further internal review of the figure outstanding and then said the remaining balance was 
£3655.45. Our investigator found,  on the evidence available to him, hed not seen anything  to suggest  
the new outstanding amount  was incorrect. And although he appreciated that Mrs M would feel 
uncomfortable - as shed been told an incorrect amount previously - he couldnt  go onto say because 
that had happened before it would mean this new amount of £3655.45 was incorrect.  
The investigator thought without Mrs M highlighting why she might feel the amount was incorrect or 
where the calculations had failed he was unable  to go through the history of the account to locate a 
potential error. He said hed be able to look further if she gave more information. But on the evidence 
hed seen he felt unable to say RBS were required to do anything further in respect of this complaint.
Mrs M accepted  the investigators  view in respect of the level of interest and understood that 
complaints about SAR were  not within our remit. But she disagreed with the view for a number of 
other reasons. 
Ref: DRN14372685She told us her primary concern was over the period of the loan the amount stated as being 
outstanding had varied dramatically and her requests for clarification hadnt been responded  to in a 
satisfactory manner. Mrs M illustrated her concerns with two examples. Firstly correspondence shed  
received between September 2008 and January 2017  giving very different balance figures  and 
secondly by the enquiries of this service getting different outstanding amounts of £6958.32  and 
£3655.45 without explanation. And she told us she didnt understand how the refund of PPI totalling  
£8307.16 had been applied to the account. She also repeated her concerns about  maladministration  
and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Although Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as the investigator,  information  about  the 
outstanding balance received whilst Ive been reviewing this case, has led me to take a different  view 
on the action to be taken  by the bank, specifically on compensation to be paid to Mrs M. So its right 
that I issue a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to respond to my proposed 
findings. 
In his view our investigator set what he thought we could and couldnt consider in this case  - its 
outlined above so I wont repeat it here. I agree with his approach and for the same reasons hes 
given. I also think its important to say that normally  this service wont consider a complaint where the 
subject matter of it had been  the subject of court proceedings and theres been a decision on its 
merits. So, like the investigator, Im looking only at the aspect of the complaint relating to RBSs  
accounting for payments  its received and the amount  of the debt which now remains outstanding.
 
In respect of the maladministration concerns,  the impact of the action taken on RBSs  behalf applying  
for the inhibition was unfortunate. But given the judgement I cant  say that the action was 
unreasonable. 
Following further enquiries from this service RBS now say the balance  owing  is £1373.95. Theyve  
sent us their calculations, which are being made available  to Mrs M, accounting for how theyve 
reached that new figure. It differs significantly to what they said when  the case  was referred  to us. On 
15 June 2018 RBS said it was £6958.32 and that they hadnt  seen any evidence to suggest  this was 
incorrect or that Mrs M had repaid the debt in full as she asserted. But by 10 July 2018  as a result of 
a review and reconciliation of the balance requested by RBS  they told us the correct balance  was 
£3655.45. RBS told us the rationale for this new calculation was the balance of what  was shown on 
their debt case management  system along with their costs. And RBS said they difference between 
those two balance figures was due to the PPI refund theyd retained possibly not being  taken into 
consideration, but they had no reason to think the balance was incorrect now.
I can see Mrs M has made efforts to consistently reduce this loan despite some difficult  circumstances 
and thats to her credit. Shes also been invited  by our investigator on a number of occasions   28 
August, 20 September and 29 October 2018  to highlight  why she thinks the balance  stated by RBS 
is incorrect  and where the calculations  have failed. In response  shes highlighted previous 
inconsistent balances from correspondence and said theres  a failure  by RBS to show how the PPI 
refund was applied.
On 29 August 2018 Mrs M told us her concerns were over the period of the loan and it stewardship by 
other parties the amounts stated as outstanding had varied dramatically and her requests for 
clarification and a statement  of account havent  been responded  to  she gave examples of figures 
from correspondence to her between September 2008 to June 2007 to illustrate this. And she was 
also concerned the full amount of the PPI refund hadnt been correctly applied to the balance.
Its not the role of this service to calculate the debt outstanding or to work out whats been paid over 
the years.  The current calculations of the payments received seem to me a far more thorough and 
Ref: DRN14372686satisfactory statement  of the dealings on the account than previously produced by RBS for a number  
of reasons. Firstly, from the balance figures quoted to us by Mrs M for March  2009 and April 2012 Ive 
no reason to question the banks starting point of these calculations on 5 November  2010 at 
£16,232.14. And secondly the spreadsheet clearly shows the application  of £8307.16  - the full refund  
of the PPI policy sold to Mrs M with this loan  to the account. From everything Ive seen prior to this 
spreadsheet RBSs  records, previous calculations  and explanations hadnt been able to show  that. 
So, although  there have  been very different  balance figures quoted by RBS in the recent past,  theres 
nothing before me at present to suggest the current calculation is incorrect.  And in the absence of 
anything more than Mrs M highlighting both previous inconsistent  balances and the failure to show 
how the PPI refund was applied, Im unable  to look any further at these calculations.
I can see why Mrs M had the concerns she did. It wasnt  clear to me on initially  considering this case  
how the balance  was calculated or how the PPI refund had been applied.  But the calculations on the 
spreadsheet now supplied by the bank show the full amount of the PPI refund being  applied to the 
account along  with various other payments over a significant period. So, at present, Ive no reason   
subject to any further information provided  by either party  to think the balance figure  now provided is 
incorrect. But Ill look further at any new information either party sends me before reaching my final 
decision.
Its taken  a long time for this point to be reached. A number of months passed between  the bank 
originally sending  their file to us and this current balance figure with the spreadsheet being  made  
available. And thats despite  Mrs M concerns about clarifying the balance and showing how the PPI 
refund was applied being raised  when she originally brought her complaint to us. 
Although there  is a long history to this matter  Im not clear  why its taken  RBS so long to provide this 
information. From everything  Ive seen the information on which the current calculation  is based 
seems to have been within their possession all along.  I can appreciate its been  a source of some 
frustration for Mrs M to receive  different figures for the outstanding  balance since the complaint has 
been with this service and I think its caused her some distress and inconvenience. So Im planning  to 
ask RBS to pay compensation  for this and I think the amount of £250 properly  reflects  and 
compensates for this inconvenience.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part and ask The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to pay compensation  to recognise  the distress and inconvenience it has caused Mrs M. 
Subject to any further representations I receive from the parties by the date below, I intend to ask The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mrs M £250  compensation. 
I now invite  Mrs M and The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to let me have any further  comments by 25 
June 2019, after which I will issue my final decision.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1437268