K821x#15complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the amount Ageas Insurance Limited has offered to pay him under  his 
motor insurance policy  after his car was vandalised.  
background
Mr Os car was vandalised and he made a claim on his Ageas motor  insurance policy. 
Ageas engineer inspected the car and found there  was some  existing  damage  and 
corrosion to the car which wasnt related  to the vandalism. Mr O obtained an estimate for a 
full respray of the car costing £4,320 including VAT.  Given the existing  damage  Ageas has 
refused to pay the cost of a full respray of the car and has paid him £2,000. Mr O is unhappy  
with this, questions  the status  of the engineer  and wants  the full cost of the respray covered. 
He says his car needed a full respray for a metallic  colour match and it will cost him £80 an 
hour for labour not the £32 Ageas suggests.
Our adjudicators felt this complaint should be upheld. In summary they said:
Mr Os policy says Ageas is required to cover the damage caused  by the vandalism. 
It also says Ageas will not pay the cost of any repair  which  improves the vehicle or 
leaves it in a better  condition than it was in before the loss and damage. In that case  
it says the policyholder  must pay a contribution to the repair costs.
Ageas  is entitled  to rely on its engineers opinion that some of the cars damage 
wasnt caused by the vandalism. The engineer, whose view has been supported by a 
more senior engineer,  said some damage was pre-existing and there was also 
corrosion. 
Mr O says a full respray was needed  to give a better colour match. But it isnt 
reasonable to expect  Ageas to cover the cost of a full respray.  Mr O provided  an 
estimate for a full respray costing £4,320 including VAT. This was based on a labour 
charge of about £80 an hour.  Insurance  companies will normally obtain a lower  rate 
than this and Ageas says it would reasonably pay about  £32 an hour for this work.  
Ageas has paid Mr O a cash settlement of £2,000 based on this. But Mr O hasnt 
been able to find a garage to do the work  for that cost and Ageas quoted  and 
discounted rate dont  represent the market rate.  
Mr O has provided another estimate  for the work detailed in Ageas engineers report  
totalling £3,125. As Ageas has decided not to carry out the repair  work itself it should 
put him in the position he wouldve been in before the incident.  So, it should pay an 
additional £1,125 to Mr O to meet the quote  hes obtained or work with him to find a 
suitable garage to carry out the works as detailed  in the engineers report.
Ageas has subsequently  offered to pay Mr O a total of £2,573.58. It says this is based on its 
engineers advice and reflects labour rates seen in Mr Os region  of £30 to £50 an hour.  The 
estimate Mr O provided is high and covers  some restoration of the vehicle. It couldnt 
authorise repairs due to the condition of the car. Ageas has asked for an ombudsman 
review.  
Mr O still considers Ageas offer is too low.
Ref: DRN13534702my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas says it cannot authorise the repair of Mr Os car given its condition.  So, the only 
option that leaves is for it to pay Mr O a cash in lieu settlement.
Ageas has already paid £2,000 to Mr O and its recently offered to increase this to a total of 
£2,573.58. But on the available evidence Im not convinced thats  enough. 
Mr O appears  to have accepted that Ageas will not pay for non vandalism  related  damage to 
his car or betterment. And that the car had some pre-existing damage and corrosion. Hes 
now submitted a revised invoice dated 5 November 2018 for the repairs  highlighted by 
Ageas engineer as being caused by the vandalism.  That invoice totals £3,125 plus VAT.
The parties havent agreed throughout on what would  be a fair or market rate for labour 
charges for the work. Ageas originally suggested it could get the work done  for £32 an hour. 
But that wouldve  no doubt been  with the substantial discount it could obtain as an insurer.  
And Ive seen nothing  to suggest its fair or reasonable to assume  Mr O could obtain a 
similar deal from any repairer he approached to do the repairs  privately.  Hes also said he 
cant find a repairer to do the work  at £32 an hour.
Mr O originally suggested a labour rate of £80 an hour which  is substantially  above any of 
the rates suggested by Ageas. Unfortunately Mr Os recent estimate doesnt specify  an 
hourly rate for labour. It just says the labour charge would be £2,000  for the repair work. 
Ageas has most recently suggested £30 to £50 an hour would be a market  rate for the 
region where  Mr O resides. It also says its engineer thinks Mr Os estimate  allows for some 
restoration of the car although  it hasnt  specified  exactly what  it thinks that is. 
I think on balance that it is fair and in line with the policys terms and conditions for Ageas to 
pay Mr O a sum that will likely allow him to complete the necessary repair work to his car 
that resulted from the vandalism. But it isnt fair for it to pay him for a complete  respray  of the 
car even  though it has metallic paint. It also isnt fair for it to have to pay for any betterment,  
improvements or restoration of the car. And it should only have to pay a fair market rate for 
the labour involved. That clearly is below the £80 rate Mr O suggested  but above the £32 
rate Ageas has relied  on. In all likelihood I think its probably closer  to the £50 rate Ageas 
has mentioned.
Our adjudicator recommended  Ageas should  pay Mr O a further £1,125 in addition to the 
£2,000 its already paid him. That amounts to a total cash in lieu settlement to Mr O of 
£3,125. He can then get the work done  at a garage  of his choosing.
Taking everything into account,  including the available  evidence  and what each party has 
said, I think that is a fair contribution to Mr Os further repair  costs and a reasonable 
resolution to this complaint. I think on balance that it adequately takes into account both 
parties submissions and concerns.
As a result I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed  outcome in this case.
Ref: DRN13534703my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Ageas Insurance Limited should now pay Mr O a 
further £1,125.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1353470