K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the exchange  rate Barclays Bank UK PLC applied when he used his 
credit card to withdraw foreign currency.  
background
In January 2019 Mr C withdrew 300 euros using his credit card. He was charged £271.89 for 
this, based on an exchange rate of 0.9063 euros to pounds, equivalent  to 1.10338 pounds to 
euros. But Mr C feels  an exchange  rate of around 1.122 euros to the pound should  have  
been used, based on another exchange rate hes seen from that day.  
When he complained  to Barclays they told him that the exchange rate was provided by the 
third party card scheme  in this case Visa. They confirmed  that they hadnt charged any 
commission for the transaction, and that the exchange rate used  was the exact  rate set by 
Visa. So they didnt  feel theyd done  anything wrong.
Mr C was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint  to our service.  He doesnt 
think Barclays have acted  fairly. One of the terms of his card is that he can make fee free 
foreign transactions, including cash withdrawals. He feels that the exchange  rate Barclays  
applied isnt a true exchange  rate and Visa have profited from his transaction.  So he thinks  
its misleading for Barclays to say that theyre providing currency free of charge. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint, but didnt feel that Barclays  had done anything  
wrong. They noted that Barclays had used the exchange rate they said they would in the 
terms and conditions of the account,  and explained  that there was no set exchange rate 
banks had to use, and that exchange  rates may differ for different transactions.  They also 
explained that when dealing with this complaint our service could only consider how 
Barclays had acted  towards Mr C, and not other  customers.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators  view. He still feels Barclays  have acted unfairly by 
using an exchange  rate he doesnt  think is a genuine rate. He considers that theyve either 
breached their contract  with him, introduced  an unfair contract term, or misrepresented their 
product when they said he could make foreign transactions without incurring fees or 
commission. So the case has been passed  to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr C will be disappointed,  but I 
dont think Barclays have  treated him unfairly or unreasonably here. Ill explain why.
Barclays terms and conditions say that non-sterling transactions will be converted to sterling 
using the Visa exchange rate and a non-sterling transaction fee. They also explain that the 
Visa exchange rate changes daily and customers can check their website or get in touch  
with them  to find out about this rate. 
Ref: DRN19555872Mr Cs card benefits from an offer whereby he isnt charged a fee for non-sterling 
transactions. I can see no transaction fee or commission was applied  to his cash withdrawal. 
But the Visa exchange rate that day was. So Im satisfied Barclays  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the card and the promotional offer.  And I dont think  they acted 
unfairly by applying the exchange rate they said they would,  rather than a different market  
rate.
I appreciate Mr C doesnt feel that this exchange rate is a genuine exchange  rate as it 
doesnt match an exchange rate hes seen elsewhere that he considers to be neutral. But 
theres no set exchange rate banks have  to track or replicate.  They are entitled  to set their 
own exchange rate, which  will fluctuate  for each currency, taking into account  various  market  
conditions and considerations.  So although  this exchange rate wasnt  in line with Mr Cs 
expectations, I cant say it was unreasonable for Barclays to apply  it. 
I understand Mr C feels that given  the exchange rate used his transaction wasnt  truly free  
in line with the terms of the card. This is a complaint  against Barclays. How Visa set their 
exchange rate is outside of Barclays control, and I dont have details of this. But its not 
uncommon for banks  and other foreign currency providers to build margins into the 
exchange rates they set, and I dont  think this constitutes a fee in the way Mr C feels it does. 
So even if this did happen here,  I wouldnt consider Barclays to have done anything wrong. 
Ive looked at the wording of the promotional offer applicable to Mr Cs card, and I cant  see 
any evidence Barclays breached the terms and conditions or misled  Mr C about the costs  
involved in making  a foreign transaction. As Ive explained, I think  Barclays processed  his 
withdrawal in line with the terms of the card, and in the way theyd said they would.  
I understand Mr C feels its unfair  that the exchange rates for euro to pound and pound  to 
euro transactions werent  equal. Had he converted his euros back to pounds he says he 
would have received less pounds than hed paid to purchase the euros.  But a bank is 
entitled to apply different rates to different transactions. So again, I dont think Barclays have 
acted unreasonably here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1955587