K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains about how One Insurance Limited  handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy. She said there were delays, poor communication and wrong information 
about the availability of a courtesy car. 
background
Mrs A said her car was hit in the rear by another driver. Her claim was firstly dealt  with by a 
claims management company. But after three months there was a dispute over liability and 
One Insurance took over. The other drivers  insurer admitted  liability after a further eight 
months. Mrs A was unhappy with how One Insurance communicated  with her and 
progressed the claim.   
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought One 
Insurance had provided an unsatisfactory service to Mrs A and this only improved after she 
complained. She thought One Insurance should  pay Mrs A £200 compensation for the poor 
communication and inconvenience caused her.
One Insurance replied that it hadnt needed to update Mrs A as she had called it once or 
twice weekly during the claim. It thought £200 compensation was excessive. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has already explained, One Insurance  took over the handling of Mrs As 
claim in February 2018. If Mrs A is unhappy with how the claims management company 
handled her claim before  this point, then she should complain to it directly.  I can only 
consider Mrs As complaints about One Insurance. So I cant  consider  here her concerns 
about the courtesy car or establishing the identity of the other  driver.  I can see that Mrs A 
has also raised another complaint with her broker about the sale of her legal cover.  
So the concerns that Im considering here are Mrs As complaint about  delays in the claim 
and poor communication from One Insurance after it took over the handling  of her claim. 
I can understand that Mrs A was frustrated  with how long the claim took to resolve. I can see 
from One Insurances file notes that some of this was due to slow responses from the other  
drivers insurer  and it not taking calls. I cant hold One Insurance  for the other insurers  
tardiness, but I can see how often  it chased  for responses to move  the claim forward. I think 
this improved after Mrs A complained. 
I think there was a delay  in One Insurance paying  Mrs A her settlement for the total loss of 
her car. I think there were also delays in One Insurance resolving Mrs As concern about the 
retention of the cars salvage. It took three  weeks for One Insurance  to agree to pay Mrs A 
the salvage value as she no longer wanted  to keep the car. And there  was a delay in Mrs A 
receiving her refunded  excess. 
Ref: DRN10087842One Insurance agreed that there  had been a lack of communication at the start of the claim 
until Mrs A complained. Mrs A had already asked for regular updates  after just one month. 
But I think the communication remained  poor for a period of five months. Mrs A frequently 
called One Insurance for updates and information. 
One Insurances notes  say that Mrs As complaint  was then resolved. After  this point, I can 
see that One Insurance set diary  dates for providing  Mrs A with regular updates. I cant  see 
that Mrs A complained  again until after liability was accepted by the other drivers insurer  
and she didnt receive her refunded policy excess as soon as she thought she should.  
One Insurance said that it didnt need  to contact Mrs A with updates because she was 
calling it so regularly.  But I think One Insurance could have set up its diary reminders sooner 
to provide a better service  to Mrs A.  
So what  I have to consider is the trouble and upset caused Mrs A by these delays in her 
claim and her having to chase One Insurance for updates for five months. Our investigator 
recommended that it should pay Mrs A £200 for the trouble and upset caused her. I think 
thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to pay Mrs A 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1008784