K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement  with 
1st Stop Car Finance Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality and was misrepresented  to him.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr W under a hire purchase agreement with 1st Stop that he 
electronically signed in December 2018. He contacted the dealer in January 2019  and said 
that he wanted to reject  the car and he complained to 1st Stop later that month about some 
issues with the car and that its service history  had been misrepresented to him. 
It arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert. It said that the inspection 
showed that the car was pulling to the right and there was damage to a tyre  but that 
wouldnt have been present when  the car was supplied to Mr W  and it said that the car had 
been correctly  advertised  with a full dealer service history. Mr W wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service. He paid £223.48 in June 2019 for a tyre to be 
replaced and didnt make all of the payments that were due under the agreement.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She didnt think that 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr W but she said that 1st Stop 
should refund him for the cost of the replacement tyre and pay him £50 to recognise  the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
1st Stop has accepted the adjudicators recommendations but it had terminated  the 
agreement due to missed payments after Mr W was issued with a notice of default so it says 
that he has no right to voluntarily terminate  the agreement. It says that it has an arrangement 
in place with Mr W and he still has the car and is making payments to it. 
Mr W has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. He says,  in 
summary, that he would  accept the adjudicators recommendations  but only if his right to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement is re-instated  and 1st Stop has said that it wont  be.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1st Stop, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of satisfactory  
quality when it was supplied to Mr W. Whether or not it was of satisfactory  quality at that time 
will depend  on a number  of factors,  including the age and mileage of the car and the price 
that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to him was nearly four years old, had been  
driven for 41,859 miles and had a price of £17,599. Satisfactory quality also covers  durability 
which means that the components within the car must be durable  and last a reasonable 
amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors.  
The car was supplied to Mr W in December 2018  and he noticed that it was pulling  to the 
right. He had the car inspected in January 2019 and some issues  were identified so he 
contacted the dealer and said that he wanted  to reject the car. He complained to 1st Stop 
later that month and said that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality because  of the issues with 
it and that it had been misrepresented  to him.
Ref: DRN154279321st Stop arranged  for the car to be inspected by an independent expert  in January 2019 
when the cars mileage  was recorded  as 42,798.  The inspection report  confirmed that the 
car was pulling to the right and that the right front tyre wall was damaged. It said:
The fact that the vehicle passed  an MOT in and around the date of purchase would 
lead us to conclusion that the tyre damage was not the at the point of sale & has 
occurred after the date of purchase.
Apart from the tyre damage/steering pull which we believe has been caused by the 
damaged tyre the vehicles overall general  condition is considered  to be good  for its 
age and reported mileage and being of satisfactory quality for the vehicles age and 
in our opinion  the vehicle  would have been in a similar condition  at the point of sale.
1st Stop didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint and said that the car was advertised  with a full 
dealers service history so wasnt misrepresented to him. It has provided a copy of the 
advertisement for the car which says that it has a full dealer service  history and would be 
serviced before it was sold.  The car had been  serviced by a manufacturers dealer since new 
and was serviced by the dealer before it was supplied to Mr W. So I dont consider that the 
cars service history  was misrepresented to him.
Mr W has complained about other  issues with the car, including the mileage, the tyres and 
the wheel  rims. But Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show  that the cars  
mileage is incorrect or that the car has the wrong wheel trims. 
The car failed  an MOT  test in December 2018,  before it was supplied  to Mr W, because  of a 
bulge in the offside rear tyre  but it passed the test later that day so I consider it to be more  
likely than not that the tyre was replaced. An issue with the right front tyre was identified 
when the car was inspected in January 2019  and Mr W paid £223.48 for the offside rear tyre 
to be replaced in June 2019. The adjudicator  recommended that 1st Stop should  reimburse  
Mr W for the cost of the replacement tyre and it has agreed to do so. I consider that to be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. Tyres are a wear and tear item and Im not persuaded 
that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require 1st Stop to pay for any of the other tyres 
to be replaced.
Mr W hasnt made all of the payments that were  due for the car. 1st Stop sent him a default 
notice in February 2019 which set out the action that he needed to take. He didnt take that 
action so the agreement was terminated in March 2019. 1st Stop says that it has an 
arrangement in place with Mr W and he still has the car and is making payments for it but 
that, as the agreement has been terminated,  he no longer  has the right to voluntarily 
terminate it. Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show  that 1st Stop acted 
incorrectly when it terminated  the agreement or has acted incorrectly in its dealings  with 
Mr W.
Other than the issue with the tyre, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mr W  or that it was 
misrepresented to him. The issue with the tyre will have caused distress  and inconvenience 
to Mr W. So in addition to the payment of £223.48 referred to above,  I find that it would be 
fair and reasonable for 1st Stop to pay £50 to Mr W to compensate him for that distress and 
inconvenience. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require  it 
to allow  Mr W to reject the car  or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
Ref: DRN15427933my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and I order  1st Stop 
Car Finance Limited to:
1.Pay £223.48 to Mr W to reimburse him for the cost of the replacement tyre.
2.Pay £50 to Mr W to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1542793