K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the maturity  value of a mortgage  endowment  policy. The policy 
is now the responsibility of Countrywide Assured Plc. They say the policy  had a shortfall  
despite making extra payments into it and that the explanations provided by the business are 
not adequate.
 
background
The business didnt  uphold the complaint. It said that for a number of reasons the policys 
value had not grown as hoped when it was taken  out in 1993.  When  it matured in 2018  it 
matured for some £ 49,000 as against a target of £ 60,000.  The business said the 
disappointing results  were a result  of a number of factors including poorer than hoped  for 
market growth and interest  rates.
Mr and Mrs L were  unhappy with that and came to us. One of our investigators looked  at the 
complaint. She said that the policys value  was dependent on market forces among other  
things. That was outside the control  of the business. Other  than death  benefit there were  no 
actual guarantees  in the policys terms and conditions that she could see. Therefore she 
thought the business  was right not to uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy.  They said they were surprised the business was unable to 
produce the documentation  from the time of the sale. They  accept there was an element of 
risk in the policy but not to the degree  they now understand it had. They think the 
explanations they have  had have been inadequate and very broad brush.  They  want  an 
ombudsmans final decision.
The file has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that I dont uphold this 
complaint. I know this isnt what Mr and Mrs L want.
There are a number of issues here. Firstly  Mr and Mrs L query why the business cant 
produce the documents from when the sale was made (1993). Businesses are not required 
to keep records for more  than six years.  It is perhaps surprising that any record exists from 
the time.  In fact, in more recent times  businesses are under pressure not to keep records 
any longer than necessary for IT security and data protection reasons. However there is 
nothing unusual about having  to make decisions based on incomplete evidence  especially 
when the events complained about  happened  over 25 years ago. 
The policy sold to Mr and Mrs L required them to pay a premium  and the business  to do 
what the contract said it must. It had to invest the premium taking costs  as and when 
required from the fund.  As far as I can see that is exactly  what  it did. The result  is what it is. 
Growth over 25 years has turned  the premiums paid into a maturity  value  which 
unfortunately was less than hoped for.  
Mr and Mrs L were  warned about the policys progress as required by the regulator. One of 
the options open to them  at the time the warnings were given was to increase the premiums 
Ref: DRN19172762they were paying  in. They did so on at least one occasion. However  it was made  clear  at the 
time by doing so the final maturity value  was still not guaranteed.
If I were  to uphold his complaint I would need  to be able to explain exactly why. Here, the 
business did what it had to do. Mr and Mrs L accept  they knew  about a level of risk. They 
clearly therefore knew  the policy wasnt guaranteed.  I dont understand in what  way I can 
say there  has been a failure on the part of the business. If I look across the industry  I see 
most businesses indeed most investment  classes having similar problems. The economic 
and regulatory  situation is very different now from what  it was in 1993.  That is also nothing to 
do with this business. 
I do not know where this business investment returns  sit in any table of results  but it will no 
doubt be more  successful than some  but less successful than others. Being able to say that, 
looking back, different  investment decisions would have been more profitable  than the ones 
actually taken is a statement  of the obvious.  To make judgments like that however would be 
to use hindsight in making a decision. I cannot  use hindsight in making  a decision.  
A very large number of decisions  over a 25 year period relating to investments,  costs and 
charges have been made by the investment managers here. Those decisions were made in 
a regulated environment with layers  of governance, independent scrutiny (such  as by 
Actuaries and the regulator) and oversight. The business is correct  in saying some of the 
factors influencing returns were  outside  its control. Even if I were to try and drill down to 
individual decisions it is very unlikely that I could  point to an individual  decision or set of 
decisions which were,  without using  hindsight, so manifestly bad or wrong that redress 
should be paid.  
I am afraid the simple fact here is that Mr and Mrs L invested  in an investment product  which  
has performed badly (or not as well as hoped). There are no grounds for upholding the 
complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 8 March  2019.
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1917276