K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold her payment protection  insurance 
(PPI). 
background
Miss M bought the PPI policy in March 2001 when she took out her credit card. Canada 
Square says it was an online application  and it didnt advise Miss M to take out the policy.  
Miss M cant remember much about  the sale but says she didnt know  she had it and didnt 
need it because, among other things, she had good employee benefits.
I understand the policy cost 59p for each £100 Miss M owed on her credit card. If shed 
successfully claimed on the policy, each month it would have paid out 10% of what she 
owed on the card when she stopped working. This wouldve  carried on for up to 12 months 
per claim.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Ms complaint didnt uphold it. Miss M disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Canada Square  has sent us a copy of its computer records of Miss Ms credit card 
application, along with screenshots of its online  application process at the time. The 
screenshots show there were yes and no buttons for an applicant to click depending on 
whether or not they wanted PPI. The computer records  for Miss Ms application show  yes 
has been clicked. I cant see that this couldve been  done by anyone  other  than Miss M. So I 
think its most likely  Miss M had a choice about the PPI and decided to take it. 
I dont think Canada Square advised  Miss M to take out the PPI. But it shouldve  given her 
enough information to decide  if the policy was right for her. 
The screenshots show that the PPI policy information was included underneath the yes and 
no options. Im not sure how the information wouldve appeared on screen,  so I cant  be 
certain Canada  Square  clearly  pointed out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But I dont 
think Miss M wouldve  been affected  by any of these  so I dont  think  knowing more about  
them wouldve  stopped  her going ahead with the PPI. 
Canada Square  explained on the screen  the cost of the policy  was 59p for each  £100  owed. 
But I dont think it was clear interest  could  be charged on the premiums,  or that Miss M 
wouldve had to keep  paying for the policy during a claim. 
Miss M says shed have  got six months full pay followed by six months  half pay when she 
took out the policy. She says shed  have got a redundancy payment if shed lost her job and 
could also have relied on her parents for help. On balance, on the information Ive got, I think 
the PPI  which, as Ive said, wouldve  helped  with Miss Ms card repayments for up to 12 
Ref: DRN17129092months for each successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim she made  could still 
have given her a useful benefit. Thats because the policy wouldve paid out on top of      
Miss Ms employee  benefits and potentially for longer. And while Im sure Miss Ms parents 
wouldve helped if they could, peoples circumstances can change and family help cant 
always be guaranteed  so it isnt the same as having an insurance policy  to all back on. 
Because of this, I think Miss M would  still have bought the policy if shed fully understood the 
cost and the benefits.
Finally, theres nothing to suggest Miss M couldnt afford the PPI and she could cancel it if 
she no longer wanted  it.
So overall I dont  think Miss M has lost out because of anything Canada Square  did wrong 
and so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1712909