K821x#15complaint
Ms L says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt do enough to help her when she 
was the victim of an authorised push payment scam. 
background
Ms L received an e-mail from who she thought was Her Majestys Revenue  and Customs 
(HMRC) saying  that she was due a refund  and asking her to complete a form to receive  this. 
The form asked for a large  amount  of personal  information, including  information about  her 
bank account,  which Ms L filled in and returned. 
She received a phone  call the same day from someone claiming  to be from Halifax who 
asked if shed made a payment to a merchant from her account. Unfortunately, the person  
claiming to be from Halifax was a scammer. When Ms L confirmed she hadnt, they said they 
would block the payment.  A short time later, she received a second call from who she was 
told was Halifax, but was in fact the scammer, asking about a second payment to the same 
merchant. Again, she confirmed it wasnt her and they said they would block  the payment 
and her debit card.
The following  morning, 22 March 2018,  Ms L visited a Halifax  branch to query  if her card had 
been blocked. When she was told it hadnt  been, she requested for it to be cancelled  and a 
new one ordered  instead. A few hours later, she received a call from the scammer claiming 
to be a member of staff at Halifax who told her that following  on from the attempted  card 
payments last night,  they needed to close her account and open a new one. To do this, she 
needed to transfer out the funds  from her current account into a new one they had set up for 
her. Ms L transferred  the £607.72  that was remaining  in her account via online banking. She 
was then advised to transfer  over the money  from her savings account into her current 
account, then send that to the new account  as well. She did so and transferred a further 
£504.93 to the new account  via online banking. Unfortunately, these payments went directly 
to the scammer.   
The scammer then asked her to send a further £740  to a different bank account and Ms L 
became suspicious.  She called Halifax immediately after this call but wasnt  able to get 
through on the first try. It appears that at that point,  the scammer added  a new device to     
Ms Ls online banking  and attempted to make  a transfer themselves, but this was flagged  for 
additional checks and was blocked. Ms L eventually contacted Halifax  again a few hours  
later and a scam complaint was raised. Halifax contacted the beneficiary bank a few hours  
later to request  a return of the funds but unfortunately none  remained. 
Ms L was unhappy that Halifax hadnt been able to recover her funds and raised a complaint 
with our service. Our adjudicator investigated  and felt that Halifax should have identified  the 
second payment  of £504.93 as potentially fraudulent and referred  this payment for further 
questioning, so he recommended that this payment  be refunded by Halifax and that any 
interest she lost from the funds not being in her savings account be added.  He also 
recommended that Halifax pay Ms L £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
cause by her losing this money to a scammer.  Halifax agreed and has since  paid the refund 
to Ms L. 
While Ms L was happy to receive a refund of the second payment, she still felt the first 
payment should  also be refunded. Because of this the complaint has been  passed to me to 
review afresh. 
Ref: DRN14287132my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Halifax are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
Ref: DRN14287133In this case, I need to decide  whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Ms L when  she made the payments of £607.20 and £504.93, or whether it should have done  
more than it did.
Both Ms L and Halifax agree that Ms L authorised both transfers  herself, meaning that 
Halifax had an obligation to process them. But as explained above, there are some  
situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer  look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transfers. For example, if they were particularly out of character for Ms L. 
Ive looked at the statements for Ms Ls account  for the months leading up to the transfers, 
so I could get an idea of her general  account  activity. In doing  do, I can see that she does  
make online transfers, often for similar or even higher amounts then the ones in question. So 
I dont think the payment  types or amounts used during the scam were particularly out of 
character for Ms L. I can see that the first transaction did bring Ms Ls account  balance to £0, 
and while  this was unusual, I dont think this alone  is enough  for me to agree that Halifax 
should have treated the payment as suspicious.  So, I think  it was reasonable for them to 
have processed the first payment  of £607.20. 
The second  payment of £504.93 was made less than ten minutes later,  after Ms L had 
transferred funds in from a savings account at a third-party bank. This payment once again  
brought the balance of her current account down to £0 for the second time. On balance, I 
think that due to the quick succession of payments to a new payee where the full balance of 
the account was removed  both times,  the second  payment  should  have been treated as 
suspicious by Halifax. And I think that due to the nature of the scam, a conversation  with the 
fraud team at Halifax  most likely would have revealed the scam and prevented the second 
payment being  sent. So, I agree that the second  payment  should  be refunded by Halifax and 
that compensation of £300  is appropriate in the circumstances, which I understand has 
already been paid to Ms L. 
Halifax contacted  the beneficiary bank a few hours  after Ms L notified it of the scam, to 
request a return of Ms Ls funds. Unfortunately, it responded to say that none  of her funds 
remained in the beneficiary bank account.  On balance, I think  Halifax  acted quickly  to try and 
recover Ms Ls funds. Ive seen evidence to show that the first payment was removed from 
the scammers account just 25 minutes after it was sent. So, I think  Halifax did what it could 
in the circumstances to try and get Ms Ls funds back. 
Id like to acknowledge  that Ms L has been  the victim of a scam and Im sorry shes had to 
go through this difficult experience. And I appreciate its been made more frustrating by the 
fact that she was in the branch a few hours before she made the online transfers  to cancel 
her debit card. There arent clear notes  from this visit so I dont know  exactly what was said, 
but Ms L has said she wasnt given proper scam warnings at that time and that if she had 
been, she may not have fallen for the scam a few hours later. Ms L was in the branch for 
what she thought  was debit card fraud,  which is different to what happened  a few hours 
later, which was an authorised push payment (APP) scam. So, I think  it wouldve been 
reasonable for the staff to have given her warnings about debit card fraud, but I dont think  
that would  extend to warning her about  APP scams  in general. On balance,  I dont think  the 
branch staff would have  been expected to give APP scam warnings in this particular case. 
Having carefully considered everything  available to me, I think it was reasonable for Halifax  
to process the first payment of £607.20, and I think it acted quickly  to try and recover these 
funds once it was aware  of the scam. Unfortunately, these  had already  been removed before 
Ms L notified them. I agree with our adjudicator that the second payment should have been  
Ref: DRN14287134treated as suspicious in the circumstances and that further questioning would have led to the 
scam being revealed. I agree with the recommendation given of a refund  of the £504.93,  
plus any interest lost and £300  compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused  Ms L. If any of this has not yet been paid, Halifax  should arrange to pay a 
Ms L directly.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I think the first payment of £607.20 was correct  to be 
processed by Bank of Scotland plc. But I think the second  payment of £504.93 should have 
been treated as suspicious and not processed. Bank of Scotland  plc should pay anything  
outstanding from the recommendation outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 January 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1428713