K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, lent to him irresponsibly. 
background
Drafty offered a credit  facility which commenced with a limit being determined and then the 
customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she requires. The credit was unsecured  
and had no fixed duration.
Draftys records  show that Mr R applied for £1,500  as a loan.  Mr R declared a monthly  
income of £1,600 with outgoings of £625.  Drafty says that it carried  out checks. The credit  
facility with a limit of £960 was arranged for Mr R in March 2016.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some  assumptions to 
illustrate the likely  cost to Mr R. On the assumption  that Mr R drew down the full £960 on the 
first day and then repaid  it over 12 months  in equal  instalments  then the total amount 
payable would have  been just under £1,284. This would  have equated  to repayments of 
about £107 a month.   
The arrangement did include  a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced  
ten days before Mr Rs salary payment date,  and it gave the minimum payment required for 
that cycle. It had to be the higher of certain  calculations in the agreement  at clause 6 which 
I have not set out here. 
A Continuous Payment  Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near Mr Rs 
monthly salary date. Other ways of payment  were  made available.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that Draftys initial  approval  for 
the account in March  2016 was satisfactory. And that Drafty ought to have  realised that Mr R 
was struggling from March 2017 and so she thought that it should  put things right from 
20 March 2017.
Mr R agreed with all that our adjudicator had said. Drafty has not responded. The complaint 
remains unresolved  and was passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the credit  was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should  take 
proportionate steps to understand whether  the consumer will be able to repay what  they are 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely  impacting  on their financial situation.  
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key element was that any checks needed  to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being  
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Ref: DRN15314052I have seen copies  of Mr Rs bank statements for this period. 
Mr R has agreed  with our adjudicators opinion and so is content  that the initial offer of the 
facility in March  2016 and the credit limit was appropriate. So, I say no more about it. 
I have reviewed all the information I have from both parties, and as Mr R has agreed with our 
adjudicator and we have  heard nothing from Drafty,  then I have approached this succinctly.  
From March 2017, the credit limit was increased, and I think that Draftys monitoring of the 
account ought to have  led it to realise  that this was not appropriate.  I say this because Drafty  
has said it carried out checks and it was under a regulatory requirement to monitor  the 
account. Before  increasing the facility limit in March 2017, had it carried out the checks and 
reviewed Mr Rs use of the facility over the previous 12 months, I think it would have realised 
that he was invariably at his credit limit. This meant  that he had to repay  the minimum 
amount each month, he was re-charged interest,  then he drew down what margin of credit  
left available  to him, and then the pattern was repeated. This meant that Mr R made little 
progress at repaying the capital sums  he had borrowed. Increasing his limit was not the 
responsible approach as it increased Mr Rs access to that additional capital amount which  
he was having  difficulty repaying anyway.   
I think that by continuing  to offer the credit facility,  Mr R was exposed to additional interest 
and charges. And from the credit  limit increase of 30 March  2017 I think  that Drafty  should 
put things right as follows:
calculate the amount of all interest  and charges  Mr R has paid on the additional  
credit drawdowns from 30 March 2017.  This means that the interest and charges 
incurred up to that date remain due and repayable by Mr R. 
remove any unpaid interest charged  on the additional post-30 March  2017 
drawdowns;
rework the sums  paid to the account  such that from 30 March 2017  any amounts 
paid to the account are applied to the reduction  of the outstanding  sums;
I understand that the outstanding balance in October 2018 was £1,282  and Mr R 
asked to enter into a repayment plan in November 2018. It was agreed that he repay 
£50 each month for six months  and £57 a month after that. Mr R has continued  to 
pay this and in January  2020  the outstanding  sum was a little over £590. Its likely 
that this repayment  arrangement will continue  if needed.
If there  is a surplus due to Mr R after the account has been reworked, then this 
surplus needs to be repaid to him with the added 8% annual  simple interest*. 
once the debt has been  repaid then Drafty  needs to amend Mr Rs credit file to 
remove any adverse payment information  for the period starting 30 March 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr R 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. 
 
Ref: DRN15314053my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part and direct that Gain Credit LLC 
trading as Drafty do as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Rachael Williams  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1531405