K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc restricted and then closed his account.  
background 
Santander has explained that it was contacted  in October 2018 by a bank which  also 
provided banking  facilities to Mr K. It said it was concerned about certain activity between  Mr 
Ks account with it and his account  with Santander.  Santander placed  restrictions on Mr Ks 
account, which meant that he could only operate it by attending a branch with identification.  
Santander also took the view that it no longer Mr K as a customer  and gave him notice that it 
would stop providing him with banking facilities after 30 days. 
Mr K said that, as a result, he was unable to make payments  to third parties, in particular 
those which  he paid by direct debit. He was unable to transfer funds to cover those 
payments.    
Santander didnt  believe it had done anything wrong in acting as it had. Given  the concerns 
reported by Mr Ks other bank, its actions had, it said, been  appropriate.  It noted  however 
that Mr K had produced the necessary documentation when asked to do so, and so offered  
him £50 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr K didnt accept the banks offer and referred his 
complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He broadly  agreed that Santander had 
treated Mr K fairly, although he thought it should also arrange to refund some  fees incurred  
on Mr Ks account  which Santander  did. Mr K didnt accept the investigators opinion,  
however, and asked  that an ombudsman review the case.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however come to broadly  the same  
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
Ill deal first of all with Santanders  decision to restrict Mr Ks access  to his account while it 
investigated the concerns expressed to it by his other bank. I dont believe it was 
unreasonable in the circumstances for Santander  to have acted in the way it did. Santander  
explained that this was its standard  procedure, and I accept that it was. Thats in line with 
what most banks would do in the same situation,  and it enabled  Santander to consider  how 
best to react  to the report it had received.
I turn then to the banks decision to withdraw  banking facilities  from Mr K. As the investigator 
explained, its generally for banks to decide  whether  or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide,  banking  facilities to any particular  customer.  Unless,  theres a very good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed. 
Banks should however give reasonable notice before closing  an account. Usually,  that 
means 60 days, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case Santander 
gave Mr K 30 days notice. In my view that was reasonable, given the concerns that had 
been expressed about the operation of the account.  I note too that Mr K had an account with 
at least one other bank,  so the immediate impact  on him would have been reduced. 
Ref: DRN10023362Finally, I note that Santander  provided Mr K with letters explaining  to third parties that his 
temporary situation when  his accounts  were blocked was due to issues within Santander 
and did not reflect on Mr Ks integrity  or creditworthiness.  
Overall, therefore, I believe that Santander has treated Mr K fairly.  It may be that he and the 
bank will need to discuss the repayment of any outstanding debts he owes, but I make  no 
comment on that here  save  to remind Santander of its obligations if he is having difficulty 
paying. Other than that, I simply leave it to Mr K to decide whether or not to accept the 
banks offer of £50 in compensation, assuming it remains open for acceptance.        
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK Plc to do anything more  to resolve Mr 
Ks complaint Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1002336