K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam. 
Background
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred  as follows.
In May 2018  Mr P received a call from who he thought was the Home Office,  the caller  
explained to Mr P he was under threat of deportation and in order  to resolve this he was told 
he needed to buy iTunes voucher and hand over the voucher codes to the caller.  Mr P has 
said the number  that came  through on his phone matched that of the Home Office,  but 
unbeknown to him at the time this call was from a fraudster. 
Believing the call to be genuine, on 22 May 2018,  Mr P visited  a well-known supermarket 
and purchased £350.00 worth of iTunes  vouchers, using  his Santander debit card,  and he 
passed the voucher codes onto the fraudster. During this time Mr P stayed  on his phone  to 
the fraudster and he remained on the supermarket premises.
After Mr P had given the voucher codes,  the fraudster asked Mr P to go back  and buy more 
iTunes vouchers.  Mr P has told us he asked the fraudster why they wanted vouchers, rather 
than a card payment or online transfer.  The fraudster told Mr P this is how the Indian 
government wants it. Mr P was then passed to another fraudster who told him he should buy 
another £600 worth of iTunes vouchers.
Mr P returned to the same supermarket counter. Hes said as he was talking  on his phone  at 
the same  time as trying  to make  the purchase, the shop assistant became suspicious and 
suspected it might be a scam  so they refused to sell Mr P the vouchers and told him to 
disconnect the phone.  Mr P has said he was fearful to disconnect,  but the supermarket staff 
convinced him it was a scam and even took the phone from him and spoke to the fraudsters, 
before the call was disconnected. 
Mr P has said the first thing  he did after leaving the supermarket was to visit a branch of 
Santander, but hes said he was told there was nothing they could do. Mr P then visited a 
different Santander  branch on 24 May 2018,  following  which he spoke to Santanders fraud  
department and reported the scam. Once  theyd looked into things Santander told Mr P as 
hed authorised the payment his claim was being  declined. 
Mr P complained to Santander as he thought it should have acted faster and he was 
unhappy with the service  hed received. Santander issued its final response  on 25 June 
2018. Santander said Mr P had requested  to purchase the iTunes vouchers and he willingly  
made this transaction, authorising it with the correct PIN. Santander said although Mr P had 
been the victim of an unfortunate  scam,  it did not think there  was any evidence  that the Bank 
was as fault.
Although Santander didnt  think it should refund Mr P his money and had no record of Mr P 
visiting one of its branches on 22 May 2018,  and being told there was nothing  it could do, 
Santander did pay Mr P £50 in recognition of the service it had provided.  
Mr P then brought  his complaint to our service  and one of our investigators looked  into 
things. Our investigator didnt think Santander  could have done  anything to prevent the scam 
Ref: DRN15035192- he didnt consider  the payment Mr P made was particularly out of the ordinary, or so 
unusual that it should have raised Santanders suspicions. And he didnt think  Santander  
missed an opportunity to identify the payment could potentially have been in relation to a 
scam. Our investigator also thought the £50 Santander had paid regarding the service it 
provided was fair. 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators view. He didnt raise any new points but requested  that 
an Ombudsman look into things, so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mr P, and I can understand entirely  why he feels so 
strongly that his money should be returned  to him. But having thought very carefully  about  
Santanders actions,  I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave   
Mr Ps account. I also dont think it could have  done any more than it did to try and recover 
the money.  
So, having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I do appreciate  
how disappointing this will be for Mr P, but I dont think  I can fairly say that Santander should 
reimburse him with the £350.00 he has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters  and I think the 
£50.00 that Santander  has paid for the service it provided is fair. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
-the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
-regulated firms  like Santander are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6); and
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016
Ref: DRN15035193report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably  in its 
dealings with Mr P when he purchased £350.00  worth of iTunes vouchers, and passed the 
voucher codes to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
Mr P has accepted he authorised the transfer  of £350.00 himself. Because of this, Santander 
had an obligation  to follow his instruction. But there  are some situations  in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transfer - as Ive 
explained. I consider  that as a matter  of good  practice Santander shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual  and out of character  transactions.
So, Ive first thought  about whether the payment Mr P made was out of character and 
unusual. Having reviewed  Mr Ps statements for the six months leading up to the scam, I 
dont think the payment  was so unusual or suspicious  in comparison to Mr Ps normal 
account activity  that it ought to have alerted Santander that Mr P may have been  at risk of 
financial harm. Mr P had made  several  other payments and transfers for amounts in excess  
of £100 (ranging  up to over £500) over a period of six months  so a payment of £350.00 
wasnt particularly out of character or unusual. So, I dont think  Santander acted 
unreasonably in not making enquiries about  the transaction  before processing it. 
As Mr P had purchased goods,  by way of iTunes  vouchers, and then straight away  passed 
the codes on, there was no opportunity for Santander to try and recover the money,  once   
Mr P had reported the scam. 
Ive considered what Mr P has said about  going into a Santander branch and being  told 
there was nothing they could do, and then needing  to visit another branch in order  to raise 
this matter with the fraud team. Santander has said it has no record of Mr P making  that 
initial visit  but it recognised  the service could  have been better and paid Mr P £50.
Ive thought carefully about this and I cant be sure of what happened,  or what  was 
discussed. But, even  if I consider that Mr P did visit a different branch at an earlier time, I 
dont think it would have  made any difference. I say this as Santander would still not have 
been able to have recovered  Mr Ps money for him  as it had already been  passed onto the 
fraudster, by way of the voucher codes.  I accept this matter has caused Mr P distress, but 
from what Ive seen  and for the reasons explained  I think the amount Santander has already 
paid, in recognition of the service provided,  is fair in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN15035194I am sorry  that Mr P has lost out, and I appreciate  this is a lot of money for him to have lost. I 
also understand this whole  experience was very frustrating and upsetting  for him. But in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  I can fairly say Santander should refund Mr P his money.  
My final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against  
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1503519