K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in September  2002. The policy  was 
added to Mrs Cs credit card account  when  she applied for the card in person. The policy 
cost 78p per £100  of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Halifax made Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to take 
it. Ive seen a copy  of the application form and note that the option  of PPI was 
checked and the application form was signed by Mrs C. Ive taken note of the fact that 
the application form was pre-populated, but on the basis  that this was an advised sale,  
and was conducted in a branch, face to face,  I think its reasonable to assume  that a 
discussion took place.  And I think that the form, including  Mrs Cs personal  details; her 
name; date of birth; mothers maiden name;  employer; salary; was typed because  the 
form was completed  on-screen during that discussion. Moreover, as this was a monthly 
policy it wouldve appeared on Mrs Cs monthly  credit  card statements  so I think she 
wouldve queried it much sooner if it had been added to her account without either her 
knowledge or her consent.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs C, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this because  Mrs C 
wasnt caught by any of the exclusions or limitations which would have made the policy 
less useful for her, such as being self-employed or having a pre-existing medical 
condition. Whilst Mrs C had some sick pay, she told us she had no savings, and no 
other means to support herself  if shed needed it. Taking all this into consideration, I 
believe the policy provided her with a sufficient benefit,  which  outweighed its cost.
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But she chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it wouldve been  useful for her if she 
wasnt working because  of an accident, sickness or unemployment as she had limited 
work benefits  this policy wouldve  paid out in addition to these  and for longer.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN13111372Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said, but these points dont change my decision. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs C paid for it. But Halifax has already given Mrs C back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1311137