K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the quality of a car supplied to them  by The Car Finance  
Company (2007) Ltd (TCFC) through a hire purchase agreement.
background
In mid-June 2015 Mr and Mrs B acquired a used car from TCFC  through a hire purchase  
agreement. The car had a cash price of £2,795. It was over eight years old and had travelled 
66,000 miles when it was supplied.
Mr and Mrs B say shortly after acquiring the car they had problems with it. They  say the 
supplying dealership didnt help and so they had some repairs  completed by a third-party  
garage. They say they continued to have issues with the car and so complained to TCFC.
TCFC thought the issues Mr and Mrs B were  experiencing were the result  of wear and tear, 
and therefore  didnt think the car itd supplied had been of unsatisfactory  quality. It 
suggested they contact the dealership for assistance if they had any further issues.  
Mr and Mrs B say they felt the car was unsafe  to drive, so they stopped using it and stopped  
paying their monthly  payments to TCFC.  Eventually  TCFC repossessed the car and sold the 
outstanding balance. A third-party is now pursuing them for repayment.  
Mr and Mrs B asked  our service to investigate this matter. In their view theyd been supplied  
with a faulty car which they should have been  allowed  to return for a refund. They  ask for the 
outstanding debt to be written  off and for their credit files to be amended.
The investigator considered the complaint. He concluded, in summary, that based on the 
evidence available  to him there were faults with the car. But in his opinion, they were most 
likely faults  a reasonable person would  expect based on the age, mileage  and cost of the 
car. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree. In their view the car shouldnt have had the issues it had so soon 
after them getting  it. As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer hire purchase  agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. TCFC is also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement, and responsible for a complaint  about their quality. 
The relevant  legislation  says that under a contract  to supply goods, there is an implied term 
that the quality  of the goods is satisfactory.  
Ref: DRN10168142To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description  of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. So it seems  likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.  
TCFC supplied Mr and Mrs B with a car that was over eight years old and had travelled 
66,000 miles when it was supplied.  And the price of the car was lower than it would have 
been if it had been supplied new. 
So I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts  of the car might  
have already suffered wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this car might need repair 
and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road-worn when it was supplied.
Based on the evidence  I have from both parties, it seems  likely  there  were  faults  with the 
car. I say this because  Mr and Mrs B have provided  some invoices for the repairs they had 
completed by a third-party garage. These  include a wheel alignment in July 2015, an electric 
part in November 2015, and brake pads, brake  disc, battery  and starter  motor in 
February 2016. 
But just because something needs repairing doesnt always mean  the goods are not of 
satisfactory quality at the point they were  supplied. Im sorry to hear Mr and Mrs B 
experienced issues with the car  which meant  that they had to pay for some repairs. Cars, 
however, suffer from wear and tear. The issues Mr and Mrs B paid to be repaired are, in my 
view, wear and tear related,  rather than premature or unexpected failures. 
I say this because  things like realigning  wheels  and replacing brake pads/discs and batteries 
are all things which  need doing periodically.  The brake pads/discs and battery were replaced 
in February 2016.  Theres no mileage  recorded  on the invoice for these, but the mileage 
recorded on the November 2015  invoice is 69,403 miles, meaning  Mr and Mrs B had 
travelled at least 3,403 miles by the time the brake  pads/discs and battery were replaced. 
I dont think its unreasonable to expect these types of repairs  on a car of that age and 
mileage, so I dont  think these issues made  the car of unsatisfactory  quality.
It would also appear likely the starter motor,  which  I understand was working, but not 
reliably, could have been impacted by the aging battery. Its therefore possible the starter  
motor didnt need replacing and Mr and Mrs B havent provided us with any persuasive 
evidence to demonstrate otherwise. So Im not persuaded there  was a fault with the starter 
motor or that this issue caused the car supplied to Mr and Mrs B to be of unsatisfactory 
quality.
Mr and Mrs B say they had other issues with the car such as with the engine overheating, 
with the power  steering and with a warning light showing. TCFCs contact notes say 
Mr and Mrs B were  encouraged to allow the supplying dealership  an opportunity to inspect 
the car, or to arrange an independent inspection themselves.  I cant  see they did either,  so 
the information available is limited. I also note these issues were reported to TCFC  before 
the November  2015 and February 2016 repairs, and in my view a new battery may have 
resolved some if not all of these issues. Based on the information  available to me Im not 
persuaded these  issues  were  present,  or that if they were, they persisted  following the 
change of battery.  So these alleged issues dont make me think  the car was of unsatisfactory  
quality when it was supplied either.  
Ref: DRN10168143Lastly, Mr and Mrs B say the windscreen  wipers  needed  replacing because they were the 
wrong ones. I have, again,  limited information  about  this. If what they say is accurate, its 
unfortunate. But windscreen  wipers need  replacing  periodically and I dont think this alone  is 
enough to make me think the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied  to 
them. 
Mr and Mrs B clearly  feel strongly about this matter. But for the reasons set out above,  Im 
not persuaded the car supplied to them was of unsatisfactory quality. It follows  that I think  it 
was fair and reasonable for TCFC to decline their request to allow them  to return the car.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2021.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1016814