K821x#15complaint
Mrs T is unhappy  that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited turned down a claim 
made under her pet insurance policy.
background
Mrs T took out a lifetime pet insurance  policy to cover her cat. The policy was first taken out 
in May 2016  and was renewed  in May 2017. 
In October  2017, Mrs T made a claim under her policy to cover the costs relating  to her cats 
pancreatitis. Red Sands initially turned down the pancreatitis claim. It said the medical 
evidence showed  the pancreatitis  was connected to health problems Mrs Ts cat had before 
the policy started.  Red Sands subsequently settled the claim as a gesture of goodwill.    
Red Sands  also said that as part of the online policy purchase Mrs T had ticked  that shed 
read the Assumptions and Information. The assumptions included that Mrs T accepted that 
Red Sands  reserved the right to apply exclusions to the policy  in respect of any medical 
conditions it subsequently learnt  already existed when she bought  the policy. Red Sands 
said had it known of the cats medical  history it would have added exclusions for all claims 
for the digestive  system,  heart conditions and urinary system with effect from the start of the 
policy.
During the gesture of goodwill settlement for the pancreatitis claim, Mrs T also provided  an 
invoice which related to her cats kidney problems. Red Sands said Mrs T would need to 
submit a separate claim  for that but it would be likely  turned down under the urinary  system 
exclusion. It said Mrs Ts cat hadnt been clear of any urinary  issues for two years so the 
exclusion would remain on the policy.  
Mrs T disagreed so she brought the complaint to us. She said her cats previous health 
problems were not linked to the pancreatitis. Her vet had written to Red Sands saying they 
werent linked. Mrs T also said the wide ranging  exclusions  Red Sands had added  were 
unfair.  
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. She didnt think  the pancreatitis  was connected 
to health problems Mrs Ts cat had before  the policy started. Although the policy  didnt cover  
veterinary fees,  she thought Red Sands should  cover the cost of Mrs T obtaining a vets 
letter for the pancreatitis claim. She did however think  the kidney problems were  excluded 
under the urinary  exclusion.  
Mrs T didnt  agree and Red Sands didnt respond.  Mrs T says that the previous  health 
problems are not linked to the kidney problems so it shouldnt  be excluded under  the urinary 
system exclusion. So the complaint has been  passed to me to consider. 
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold this complaint in part. 
I said:
I have to decide whether Red Sands can fairly  and reasonably  rely on the pre-existing 
medical condition  exclusion and/or  rely on the specific exclusions it added  retrospectively to 
decline the claims. 
Ref: DRN17821842can Red Sands fairly rely on the pre-existing  condition exclusion to turn down the 
pancreatitis claim?
The policy is clear that theres no cover  for conditions or illnesses showing clinical  signs 
starting before the policy commenced.  This is very common in pet insurance  policies.  And 
its clearly set out in the presumption and key facts, so Mrs T should  reasonably  have known 
pre-existing conditions and illnesses wouldnt be covered. The issue  here is whether this 
was, in fact, a pre-existing condition. 
Red Sands  refers to Mrs Ts clinical history  of her cat. These  notes show  that her cat 
suffered from diarrhoea in January 2014, vomiting in March  2015, and a sensitive stomach in 
October 2015. Red Sands says the ongoing  weight loss and sensitive  stomach are 
symptoms of pancreatitis. Whilst that is a possibility,  there is no vet evidence of a link to 
pancreatitis for Mrs Ts cat. The clinical  history  notes show that the vomiting was managed  
through a sensitive diet. Red Sands hasnt provided enough evidence to persuade  me the 
diarrhoea and vomiting occurred because the cat had underlying pancreatitis.
I dont think Red Sands has shown that the condition Mrs T claimed  for is related to 
symptoms her cat had before or within the first 14 days  of the start of the policy. So it cant  
fairly and reasonably rely on the pre-existing medical condition exclusion.  
Red Sands  have already settled this claim as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs Ts policy only 
covers the cost of treatments for her cat. Whilst I understand  Mrs T obtained a letter from her 
vet to support  her claim, this wasnt requested  by Red Sands - and even if Red Sands had 
requested it, this wouldve been  at Mrs Ts expense because this isnt a cover her policy  
provides. So I wont  be asking Red Sands to do anymore.      
has Red Sands fairly added and relied  on the exclusions for digestive systems, heart 
condition and urinary system?
Upon notification of the acute pancreatitis  claim, Red Sands added  specific exclusions to 
Mrs Ts policy. These excluded all claims with respect to the digestive  system, heart  
conditions and urinary system. Red Sands says that if Mrs T had told it about  her cat having  
a history of ongoing weight  loss, a sensitive stomach, heart murmur, blood in urine and 
struvite crystals it wouldve added  these exclusions when the policy  was originally taken  out. 
After seeing the cats clinical  history  its added those exclusions. These were backdated to 
May 2016, when  the policy was originally taken  out.
I dont think its fair for Red Sands to add and apply those exclusions.  I say this because  Ive 
seen no evidence that when Mrs T purchased the policy Red Sands asked her any 
questions about  pre-existing  conditions or symptoms. If Red Sands had asked clear 
questions, and she had misrepresented the answers, it might be fair to apply backdated 
exclusions  effectively doing what it would have done had it known the true position. But 
this isnt the case here. Red Sands  didnt  ask any questions and I dont think Mrs T wouldve 
reasonably known what sort of information she was expected to give. 
Red Sands  has referred to an assumption in its sales process where it reserves the right to 
apply an exclusion for any illnesses, injuries, symptoms or conditions  that it subsequently  
learns were  pre-existing at the start of the policy. It says Mrs T agreed to accept this 
assumption. I appreciate Mrs T had to tick a statement to say shed read and accepted the 
assumption which says Red Sands can do this. As Ive said, this means  any pre-existing 
conditions wouldnt be covered. But I dont think its fair for Red Sands to rely on this and 
Ref: DRN17821843add wider exclusions when its given no evidence that it asked clear, specific questions  
about her cats medical history when she took out the policy.
In this situation Id ask Red Sands  to remove the specific exclusions  going back  to when 
they were added. Sadly Mrs Ts cat has passed away and I understand Mrs T has 
subsequently cancelled the policy. But if Mrs T still wished to pursue a claim  for the kidney 
problem, Red Sands should consider it under the remaining terms of the policy  with the 
specific exclusions (urinary system, digestive  system and heart condition) removed.  
Mrs T has submitted personal invoices to Red Sands for the inconvenience she experienced 
when claiming  under  her insurance  policy for her cat. I agree with our investigator, it is 
reasonable to expect  some level of inconvenience when claiming  under an insurance policy.  
I think Red Sands have cooperated with Mrs T by responding to each of her complaint points 
within a reasonable time.  I appreciate Mrs T has experienced some inconvenience at an 
already difficult time, but I dont think Mrs T has suffered more inconvenience  than what  is 
reasonable when claiming  on an insurance policy. So I wont be asking Red Sands to do any 
more. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Both Mrs T and Red Sands agreed with my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mrs T and Red Sands have accepted my provisional decision Ive no reason  to 
change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings I uphold  this 
complaint in part.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ts complaint in part.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to consider the kidney problem 
under the remaining terms of the policy, ignoring  the exclusion  for urinary  system, should  
Mrs T wish to pursue it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1782184