K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained that the amount  Admiral  Insurance Company Limited paid to settle his 
claim under his car insurance policy is too low. He also feels  it was unfair of Admiral  to 
increase his premium  as a result of the claim.
background
Mr R hit a deer in 2017. This resulted in extensive  damage to the front of his car and he 
couldnt drive it. And he made a claim under his policy for the damage to his car. Admiral 
arranged for Mr Rs car to be inspected  and decided it wasnt  cost effective to repair it and 
declared it a write-off.
Admiral told Mr R the market value of his car was £10,890. And, it based its offer to settle 
the claim on this amount.  It explained  this was based on three different valuations from the 
motor trade  guides  used  by insurers to value cars. Admiral also confirmed the estimated cost 
of repairing  Mr Rs car was £8,500. And it explained  that it had written  the car off because 
the cost of the repairs was close to the market value. 
Mr R asked for his car to be returned  to him so he could pay to have  it repaired.  He 
disagreed with Admirals  decision  to write  it off and thought it had got the market  value  
wrong, as he had found quotes in trade magazines  for similar cars at around £11,000. 
Admiral agreed to return the car to Mr R but deducted £3,811.05, which is what  it said it 
would have got if it had sold it as salvage.  This meant that Mr R received £6,728.05 to settle 
his claim.  
Mr R has said when his car was returned to him it was missing several pieces from the front 
and he had to contact Admiral to have these returned to him, which  cost him time and 
money. Admiral has apologised for this but Mr R doesnt feel the apology alone  is sufficient.  
Mr R has also said that after he claimed  his insurance premiums  increased (when he 
renewed his policy) which he feels is unfair.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 March 2018. I indicated  that I was likely to partially 
uphold Mr Rs complaint  and ask Admiral  to pay him an additional £100 in compensation in 
recognition of the distress caused  by the business  incorrectly valuing his car initially  and 
failing to provide  parts  of his car after it had been  disassembled by its mechanic.
Mr R responded to the provisional decision with the following comments:
He said that the decision  to write his car off was based  on it being valued  at £10,890 and the 
estimated repairs costing £7,391. 
He said the cost of salvage increased by £1,067  when the car was correctly valued  at 
£10,890. He feels  this was an arbitrary increase  and has asked me to consider applying  a 
lower amount, which he believes would be more reasonable.
Mr R has also stated it cost more than £50 to reassemble  his car and he would like Admiral  
to cover this cost, which he has told us came  to £250.
Ref: DRN14677422Mr R has also said it is unfair that the accident  has been logged  as an at fault  claim 
because an animal  jumped  in front of him and he wasnt technically at fault.  He believes 
Admiral has recorded  the claim in this way in order to justify  an increase in his premiums. 
Mr R has asked me to reconsider all of the above and increase the award for compensation 
from £100 to £750  in total.
Admiral confirmed it received the provisional  decision  but had no further points to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to partially 
uphold the complaint along the same lines as those set out in my provisional decision. 
For the sake of clarity and brevity I will only addressed those points raised  by Mr R in 
response to the provisional decision. 
Mr R has said that the correct valuation of the car was £10,890  and the estimated cost of 
repairs was £7,391. He has said that I said he sourced this estimate himself however he has 
clarified that it was Admiral that provided this figure. Mr R has asked that I reconsider 
whether or not it was reasonable  for Admiral to write  off his car given the cost of repairs was 
68% of the total market value of the car.
As I explained in the provisional  decision insurance  companies will often to decide a car is 
uneconomic to repair and write it off once the estimated repair  costs  come within  60%-70%  
of the value of the vehicle. This is because once repairs start further damage can be 
discovered and it is also very difficult to be sure a policyholder will be satisfied with 
everything when  the repair work is so extensive. We consider this approach  to be in line with 
good industry practice and reasonable. 
The policy gives Admiral discretion on whether to pay to repair  Mr Rs car or pay him the 
replacement cost, less any excess applicable. Given that Mr R has confirmed the cost of 
repair was 68% of the value of his car I still think it was reasonable for Admiral to write his 
car off. And so I wont be upholding this part of Mr Rs complaint  as I cant  say Admiral have 
acted unfairly.
Mr R has said that the increase in the salvage  value of his car was arbitrary and unfair. I can 
understand Mr Rs frustration here. As I set out previously Admiral  has confirmed that the 
cost of salvaging  the car is calculated on a percentage of the overall market  value  of the car 
because of the arrangements it has in place for disposing of damaged  cars.  Its explained  
that at a market  value  of £9,800 it would have got 28% of this for the car, whereas at a 
market value of £10,890  it would have  got 35%. This means that letting Mr R keep the car at 
a market value  of £10,890 cost it 35% of this amount and thats  why it deducted  this from the 
amount due to Mr R.  
I dont think this means Admiral acted  unfairly,  as the policy allows it to keep a car they 
declare a write-off.  Admiral isnt obliged to return a write-off  to its previous owner. But if it 
does, we can only ask Admiral to deduct  what it wouldve received for the car. Salvage  in the 
UK is usually  based on the valuation of the vehicle, as opposed to an estimate of the actual 
salvage being sold. And if that amounts to 35%, then that what we would expect to see 
deducted. So its unfortunate  this had such a big impact on Mr R. but I dont think  this was a 
Ref: DRN14677423result of anything Admiral did wrong.  And because Admiral hasnt done anything  wrong,  in 
regards to accepted industry  practice  and standards, Im unable  to ask it to refund any 
money in regards to the salvage  costs.  
Mr R has said it cost £250 to reassemble his car and has asked that I increase the £50 
award I made in regards  to this issue to reflect this amount. However Mr Rs car still needed 
to be repaired when  it was returned  to him. And the repair would have required the car be 
disassembled. Therefore  these were costs that Mr R was going to have to pay regardless of 
whether or not Admiral  had returned  the car reassembled. So I dont think it would be fair to 
ask the Admiral to cover  this expense. 
I understand that Mr R didnt cause this accident  to happen. In his response to the 
provisional decision he has correctly  stated that insurance companies record accidents  like 
his as an at fault claim because there  is no third party for them  to recover  costs  from. Mr R 
feels that this is unfair and reflects  badly  on him when he did nothing  wrong.  I can 
understand his frustration  but this is standard practice  and as such I cant  say Admiral have 
done anything  wrong in recording the accident in this way. 
I had previously suggested the additional award of £100 compensation in recognition  of the 
error Admiral made in how it initially valued Mr Rs car as well as the fact the car was 
returned to him partially disassembled. Mr R asked  me to increase this to £750 to reflect  the 
issues around the value of the salvage and the cost of reassembly.
However, for the reasons  set out above, I dont think Admiral  was incorrect  in how it valued 
the salvage and I dont  believe its ultimately  responsible for covering the costs  of 
reassembly.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, and in my provisional decision,  I partially uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  should:
Pay Mr R  £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. This is in 
addition to the £50 it had previously paid to him before  he brought his complaint to 
us. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1467742