K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a store card account  in 1994.
Although the policy was sold by another business, FICL, as the insurer  has accepted 
responsibility for the sale and this complaint. So to keep things simple, Ive referred to FICL  
as the seller in my decision.
background
Mrs R took out the PPI on a store account in 1994.  This policy  covered her if she was off 
work sick, or because  of an accident. It also covered her if she lost her job. It cost around £1 
per every £100 on her account balance. The first premium was free. On a successful claim it 
would have paid out 15% of the outstanding  account  balance until Mrs R returned to work or 
the balance was repaid. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs R disagreed with this view 
and asked that her matter  be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R but I will explain why.
FICL had to give Mrs R an option  about  whether or not to buy the policy.  Mrs R says she 
was told that it would boost her chances of getting  the card if she took out the PPI. To help 
me decide if Mrs R was given a fair choice about buying the PPI Ive thought  about  what 
both parties have told me as well as looking at the available evidence.
Ive seen a copy  of the completed credit agreement  from the time. Theres  a section on the 
form which is headed protection for your payments and purchases. This states; Payment 
protection covers  your account  in the event of sickness, accident, involuntary  
unemployment or loss of life. Your first premium  is free and you can cancel at any time 
There are yes and no boxes underneath.  Mrs R has ticked the yes box and has signed 
and dated the form.  And although  I cant say what the representative said to her at the time, 
theres nothing on the form that makes me think she would have  been  told she had to have 
the insurance in order to get the store  card.
I can also see that the section about card protection plan has been  crossed  through.  That 
indicates to me that Mrs R had some choices about  whether or not to take out different types 
of cover.  Overall, I think she would have known that she had an option to take out the PPI or 
leave it.
I dont think FICL advised Mrs R to buy the PPI. That meant it didnt have  to make sure it 
was suitable for her. It still had to give enough clear information  so that Mrs R could make an 
informed decision about whether or not to buy the PPI.
Ref: DRN17011202Mrs R has told us that she didnt  think the policy was properly explained to her. Its possible 
that not all the information  given to Mrs R was as clear  as it could have been. But thats  not 
enough for me to uphold this complaint. I next need  to think  about whether  Mrs R would 
have changed  her mind  if shed had better  or clearer information. Looking at Mrs Rs 
circumstances and taking  into account  the policy terms  and conditions; I cant say she would 
have changed  her mind  about buying the PPI.
I say that because I can see she was eligible for the cover. And as she was working and she 
has said that at the time this policy was sold she didnt have any pre-existing medical  
conditions I dont think she was likely  to have been  affected by any of the main limitations 
and exclusions which might have  made  it more difficult to make a successful claim.
As a non-advised sale FICL didnt need  to check  it was a good fit for her circumstances but 
Ive thought about what Mrs R has told us. She said she would have only received statutory 
sick pay and that she would have asked her partner to help her if she fell into difficulty.  She 
has also told us she had some savings. Thinking about this I still think  the PPI could have 
been useful if she couldnt work or lost her job. I say this as the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any statutory  sick pay and for longer. And although  I have no doubt her partner 
would have wanted to help, circumstances  can change, particularly over the longer term. 
Any savings she had could  have been used towards  important and essential  living  
expenses.
Theres nothing to make me think that this policy was unaffordable  or that Mrs R had a 
particular need  to keep the costs down. Ive also thought about what  shes told us about a 
friend being successful  in relation to a similar PPI matter  and that another one of her own 
similar PPI complaints was upheld. But every case is looked  at separately on its own merits 
and individual  facts  and evidence. What applies in one case  doesnt necessarily apply in 
another case. Looking carefully  at this matter, it looks like Mrs R chose the cover. And for 
the reasons Ive explained I dont think Mrs R lost out financially because  of anything FICL  
did wrong. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R but I hope the reasons Ive given explain why I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1701120