K822xComplaint
Mr B complains that a representative of Legal & General  Assurance  Society  Limited 
recommended that he take out an investment Individual Savings Account (ISA) that was 
unsuitable for him as it was a higher risk than his cautious attitude.
In making his complaint, Mr B is represented by a Claims Management Company.
Background
In November 2006 Mr B, together with his wife, sought advice on their investments. At that
time, they invested  solely in cash-based investments and ISAs. Their documented needs
and objectives  at the time were for Better  potential growth than cash  can provide over the
medium to long term.
Legal & Generals representative  recommended that Mr B place £5,000 into an investment
ISA, split equally between  an Equity  and Bond Fund and its UK Property Trust Fund.
Mr B maintained his ISA until 2011, when he surrendered it and received back £4,931.03.
In 2018, Mr Bs representative complained  on his behalf about Legal  & Generals 
recommendation, saying that the investment carried a greater degree of risk than he was
made aware  of or was willing to take. It said that Mr B was a novice investor;  that he wasnt
given enough  time to decide whether to go ahead with the advice; and that he didnt have
the capacity to make up any loss from the investment.
Legal & General said that Mr B had wanted  to discuss diversifying  his investments to try and
achieve greater  growth  over the longer term. It said its representative had made a
recommendation in line with Mr Bs agreed  attitude  to investment risk which  was cautious.
Legal & General said that it had recommended  he invest  equally between  a moderate and a
cautious fund,  and that its adviser  had discussed  risk versus  reward. It said the information
given to Mr B confirmed that investment  returns werent guaranteed and the value could go
up as well as down.
Our investigators opinion
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and didnt think  it should be upheld.  She
said that the documentation  from the time was clear about what was discussed, and Mr B
had accepted the recommendation. The investigator said Mr B had wanted to achieve
growth and so chose  low risk investments, rather than no risk ones.
Mr Bs representative didnt accept the investigators  findings  and asked for the complaint to
be reviewed. It didnt agree that the recommended funds  were suitable for him as it said they
had significant  volatility and liquidity risk.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2020. In summary, I thought it 
should be upheld  as I didnt think the recommendation  Legal & General made was right for 
Mr B.
Ref: DRN12824622I said that Mr B approached Legal  & General for advice together  with his wife, and much  of 
their joint circumstances  were taken into account,  however, the recommendation for Mr B 
was for an ISA, which is an individually held investment. The notes from this meeting say 
that Mr B and his wife were reviewing their savings and wanted  a better return  than they 
were getting  from their cash-based savings, which were largely held in an instant access  
account. The notes  also show  that Mr B had not invested his savings  before in anything 
other than cash:
Because your portfolio  is made up of cash  on deposit, you have only invested  in cash
previously as you have  not been  aware  of the other options open  to you and were  unsure
about taking any risk at all with your capital.
I said that Mr B was assessed  as having  a cautious attitude to investment risk. He answered 
yes to the question: Would you be prepared to put a portion of your lump sum into a higher 
risk fund providing that your overall  portfolio  risk profile stays  the same?.
Legal & Generals recommendation was for Mr B to invest  £5,000  into an equity ISA, split
between its UK Property Fund and an Equity Fund.  The reasons why letter  sent to Mr B after
the meeting set out that this, alongside keeping  an amount on deposit,  would  give diversity
in their portfolio  to match his cautious  attitude  to investment risk. This suggested that the
amount kept on deposit would balance out the higher  risk of investing the equity fund.
I said I thought the fact find completed during the meeting with Legal & Generals 
representative was very sparsely completed. It didnt give much information  about  Mr Bs 
lifestyle; future plans or his ability to be able to make  up any losses from investments. But I 
thought about Mr Bs particular circumstances - his age; retirement  status and monthly 
income and outgoings  and also what he and his wife were looking for from the advice. 
And, on balance, I wasnt persuaded that Legal & Generals  recommendation was right for 
Mr B.
This was because,  based on the existing savings he had with his wife, his risk profile was
described as minimal , and it was noted  that, together  with his wife, they were  unsure about
taking any risk at all with their capital. They hadnt previously done so.
The fact find noted  that Mr B was willing to put a portion of money into higher risk funds to
provide an overall  risk profile that stayed cautious.  However, Legal  & Generals description
of cautious was someone investing in gilts and lower yielding  corporate bonds; with-profits or
distribution bonds; and cautious  managed funds.
The reasons  why letter also shows that they were advised to keep £1,680 in deposit-based
accounts. However, Mr B and his wife chose instead  to keep around £6,500 as they
preferred to be strong in cash . And I said I thought this could show they may have had 
concerns about  taking  investment risk with more of their capital.
I said that although I appreciated that Legal & General may consider  that Mr Bs overall 
portfolio of savings  and investments matched his need for a cautious approach,  because  the 
cash element off-set  the risky elements,  I wasnt  persuaded that Mr B was either willing  or in 
a position to accept the risk associated with this recommendation  for a fairly high proportion  
of his savings.
Ref: DRN12824623The responses
Mr Bs representatives responded to say that he agreed with my provisional decision.
Legal & General confirmed that it had received my provisional decision and would be 
reviewing it. However, it didnt reply with any further  submissions.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B has accepted  my provisional decision,  and Legal & General hasnt added any 
further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to change the conclusions  I 
reached.
Putting things  right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr B 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice.
I think Mr B would have invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr Bs circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Legal  & General do? 
To compensate Mr B fairly,  Legal & General  must:
Compare the performance of Mr Bs investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Legal & General should also pay interest  as set out below. 
Ref: DRN12824624Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
ISA 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Legal & 
General should  use the monthly  average  rate for one-year fixed-rate  bonds  as published by 
the Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually  compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
Ref: DRN12824625I consider that Mr Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean  that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker fund.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude. 
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. If Legal  & General considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr B how much  its 
taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  My decision is that Legal  & General Assurance Society Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1282462