K820x#14Complaint
Mr C has complained that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA reversed a payment into his
account, leaving it in deficit.
Background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Response to my provisional decision
PayPal accepted my provisional decision.
Mr C disagreed with my findings.  He said eBay  allows a buyer to collect  goods in person 
whilst also advising  sellers to use PayPal. 
He said eBay and PayPal are advertising one thing,  but then say another  when a problem 
arises.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr Cs comments. 
Ive looked at the eBay website. It does  allow a buyer to collect an item in person, especially 
where the item is large,  and it encourages sellers to offer a range of payments services,  
including PayPal. The eBay website also advises sellers to get an eBay message from the 
buyer confirming delivery and a signed invoice or receipt from the buyer.
So, potentially, there is a discrepancy  between what eBay allows  and PayPals User 
Agreement. And I can see why Mr C thought  he could arrange for collection in person and 
still be protected. Im sure many other sellers would think the same.
But this is an eBay policy,  not a PayPal one. I did contact PayPal and drew its attention to 
the eBay website. It replied that, although  they work closely with eBay, it is a separate entity 
to eBay. 
It also pointed out that its buyer protection policy has a similar provision. That policy says 
that buyers are not protected for purchases  of items  which  they collect in person, or arrange  
to be collected  on their behalf  (including  at a retail point of sale) and which they claim to be 
Not Received. (I note that theres  also no protection when goods are collected  from a retail 
point either   which is also allowed by eBay).
The overriding  condition for sellers and buyers is that goods must be posted. 
Ref: DRN14375662I agree  PayPal is a separate entity  and is not responsible for what  eBay might allow on its 
website. And Im afraid  I have to take into account PayPals terms and conditions when 
determining what is fair and reasonable. I dont agree PayPal has hidden  the postal 
requirement in small print,  as Mr C suggests.  The requirement is a main section of the User 
Agreement with key sections written in bold.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I might consider other delivery  options,  on fair and 
reasonable grounds, if those options  are satisfactory  proof  of safe delivery to the correct  
buyer. However, Im afraid I dont think this is the situation here.  
Given the circumstances, I think it was fair and reasonable for PayPal to reverse  the 
payment and I wont be asking it to reimburse Mr C.
Im sorry  to send disappointing  news and I know this is frustrating for Mr C but I hope the 
reasons for my decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14375663Complaint
Mr C has complained that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA reversed a payment into his account, 
leaving it in deficit.
Background
Mr C sold a watch on eBay.
The buyer  paid the money into Mr Cs PayPal account on 3 January  2018.  PayPal sent a text 
message to Mr C at 15:50 confirming  receipt  of the payment.
The buyer  asked if his friend  could  collect the watch in person. Mr C agreed with this arrangement but 
asked that the friend bring proof of the buyers  identity. This was agreed at 16:08.
The friend  collected the watch  the same  day. He showed Mr C a copy of a utility bill in the buyers 
name. He also gave  Mr C a signed receipt for the watch.
Five hours  after payment, PayPal was contacted by the account-holder of the account used by the 
buyer. The account-holder said he hadnt authorised the payment to Mr C and it was fraudulent.
PayPal sent Mr C three emails on 3, 6 and 10 January  2018, asking  him to log on to his account and 
respond to its enquiries.  He didnt. In the meantime, it investigated the accountholders claim and 
decided the payment was unauthorised. As a result, it returned the funds to the account-holder. This 
left Mr Cs PayPal account  in deficit. PayPal also froze his account.
Mr C complained to PayPal. He asked for a reimbursement and he asked it to unblock his account.
PayPal refused to reimburse him. It said he wouldve  been entitled to a reimbursement if hed posted  
the watch  by trackable mail but he didnt. It said its policy doesnt  cover items,  which  are collected  or 
delivered in person. He was, therefore,  in breach of the policy.
As Mr C didnt agree  with PayPals  decision,  he asked  this service  to investigate.
Mr C said hes been the victim of a fraud too and its unfair he should be left out of pocket  for what he 
believed was a genuine  sale. He said the watch was expensive and he believed  it was safer  for it to 
be collected in person than sending it by post.  He said many buyers  and sellers on eBay do this. Hes 
sold many  things on eBay, which have been collected in person. And hes collected items too.
An investigator looked  into Mr Cs complaint and decided  to uphold it. She didnt think  it was fair and 
reasonable to deny  him a refund because:
trackable mail doesnt guarantee delivery  to the accountholder as anyone can sign
for delivery
there was nothing in the T&Cs  to say a safe and secure  delivery is excluded  from the policy
Mr C made sure to ask for proof of the buyers  identity
the asked for a signed receipt
it was an expensive watch and safer for the buyer to collect  it in person
Mr C is also a victim of fraud.
PayPal strongly disagreed with our investigators  assessment. In summary, it said Mr C was fully 
aware of the terms  and conditions of its seller protection policy and had breached it. Besides, there 
was no proof that the collection was safe and secure given the investigators own admission that the 
utility bill couldve  been a mock  up. 
Overall, it considered there were too many inconsistencies  in the view that it couldnt  be upheld.
Ref: DRN14375664PayPal has asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
The starting  position  is PayPals User Agreement. The relevant terms and conditions  of the User 
Agreement are set out below.
11.1 What is PayPal seller protection?
If you are the recipient of a payment made by a customer ("Payment Recipient"),
we may reimburse  you an amount for Claims,  Chargebacks, or Reversals  made against you based on 
the following reasons:
a. A Chargeback or Reversal was issued against you for the reason  of an
Unauthorised Payment  (except  for any Unauthorised  Payment initiated in an environment 
not hosted  by PayPal); or
b. A Chargeback or Claim was issued against you for the reason of Not Received
where PayPal  receives from you proof that the item was posted or delivered in accordance with the 
requirements set forth below
11.2 Availability of PayPal  seller protection
PayPal seller protection does not apply  to Claims,  Chargebacks for  items that you deliver or are 
picked up in person.
11.6 Eligibility Requirements
What are the eligibility requirements  for PayPal seller protection?
You must  meet all of these requirements  to be covered  
[]
c. For tangible items, post the item to the shipping  address  on the Transaction Details  page. 
If the item is delivered in person or if the Payment Recipient posts the item to a different 
address (for example, if the buyer  asks that you send to another address  on the basis that it is 
a work address  or a gift address) then you will not be eligible for re-imbursement under  the 
terms of the programme.
11.16 What is Proof of Delivery?
Proof of Delivery for tangible items means online  documentation from a postal company that includes 
all of the following:
a. A status  of delivered  (or equivalent) and the date of delivery.
b. The recipients address,  showing at least the city/county or postcode (or international 
equivalent).
11.10 What are examples  of items/transactions/cases that are not eligible for PayPal
seller protection?
b. Items that you deliver (or are picked up) in person (except for items for which you
received payment through the PayPal  Location Based  Payments Functionality).
Im sorry to set out so many  clauses in this decision. I realise it makes reading  the decision difficult 
but I think it helps to show  how Ive reached my decision.
These clauses make  it clear  that a seller is not protected where items are delivered or picked up in 
person. And I dont think the User  Agreement could make it any clearer.
Mr C accepted these terms and conditions  when  he registered  for a PayPal account. He might not 
have read the User  Agreement in full but Im afraid he is treated as having  knowledge of the terms 
and conditions.  Besides, its not as if the exclusions are hidden away.  They  are bold and clear.
Ref: DRN14375665Moreover, when PayPal  received the payment, it sent him a text message, which said:
This item is eligible for Seller Protection.
Don't forget  to:
Send the item to the shipping  address  below within 7 days. Please  note: items 
delivered in person or to a different address are not cover by Seller  Protection.
Use a trackable  proof of delivery.
I consider that Mr C was fully aware  of the seller protection policy  and he knew he had to send the 
item by trackable mail if he wanted the benefits of the policy.
However, Mr C didnt do this. He made a separate arrangement with the buyer  for collection in 
person. He may do this if he wants,  and I understand he didnt trust an expensive watch  to the post, 
but he does this at his own risk. The policy makes it clear he is not entitled to a reimbursement if the 
item is collected or delivered in person.
Our investigator thought it was fair and reasonable  to reimburse him, despite the terms of the seller 
protection policy. She argues that one of the objectives  behind the seller  protection  policy is making  
sure that items are delivered safely and securely  to the correct buyer or accountholder. She says 
trackable mail is one option but it isnt full proof. So, its fair and reasonable for us to consider other 
options, which  are capable of achieving  the same objective. 
I think  this argument could be advanced  on fair and reasonable grounds but only in rare cases. Im 
afraid, I dont  think this is such a case. I think  Mr C took only basic steps  to make sure hed delivered 
the watch  to the correct  buyer.
First, he consented to collection by the buyers  friend. There is always  a risk  and an obvious one  
that an intermediary will make off with the item.
Second, he accepted a utility bill as proof of the buyers identity. As our investigator
acknowledged, this could have been forged. Equally, it could be genuine  but stolen  from the persons 
home or refuse bin. This makes it unreliable on its own as proof of safe delivery to the buyer.
I appreciate Mr C didnt trust the post.  But trackable mail has its advantages. Proof of delivery  is 
provided by an independent third party organisation   not the individuals involved in the sale, where 
one might be deceiving the other.
Considering everything, I find that Mr C didnt comply with the seller protection policy and, as a result, 
he is not entitled  to a reimbursement. In some exceptional situations, it might be fair and reasonable 
to ask for a reimbursement where a seller can show that that an alternative delivery method was as 
good as trackable mail, even better.  However, I think the few steps taken by Mr C fell far short of 
showing safe and secure delivery to the buyer.
For these  reasons, I dont think its fair and reasonable  to ask PayPal to reimburse him.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN1437566