K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about Insure  The Box Limiteds (ITBL) service in connection with his 
motor insurance policy.
background
Mr S had a telematics (black box) motor policy administered by ITBL. He was unhappy with 
some of the information  the policy contained when it was due for renewal and complained.  
He was then unhappy with the time it took ITBL to respond to that complaint.  ITBL 
acknowledged it had taken too long to respond  and offered Mr S £25 compensation for the 
impact of that.
Mr S then changed his car and was again  unhappy  with ITBLs service and response  to his 
correspondence. ITBL  eventually cancelled Mr S policy. Mr S didn't think  ITBL  had dealt 
with him fairly and brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 October  2019.  For ease  Ive copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill partly  uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr S has made a number of details points.  Ive considered  
everything hes said carefully but in this decision I will focus on what I see as the key 
outstanding points following our adjudicators assessment of the complaint.
It will also help if I explain that ITBL is an insurance intermediary. That means  that it sells 
insurance policies  and may help to administer those. But it doesn't  actually provide the 
insurance cover. That is provided by an insurer (the insurer) which  is a separate  business to 
ITBL. So ITBL is not responsible for the actions of the insurer,  even where ITBL took those 
actions on the insurers behalf. So in this decision  I will focus on the actions ITBL is 
responsible for. If Mr S wishes to pursue any other complaint about the actions of the insurer 
he will need  to contact  our investigator  to set up the appropriate complaint.
the May 2013  claim
Mr S initially  applied for quotes online  and then bought his policy on the phone with ITBL. 
I've listened  to the recording of that call. During which Mr S confirmed the details hed 
provided online, including details of the non-fault driving incidents hed been  involved in. The 
dates he confirmed were  one in May 2013  and two in November 2013. He bought  the policy  
on the basis of the information hed given online and confirmed on the phone.
When Mr S policy  was due for renewal  he noted that the policy documents referred to him 
having been involved in a non-fault accident in May 2013. Mr S contacted  ITBL  and said he 
hadn't been in an accident in May 2013.  He asked if hed overpaid for the previous year. 
ITBL removed the May 2013 incident  from its file but that didn't change the renewal price the 
insurer charged. It then took several  months to get back  to Mr S to tell him that the insurer  
had confirmed that the premium for the previous years policy  also hadn't been  affected by 
the May 2013  non-fault claim. I agree it shouldn't have taken ITBL  so long to confirm  that 
information. And the delay was clearly a source  of distress and inconvenience for Mr S in the 
Ref: DRN13883452meantime. So to address that, I think it should  increase  the compensation payable  to Mr S to 
£100 in total.
For completeness I'll add that Mr S seems to think that he paid a higher premium while he 
was waiting for ITBL  to reply to him but thats  not the case. I've seen that ITBL sent him a 
revised insurance schedule which had the May 2013 claim removed. But the premium hadn't  
changed from the previous schedule which did include the May 2013 claim. So its clear that 
the May 2013  incident didn't affect  his premium either when he took out the policy or at 
renewal. And its not the case that Mr S overpaid  for his policy during the period  of ITBLs 
delay in responding to his concerns.
Mr S has also said ITBL  incorrectly added the May 2013 claim to a shared insurance 
database and that has affected the quotes he received from other  insurers. But thats not the 
case. The May 2013 claim  was added to the shared database by Mr S then insurer in 
May 2013. And that wasn't ITBL or the underwriter  of the policy  ITBL  administered. Also as 
indicated above,  when Mr S spoke to ITBL to buy the policy  he confirmed that hed had a 
non-fault incident in May 2013, which is what hed declared online when initially  looking for 
quotes. So ITBL  was only using the information Mr S provided. And I haven't  seen evidence 
beyond Mr S comments that anything ITBL  did affected quotes provided by any other 
insurer.
policy cancellation 
Mr S changed the car on his policy. Before doing so he asked for a quote  to change it. ITBL  
told him what the price  would be. But, after he bought the new car and added  it to the policy 
ITBL told him that as some of his circumstances had changed the insurer  would charge a 
premium higher than the earlier quote. Mr S didn't think that was right and raised  the matter 
with ITBL.
Mr S wasn't happy with the responses he received about the additional premium. But in the 
meantime ITBL told Mr S, on 14 March 2018, that hed need to have its black  box attached 
to his new car within 14 days or it would cancel his policy. Mr S didn't want the black  box 
fitted until hed had a response  he was happy with to his concerns about the reasons for the 
additional premium.  So he cancelled an appointment to have the black box installed. ITBL  
then twice told him that he would need  to have the black box installed by 29 March  2018 or it 
would cancel his policy. Mr S didn't have the black box installed and ITBL  cancelled his 
policy.
Mr S doesn't think that was fair as he was still disputing the additional premium.  But I've 
seen that ITBLs terms are clear  that Mr S would need to have a black  box fitted to his car 
within 14 days of arranging cover. And it told him that doing so wasn't  negotiable  and that if 
he didn't do it by 29 March 2018  it would cancel his policy. But Mr S didn't have the black  
box installed  by the deadline ITBL set. So, given that it was clear about what  the outcome 
would be in those  circumstances,  I think it was reasonable that ITBL cancelled  his policy.
Mr S said that after ITBL cancelled his policy  the police impounded his car as he drove it 
while uninsured. Mr S lost the car and incurred other charges. He thinks ITBL should 
compensate him for those  losses. But I don't think thats fair. I've said above  that I think  ITBL 
cancelled the policy fairly. It notified him that it had done so and it reminded Mr S that it was 
an offence to drive without insurance.  But it appears  Mr S did just that and drove  his car 
without arranging a new policy.  But that was his choice  alone and I haven't  seen that 
anything ITBL did forced him to drive while uninsured. So any consequences of that are for 
Mr S alone  to address.
Ref: DRN13883453charges from Mr S credit provider
Mr S thinks  that ITBL should  compensate  him £20 in fees charged  by the provider of his 
credit agreement. It might help if I explain that Mr S chose  to pay his premium in monthly  
instalments. In order to do that ITBL arranged credit  for him through  a credit provider. But 
that credit  provider is a separate business to ITBL. Mr S entered  into a separate contract 
with the credit provider.  And ITBL isn't responsible for fees and charges the credit  provider  
applies. So if Mr S wishes  to complain about  those he should put those complaints directly to 
the credit  provider.
developments
I said I would consider any comments or evidence that Mr S or ITBL wished to provide  by 
14 November 2019. Neither side replied by that date. Mr S sent an email on 20 November in 
which he said he would reply in the coming week. But he didnt do so and we told him he 
had until 4 December  2019 to reply.  Mr S didnt provide  any further comments  or evidence,  
neither did ITBL.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to partly uphold  
it. 
As neither Mr S nor ITBL  provided any comments that call my provisional decision into 
question I see no reason to change it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Insure The Box Limited 
to increase the compensation payable to Mr S to £100 in total.  It should  take the above 
action within  28 days of us telling it that Mr S has accepted my final decision. If it pays later 
than this it must also pay interest on the compensation  from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
1 If ITBL pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1388345