K821x#15the complaint
Mr T says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on him.
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. 
As a result of these IT problems, Mr T wasnt  able to access his account for four days. So  
Mr T initially made a complaint to TSB about this and the impact it had on him. The 
complaint then came to us and we told TSB to pay Mr T £150  in compensation for this. 
However, since the initial issues outlined above,  Mr T also faced further  issues  because of 
TSBs IT problems and so he brought another complaint. Mr T said his screen kept freezing 
and that he was getting ambiguous messages which made it unclear whether or not the 
payments he was making online  had gone through or not. Our adjudicator looked at the 
complaint and on 17 September 2018  issued an assessment saying TSB should  pay Mr T a 
further £50 for the trouble and upset caused  to him. However, Mr T had ongoing issues even  
in late September  2018 whereby he couldnt  make payments via internet banking  and on 5 
October 2018, TSB offered Mr T £150 in compensation for these issues.
However, since TSB offered Mr T £150, Mr T has continued to experience further problems.  
In particular Mr T has said that in October  2018 he wasnt able to log on to internet  banking 
as the system didnt  recognise his password. He tried multiple  times but wasnt  able to gain 
access. He then stopped  trying for a while and managed to gain access  later using the same  
password.  He then tried to pay some credit  card bills but was met with a message which  
was unclear as to whether  or not the payment had gone through. He was then disconnected 
and was concerned  about  his banking security  because  he didnt know if he was still in 
session. When Mr T raised this with TSB they said that the £150 offered  to him on 5 October 
2018 also recognised that Mr T may still have ongoing issues. Our adjudicator considered  
this and said that they thought TSBs offer of £150 was fair.
Mr T disagrees with this and said he should  be awarded further compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused to him because of the ongoing issues. He doesnt think that a previous 
award can or should be able to cover future issues. And he says TSB didnt tell him that the 
£150 would  cover future issues.  He has said that had he known that £150 was a full and final 
settlement for all future  issues he might face because  of TSBs IT problems he would not 
have accepted the offer. Since then Mr T has also told us he has had trouble with online 
access on 30 December 2018  when trying to log on to his account and pay bills  he wasnt  
able to make  payments.  He wants us to look into this too. So the case  has been passed to 
me to decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think the £150 already offered by TSB as compensation is a fair way to 
resolve this complaint as a whole. I will now explain why I have  reached  this outcome.
Ref: DRN10134742TSB dont  dispute that Mr T has faced the problems with his banking  that he says he has. 
The question is whether the amount offered by TSB is sufficient compensation to cover not 
only the problems  Mr T had experienced up until the end of September  2018 but also the 
issues he has faced since then (in October  and December  2018)  and that only became 
apparent after TSB sent their final response letter in October 2018.
Ive seen the letters issued by TSB in October 2018.  The letter  dated  5 October 2018 offered 
Mr T £150 in compensation for the problems he had faced. While this letter  acknowledges 
that some  consumers are still experiencing intermittent issues, I agree with Mr T that this 
letter doesnt  say that the offer takes into account  future issues. However, the letter dated 19 
October 2018 from TSB to Mr T says the £150  incorporated that some customers may 
experience further  issues and so TSB wouldnt be looking to provide a further  payment  for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to him.
Mr Ts main concern  is that the payment of £150 should only be for issues he has faced 
already but not for what might happen  in the future. He has provided  what  he considers to be 
analogous examples as to why this is not the way compensation  should be paid. He thinks  
he should be able to bring another  complaint  about the ongoing issues and should be 
awarded compensation for any further  issues that may come up.
I appreciate what Mr T has said but I dont  think it was wrong for TSB to say that their 
payment took into account future  issues in these particular circumstances. This is because 
TSB are aware that customers are experiencing ongoing intermittent  issues.  TSB arent 
aware exactly when  these problems might  come up so cant  warn customers about them. 
These issues are generally short lived and similar  in nature. The award  was higher than 
what our adjudicator had initially recommended.
 
For the purposes of my decision,  Ive considered what compensation I think  is fair and 
reasonable taking the complaint as a whole rather than adding up individual  errors. Ive 
taken into account  everything Mr T has told us including the ongoing nature of these issues, 
the worries Mr T had in not knowing whether or not his banking security had been  
compromised, the inconvenience of not being  able to log on when he needed to and the 
frustration he faced  when  his screen  kept freezing.  Ive also taken into account  the fact that 
Mr T didnt  know  whether payments had been made  or not and the subsequent  checks he 
had to make. And in respect of the 30 December 2018 issue,  I note that it was resolved 
relatively quickly and that Mr T didnt  lose out as a result. Fortunately Mr T didnt have 
resultant problems such as financial distress  or fraud on his account. So having taken 
everything into consideration,  I think £150  is fair and reasonable compensation in the 
particular circumstances  of this case.
Mr T has been  made aware  clearly that some customers are experiencing ongoing 
intermittent issues. These  issues are unlikely to result  in further compensation if there  has 
been no or minimal  impact.  As mentioned above  TSB dont know when these issues might 
arise. So, bearing this in mind, Mr T may wish to consider  whether his banking needs  are 
being met. I dont say that Mr T cant make  further  complaints about  ongoing issues  but 
whether or not he is awarded further  compensation depends on the nature  of the issues  he 
is facing and the impact  it has on him as well as what he has done  to try and mitigate the 
impact on him. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN10134743For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ts complaint to the extent set out above.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by paying Mr T £150 in compensation if they havent 
done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1013474