K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about Allianz Insurance  Plc. 
background
Mr and Mrs M made a claim following a fire at a property they owned. This was eventually 
settled by a cash  settlement,  but following this Allianz have declined to provide further cover 
for the property. Mr and Mrs M didnt think this was fair, so they complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter, but didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs 
M asked for that to be reviewed, so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too wont be upholding the complaint, Ill explain why. 
It is clear that a cash settlement was made here at the request of Mr and Mrs M, and enough 
time was given to that so Mr and Mrs M could make  an informed  decision  about what  they 
were doing.  So, although I appreciate it isnt a part of their complaint  as such, I am not going 
to reconsider the cash settlement  element  of the claim. 
I do note that Mr and Mrs M consider the whole of the matter was mis-managed and left 
them without adequate funds to purchase a new property. However it was they who 
accepted the cash  settlement which presumably they could use to repair the property, or 
alternatively add to monies obtained from selling the damaged  property site and buy a new 
property then. As above I dont think I can go back and dispute the cash  settlement Mr and 
Mrs M negotiated and accepted. 
Turning to the lack of ongoing cover I cant see that I should force  Allianz to provide  this. The 
building is clearly damaged post fire so presents a very different risk to that before the fire, 
and it isnt for me to say what an insurer should provide cover  for or not in such  
circumstances. 
If Allianz had withdrawn cover immediately  and so left Mr and Mrs M in a difficult  situation I 
may have  been  inclined to make  an award.  But, the renewal cover  was refused some  5 
months after the claim, so Mr and Mrs M did have that 5 months to consider what cover they 
might want  going forward  from the renewal  date. Also I cant  see that 5 months  before 
renewal that cover wouldnt be granted as Mr and Mrs M could have arranged for substantial 
repair work to be done on the property, so Allianz may have given cover, although  this didnt 
happen Allianz couldnt be sure of that. So I dont agree that Allianz could have  advised  
them earlier that cover  was going to be declined. 
There are also a number  of other issues I wish to comment on here.  
Mr and Mrs M have  made enquires as to whether I have the full file on this case. I only have 
what they and Allianz  have  sent me, and obviously I cant know if that is everything.  
However, I did have the adjudicator contact Mr and Mrs M inviting them to send any 
Ref: DRN12328852additional information they wished  to, as nothing has been  received I assume  they have 
nothing to add. 
Mr and Mrs M also raised the issue that other  insurers  have charged  them more since the 
claim event  and renewal refusal.  That must be a matter between  Mr and Mrs M and the 
other insurers. I cant hold Allianz  liable  for that as I havent found that Allianz  did anything 
wrong here.  
my final decision
I make  no award against Allianz Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1232885