K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that a car she has been  financing through  an agreement with 
Close Brothers limited (Close Brothers) has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Miss S has been represented by her father  throughout this complaint but for ease I will refer 
to Miss S throughout.
Miss S took receipt of a used car in February  2018.  She financed  the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.  At the point of supply the car was about 
seven years old and had already completed about 60,000 miles.
Miss S had problems with the car. The following table  summarises those issues:
Date Issue Action
April 2018 Electronic Power Control (EPC) 
and Engine Management Light 
(EML) illuminatedspark plugs changed
26 April 2018 Miss S reports reoccurrence  of 
EPC and EML faultdealership want  the 
car returned to them 
but Miss S is away 
6 May 2018 further issues with EPC and EML
18 June 2018 Miss S returns car to the dealership 
for EPC and EML problemselectric wires  are 
sprayed
4 September 
2018EPC and EML problem again dealership dont reply  
to 
Miss Ss text
14 September 
2018Miss S arranges a service and the 
garage completing it advise that the 
timing chain needs replacing  and 
that it shouldnt  at only 67,000 
miles. dealership offer £200 
towards repair. 
Late March 
2019 engine stripped and catastrophic 
damage identified.  Mechanics  say 
this is due to car being remapped 
before Miss S took receipt of it.
Close Brothers suggested they split the cost of the repair three ways between themselves, 
the dealership  and Miss S. But Miss S was dissatisfied with their response and she therefore 
referred her complaint  to this service.
Our investigator thought there was evidence of a fault with the car from early  in the 
agreement. He thought  the dealership had clearly  not completed adequate repairs  and noted 
that theyd only replaced the spark plugs and sprayed the electrical wiring. He thought 
Miss S should have  expected a more thorough investigation into faults that caused the EML 
and EPC to illuminate, as he thought it reasonable to suggest  these  could be signs  of 
Ref: DRN19570702significant problems  with the car. He noted that Close  Brothers system notes confirmed that, 
the dealership  the car had now been referred  to, had said:
the EPC intermittent illumination could be related to a timing  chain fault  and that theyd 
added the customer has provided enough evidence to suggest an ongoing  issue  with 
intermittent engine fault (sic) and we have evidence of the fault being in the first two 
months, it may have  not been addressed correctly  by the dealer.
He thought Miss Ss complaint should  be upheld and her agreement ended with nothing 
further to pay. He said Close Brothers should refund  the deposit and refund any payments 
made since November  2018 as he said it was clear Miss S had no use of the car from that 
point. He thought Close Brothers should  pay her £250 to compensate  her for the distress 
and inconvenience  shed experienced and that they should also refund the money shed 
paid to have the fault diagnosed;  to hire a replacement car and for breakdown  charges. He 
calculated these to be £673.17. He also noted that Miss S had made  a bulk payment 
towards her account in September 2018.  He thought  the effect of that should be unwound  
and a refund  should be made  to Miss S with interest.
Close Brothers didnt  respond  to the investigators  view but Miss S did. She explained that 
shed been asked to pay storage and repair costs by the dealership  where the car was now 
being stored and she wanted those considered in any redress.  She also explained that shed 
continued to make payments towards  the agreement whilst  she hadnt had use of the car 
and she therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Close  Brothers so please let 
me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Close Brother, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss S. The car 
here was around  seven  years old and had travelled about 60,000 miles.
Ref: DRN19570703I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right. 
But Close Brothers  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for 
its condition at the point of supply  they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Im persuaded that there is evidence this car was most probably faulty when supplied. I say 
that because:
Miss S complained of problems with the EPC and EML after only a couple of months;
a mechanic, from a dealership specialising in Miss Ss make  of car, has suggested  
the EPC warning was related to the timing chain issue;
the inspection  and work thats now been completed suggests the car had been 
mapped and that was the cause of the problem. I think its unlikely Miss S would 
have remapped the car as, if she had done, I think she would have been unlikely to 
have pursued her complaint so vigorously;
I think, as the mechanic clearly did, that a timing  chain failure at only 67,000  miles is 
premature.
The relevant  legislation  allows Close Brothers an opportunity to repair a fault that is present 
at inception of the finance  agreement.  I think they had that opportunity  in late April 2018  but 
repairs failed so they should now allow Miss S to reject  the car. 
Close Brothers should refund Miss Ss deposit and add interest  to that refund as Miss S has 
been deprived of the money  whilst shes been financing  an unsatisfactory  vehicle.
Its clear Miss S has been inconvenienced by matters.  Shes  had to take the car back to the 
dealership on several  occasions and theyve not been supportive of her requests to have a 
more local garage  look into the problems shes been  experiencing. Shes  also had to pursue 
her complaint through  this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier.  So I think  
Close Brothers should compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced and, in the circumstances, I think a payment of £250 would be reasonable.
Miss S has had no use of the car since November 2018 but has continued  to make 
payments to her agreement. These payments should therefore  be refunded by Close 
Brothers with interest. If any overpayments have been made Close  Brothers should refund 
them but they may retain monthly  instalments from the onset of the agreement  until,  but not 
including, November 2018.
They should  also refund  any consequential costs that Miss S incurred as a result of the 
problem with the car. Ive considered the receipts  Miss S has provided for a hire car, fault 
diagnosis and breakdown costs. They total £673.17  and I think it would be fair for 
Close Brothers to refund  them.
Miss Ss car has been left at a dealership since about the end of March  2019. Im advised 
that the dealership are asking her to pay storage costs for the car and that theres  a bill of 
£300 for the work  completed. These appear  to be costs that are related to the unresolved 
problem with the timing  chain  and Im therefore asking Close Brothers  to pay them if Miss S 
can provide them with the invoices.
Ref: DRN19570704I am aware  of additional aspects of Miss Ss complaint  that relate to, for instance,  a warranty 
that wasnt registered; the provision of fault codes from the dealership  and concerns the car 
was mis-sold because Miss S had not been advised it had been mapped. Ive not considered  
these in any detail  as Ive supported Miss Ss complaint and I dont think  the redress would 
have been any different  if Id found  evidence to support these claims as well.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited  to:
end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss S;
refund  all payments  made to the agreement. Close Brothers may retain monthly 
instalments from the onset of the agreement  until, but not including,  November 2018. 
They should  add 8% simple interest per annum to this refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports that may have been  made  to Miss Ss credit file in 
relation to this issue;
pay Miss S £250 to compensate  her for the distress and inconvenience  shes  
experienced;
refund  £673.17  of diagnostic; car hire and breakdown expenses Miss S has had to 
pay as a consequence of the problems shes experienced. 
pay the storage  costs  and repair/investigation costs that have been incurred since  
the car was referred to the motor centre in 2019. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1957070