K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  was mis-sold as no checks  were  carried out before 
supply. He further complains that the car was not fit for purpose as the engine  failed  within a 
year of him acquiring  it.
background
Mr D entered into a HPA with BMW  FS in June 2016 to acquire a used car. He says that the 
car was mis-sold.  He is further concerned the car was not fit for purpose given when the 
engine failed  and that the possible  reason  for failure  was a lack of servicing before 
acquisition.
Mr D says that when he acquired the car the paperwork provided showed  that pre-delivery 
checks had been  carried out but that this was later found to not be true. He says that 
following acquisition he asked for the service  history of the car and was provided details. He 
says he took this to be correct and acquired  a third party warranty. However when an issue 
arose and he tried to claim under the warranty he was told the car did not have a full service  
history.  
Mr D says that the cars engine should  not have failed within  a year of him acquiring the car. 
He had an inspection  report  carried out on the car which he says noted the engine damage 
was due to missed services prior to his acquisition. 
BMW FS says that Mr D raised issues with his car in 2016 and that a final response was 
issued in November  2016. Mr D was sent a cheque for £500 to cover the costs he had 
incurred at that time. 
In regard to the service  history it says that it contacted the dealer  which  said that it had not 
confirmed that the car had a full service history at the point of supply. It said that the dealer 
checked the MOT was valid and whether the next service was due. It says that the 
information Mr D was provided with about the service history  of the car was given by the 
manufacturer and not from BMW FS and so it was not liable for this. 
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She did not find that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply. She did not find that Mr D had been  given  
incorrect information about the cars service history  by the dealer and did not think that 
BMW FS was responsible for the information Mr D had been  provided with by another party 
at a later date. She also said that the evidence suggested Mr D had been provided with the 
service book at the point  of supply and this had been misplaced.
Mr D did not accept our investigators  view.  He felt that the information he provided about the 
pre-delivery checks had not been  considered and further that as the pre-delivery checks 
formed part of the contract and these didnt take place, his HPA was not valid. He also noted  
that the dates  our investigator had included  in her review related to dates the car had been  
to the garage  for repairs for issues such as a change of bulb or MOT  and not a service  
history.
Mr D also wanted it noted that he had to have a spring replaced within a couple  of months of 
acquiring the car and that there were then two drive shaft failures.
Ref: DRN10928532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr D acquired  a used car through a HPA with BMW FS. Under the regulations BMW  FS is 
liable if the car was not of satisfactory quality or not fit for purpose at the point of supply.  It 
can also be liable if the car was misrepresented  to Mr D.
Mr D experienced issues  with his car within the first six months. He contacted BMW  FS and 
explained the issues and the problems he was having getting these resolved by the dealer. 
BMW FS sent a final response letter in regard to these  issues  dated 11 November 2016. It 
agreed to reimburse  Mr D for the costs  he had incurred  and to round up the figure to £500 to 
reflect the experience he had. Mr D accepted this offer.  
In mid 2017,  Mr Ds car had an issue with the engine. He tried to make a claim under the 
warranty he had acquired but this was not accepted as the car did not have  a full service  
history. Because of this Mr D said that his car was mis-sold.
In order for me to say that the car was mis-sold I would need to be satisfied that Mr D had 
been provided incorrect information  a the point of supply  which  had induced him to enter into 
the agreements. Based  on what I have seen  I do not find I can safely say this.
The dealer  has said that Mr D was not told that there was a full service  history.  I was not 
present and so I cannot say what Mr D was told but I find I would need more  evidence of this 
to support that a misrepresentation had occurred.
I have seen a message  Mr D sent saying he had lost the cars service  book and asking for 
service information. The manufacturer  then provided  a list of dates and garages that the car 
had visited. Mr D says he relied  on this as being the service history  but it was in fact just a 
list of visits to the garage for issues such as MOT or changing a bulb. I understand that Mr D 
is upset by the information  he received and its lack of clarity  regarding what  it related to. But 
as this was not provided by BMW FS or the dealer I cannot hold BMW FS responsible  for 
this. As it appears the service book  was provided  date of supply  I would have expected this 
to have contained the information Mr D needed.
Mr D has challenged the validity  of his HPA valid. It is not my role to say whether any 
agreement is legally  enforceable,  that is for the courts, however  I can consider whether Mr D 
was mis-sold the car on the basis of the information  he was provided.
Mr D has provided a copy of a document from the dealer which has a box ticked next to the 
statement Were you made aware of the per-delivery  inspection  content and accept that this 
forms part of the contract  of sale. The document  is dated June 2016  suggesting  it was 
provided to Mr D at the point of supply although I note it is not signed by Mr D. Given  the 
comment says Were  you made  aware of the inspection  content I would have thought  that 
had Mr D been concerned about  the pre-delivery  inspection  and relied  on this document he 
would have asked  to see the inspection  report at that time if he hadnt been  made  aware of 
its content. 
Ref: DRN10928533It appears from the information provided  by the dealer that limited  checks  took place in 
regard to the MOT and whether a service was due. In the notes provided by BMW FS it says 
that Mr D insisted on taking delivery  before the full checks could be completed.  
On balance, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that a misrepresentation ahs 
taken place.
Mr D has also said that the car shouldnt  have suffered the issues  it did within  the first year. 
He has also referred to the comments in the inspection report  about a lack of service history. 
I have considered the issue  of quality that Mr D has raised but I do not find that I have 
enough to say that the car was not of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply.
Mr D acquired  a car in 2016 that was over seven years old and had been driven over 56,000 
miles. The issue with the engine did not occur until around a year after acquisition.  I have 
seen a copy of an estimate to repair the issue dated  July 2017 which shows a mileage of 
over 65,500. Based on this Mr D was able to drive around 9,000 miles before the issue  
occurred.  
I have considered the comments  in the inspection report. This says that the issue with the 
engine was most likely caused by the car being driven on depleted oil at some  point or 
possibly due to a lack of servicing. It further  says that the issue  would be noticeable in the 
form of a knocking noise. 
The inspection report suggests  the issues would have bene present at the point of supply. 
However it also notes that he car had been  driven  around 1,000 miles and been on cover for 
43 days. This is not correct as Mr D had the car for around a year and had driven around 
9,000 miles. Given the time that had passed and the mileage covered I find it more likely 
than not that the fault was not present at the point of supply. Had it been present at 
acquisition I would have  expected the knocking noise, or other issues, to have been  
noticeable sooner.
While there  is a comment about a lack of servicing, the report  also suggests that the car may 
have been driven  with depleted oil. Given the time that Mr D had the car I cannot safely  
conclude that the issues were  present  before supply.
I know my decision will be upsetting  for Mr D and I can understand why he is upset with 
issue his car has experienced. But on balance, I do not find that I have enough evidence  to 
uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1092853