K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 2001 to 
protect a mortgage. Mrs M says Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs M case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
YBS had to make  Mrs M aware  that the PPI policies were optional  and gain her consent 
before adding the policies  to her mortgages. Mrs M has told us she wasnt  aware she had 
PPI. I cant  know  for certain what  was said at the time Mrs M applied  for the PPI policies, but 
YBS has provided a copy of the available  paperwork. For both policies Mrs M completed 
separate application forms from her mortgage application to apply for the policy. She signed 
in agreement to take the PPI separately to agreeing with the mortgage  itself. So I think YBS 
made it clear  that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out although 
I can understand why she may not remember this.
YBS didnt recommend the PPI policies to Mrs M, so it didnt have  to check if they were right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take out the policies  knowing the other means  she had of 
making her repayments which included sick pay, savings and help from her parents. But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mrs Ms sick pay and allowed her to keep  her savings 
in place to be used towards  any other  expenses she may have had. And while  Mrs Ms 
parents would have  wanted to help, their ability to would  have been  dependent  on their 
circumstances at the time which  could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time she took out the policies it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so 
it would  have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN12423592But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
The PPI policy Mrs M took out in March 2001  was attached to a mortgage that ended in 
December 2002.  So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship 
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply to this 
policy.
For the PPI policy  Mrs M took out in October  2001 YBS will pay back to Mrs M some of the 
cost of the PPI because:
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  YBS didnt tell Mrs M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including that she had reason  to  claim under 
the policy when  she was off work and. But as I dont think the policy  was mis-sold  this 
doesnt change  my decision. If Mrs M has any queries about  attempting  a retrospective  claim 
she can contact the insurer directly about this.
Mrs M has also said YBS told her several times  she didnt have PPI on her mortgages. While 
this may be the case it can be difficult for businesses to locate PPI linked to historic  
agreements, and while this would have  been  inconvenient for Mrs M I dont think this is 
unusual, and it doesnt change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium for the sale of the policy taken out in October  2001. YBS should 
also pay back to Mrs M any extra interest she paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mrs M the extra she paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also pay Mrs M 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN12423593But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mrs M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium for the sale of the policy  in 
October 2001. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2019
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1242359