K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that following  a leak in their property Legal  & General Insurance  
Limited (L&G) caused delays in dealing with the claim, they were unsympathetic and the 
cash settlement offered  was inadequate.
background
Mr and Mrs H contacted  L&G to make a claim under their building insurance after a leak 
damaged their kitchen  and hall. They  had to move out over Christmas,  as the house was 
uninhabitable. They agreed with L&G their son would deal with the claim for them.
Following an inspection  by the loss adjuster and a check for asbestos,  which  came back  
clear, a new inspection  was made to check for water  penetration and dehumidifiers were  
installed. The kitchen  was then stripped out revealing the need for a second asbestos check  
to a chimney flue. After seven weeks, the property dried out and the work of restoring the 
kitchen started.
Mr and Mrs H say they were unhappy  with the standard of work proposed by L&Gs 
nominated building contractor so they decided to appoint their own builder and seek a cash  
settlement from L&G.
L&G sent a cash  settlement  at the end of March. During this time, Mr and Mrs H were  
without cooking  facilities. So L&G paid them a Disturbance Allowance (DA).
Following a complaint  to L&G by Mr and Mrs Hs son, regarding  the service received during 
the claim,  L&G accepted there  had been delays in receiving the cash  settlement and the DA. 
In recognition of this L&G agreed to pay Mr and Mrs H £100  in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to our service because  they were unhappy with delays and the 
way the claim was being dealt with. Our investigator  thought L&G had done  nothing wrong 
and there  had been no delay caused  by the surveyors first visit. Our investigator said that 
Mr and Mrs H should be paid DA for longer,  as they were without kitchen  facilities  until 
17 April 2018.
L&G didnt agree, it said the DA should only be paid until the 21 March 2018,  which  is how 
long L&G think it would  have taken its contractors to finish  the work. L&G also said our 
service didnt have  jurisdiction to look at the complaint relating to the lack of kitchen facilities.
The matter  has come to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
L&G has said our service  has no jurisdiction  to decide the complaint about the lack of 
cooking facilities because  this was not part of the original complaint and should be treated as 
Ref: DRN18569722a separate complaint. It also says the point was raised  after the Final Response  Letter  
(FRL). The FRL was issued on 7 March 2018.  
I have considered whether the lack of cooking  facilities is a new complaint. I dont think that it 
is because it arises  from the existing complaint and is not an unrelated  point and so should  
be treated as part of the original complaint. I say this because  the original complaint is about  
flooding in a kitchen and the damage affected the whole kitchen including  the cooking 
facilities. In any case I also think the lack of cooking  facilities was mentioned  early  on in the 
complaint before the FRL was issued. I say this because Mr Hs son called L&G on the 
29 January 2018  and said Mr and Mrs H were  without  cooking facilities.  So I think  that L&G 
knew of the lack of cooking facilities from that date. 
L&G were  aware of this part of the complaint for over eight  weeks  and had the opportunity to 
investigate it. 
As I think  that our service does have jurisdiction  to decide the issue  of the lack of cooking  
facilities, I have considered all aspects of the complaint.
Delay
I have considered whether the claim could  have been progressed  more quickly. Looking 
through the file I can see the claim progressed  with no major delays. I can see the L&G 
surveyor brought his site visit forward by four days at the start of the claim.
But I would say there was some  delay in agreeing who would do the stripping out of the 
kitchen and hallway  wall. Mr and Mrs H wanted to get their own contractor and the quote 
took ten days to be sent to L&G. The surveyor didnt agree  the quote  because it was too 
expensive. Eventually  Mr and Mrs H decided  to pay for the extra cost out of their own pocket 
and use their own contractors The stripping  out work was completed on the 
12 February 2018. The strip out took nearly  a month to arrange and complete but I dont 
think the delay  was because of anything  L&G did or didnt do.
I have also considered whether the first asbestos check  took too long and thereby delayed 
the dehumidifiers being installed.  I wondered  this because the results of the first asbestos 
test took much longer to come back than the second  asbestos test. Having looked at the 
evidence I can see at the time of the first asbestos test there was a bank holiday and two 
weekends and this accounts for the extra days. So on balance  I dont  think the way L&G 
processed the first asbestos test delayed the claim and I dont think  LG did anything wrong.
Considering the evidence  I think any delay  was due to Mr and Mrs H choosing  to use their 
own contractors. They needed  to get quotes and the quote needing to be approved.  So on 
balance I think L&G did nothing wrong and the claim progressed at a reasonable pace.
Cash Settlement amount
Mr and Mrs H say the amount they have been paid as a cash settlement has been reduced 
because of the surveyors original inspection, which they consider was inadequate.
I accept Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with what they experienced as an uncaring attitude to 
their situation. I have looked  at the surveyor case notes and I have seen that it appointed a 
company with a drying team, which I will refer to as P, to assess  the damage to the property  
and provide dehumidifiers. I have also seen  the report from P, which outlines the damage in 
Ref: DRN18569723the property. Because of this, I dont  think the surveyors  original comments to Mr and Mrs H 
materially affected the assessment of the damage to the property or the subsequent cash 
settlement. The report  from P accurately assessed  the extent of the damage  to the property 
and Mr and Mrs H agreed with it. But I recognise  the surveyors  attitude may have been 
unhelpful considering the stress of the situation  Mr and Mrs H found themselves in and 
Mrs Hs health issues.
Mr and Mrs H say the cash settlement is inadequate. I have looked at the terms of the policy  
which say a cash settlement amount would not exceed the discounted  amount L&G would 
have paid their supplier.  The total cost of the works was £6600 and L&G paid £3500  to settle 
the claim.  Considering the policy terms I think L&G were entitled to pay the reduced amount.
Mr and Mrs H also say the way the work was quoted for would not have put them  back in the 
position they were  in before the incident. This is why they went  with their own contractors. 
There is evidence Mr and Mrs Hs son initially agreed the work should  be carried out by 
L&Gs contractors; but then they decided  to accept a cash settlement instead.  Since  they 
were initially  happy  to accept L&Gs contractors, this suggests its unlikely they had very 
serious concerns  about the standard  of the work which would be carried out. 
When Mr and Mrs H changed their mind  and decided to get their own contractor to do the 
work, their son said he just wants  his parents to get back  to normal.  I think  its more likely  
Mr and Mrs H accepted  the cash offer because it meant they would be in control of the work 
and would be using  builders they knew. And not because they couldnt trust the standard of 
work of the L&G contractors.
Disturbance allowance
Disturbance allowance was paid to cover  the disturbance to Mr and Mrs H of being without 
cooking facilities. Mr and Mrs H have received DA to cover  them  until the 8 March 2018.  
L&G has said they will pay for DA until the date when it estimates its contractors would  have 
finished the work. They dont think they should pay for the delay  caused  by using 
Mr and Mrs Hs own builders. Our investigator has said DA should  be paid up to the 17 April 
2018 when the cooker  was fitted  and the disturbance ceased. 
DA is payable to cover the extra food costs as a result of the lack of kitchen facilities. I 
accept Mr and Mrs H used their own contractors  to do the fitting work but there is no 
evidence that these contractors delayed the work. The work proceeded at a reasonable pace 
and the cooker  was fitted on the 17 April 2018.  So I think  L&G should pay Mr and Mrs H DA 
up until 17 April 2018. They should also pay interest  for the delayed  DA payment at 8% 
simple. 
Distress and Inconvenience
I have considered the impact on Mr and Mrs H. I am aware Mrs H had recently  had serious 
health issues. When considering the impact I must separate out the upset and 
inconvenience of having a leak in the kitchen, which is something  L&G is not responsible  for 
and the impact caused by the way the claim was handled following the incident,  which  L&G 
is responsible for.
I have seen from the L&G file it was aware  of Mrs H health issues  and wanted the claim to 
progress quickly and efficiently. Mr and Mrs Hs son complained  about  the delays in 
Ref: DRN18569724processing the claim. L&G have paid £100 in compensation following this complaint to cover 
the delay in receiving the DA payments and the settlement cheque.
I will not be asking L&G to increase their compensation. In making  my decision I have 
considered L&G did not cause any delays  and the claim progressed  at a reasonable pace. I 
have also considered Mr and Mrs Hs son dealt with the entire  claim for them  and so the 
stress of handling the claim and dealing with the contractors and L&G fell on him. 
Considering all this, I think £100 offered by L&G in compensation is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. I dont doubt Mr and Mrs H were  stressed, upset and inconvenienced  by 
their kitchen and hallway flooding two days before Christmas and having  their lives disrupted 
for five or more months. But this upset was caused by the escape  of water and L&G were 
not responsible  for it. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint.
Legal & General Insurance Limited  should pay Mr and Mrs H Disturbance Allowance from 
6 March to 17 April together with interest  at 8% simple from 17 April to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1856972