K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Newcastle Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage in 1993.  
In 1997, they took out PPI which protected their monthly mortgage repayments  if Mr W 
couldnt work as a result of accident or sickness. 
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt  think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs W 
disagree, and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats  happened. They  mainly  say they 
feel that the PPI was added without their knowledge or consent.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not surprising,  given how long ago this sale happened, that the original paperwork isnt 
still available. I appreciate this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs W. But I wouldnt expect either  
Newcastle Building  Society or Mr and Mrs W to have kept this. 
I have to look at the available  information  and decide what  I think is most likely  making 
reasonable assumptions where necessary. What Mr and Mrs W say isnt enough on its own 
for me to be able to uphold their complaint.  
Although Newcastle Building  Society  couldnt  provide any documents from the sale, its 
records show that Mr and Mrs W took out PPI to protect their mortgage monthly repayments 
some years after their mortgage was set up. 
This means  that Mr and Mrs W wouldve had to fill in a separate  application form and set up 
new payment arrangements to take out PPI. Newcastle Building  Society  has told us that 
around this time it sent mailshots to mortgage customers  who didnt have PPI to remind 
them that they could protect  their mortgage by taking out this insurance. And it followed  the 
mailing up with a phone call to see if cover  was required.
It appears Mr and Mrs W mustve decided  they wanted the PPI. I say this because  
Newcastle Building  Society sent them a welcome letter  shortly afterwards setting out details 
of the cover.  Mr and Mrs W couldve queried  the PPI then if this wasnt something they 
wanted. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened.
I can completely understand if Mr and Mrs W have  now forgotten these details. But I think 
they wouldve  understood at the time that it was up to them to apply for cover if they wanted 
to have it. They wouldve  known that, because they had already  set up their mortgage some 
years earlier without taking out PPI. 
Ref: DRN12653062Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Ws home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. PPI provided a dependable means of protecting their mortgage  repayments. So, I can 
see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. 
On balance, based on all the information  Ive seen, I think  its likely  that Mr and Mrs W 
decided they wanted to protect their home by taking out PPI to cover  them  if Mr W couldnt  
work due to accident and sickness and it was added to their mortgage  account at their 
request. 
Although Mr and Mrs W received the PPI application  through the post it looks as if they 
mightve also spoken to an advisor if they received a follow up phone  call. So as the 
circumstances arent  very clear, Im going to treat their complaint  as an advised  sale.  This 
gives their complaint the best chance  of succeeding because it means that as well as giving  
them clear  information,  the advisor  had to take reasonable  steps  to make sure any PPI 
recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs W.
Mr W was eligible for the policy. Ive taken into account what Mr W told us about his sick pay 
arrangements at work. But the policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months   
so this was longer than he couldve depended on getting sick pay through work. And the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits. So I think  PPI couldve provided a 
useful benefit  at a difficult  time  especially if Mr and Mrs W mightve  had extra costs if Mr W 
had an illness or disability. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs W wouldve always had savings  they could rely on if theyd 
needed to make a claim. PPI wouldve covered their mortgage for longer than the amount of 
savings theyve mentioned wouldve lasted if theyd  had to use these to make  their monthly 
repayments.
Looking at all the information Ive seen,  and thinking  about  their circumstances, I think  
Mr and Mrs W couldve benefitted from having the policy and a PPI recommendation (if there 
was one) wouldve been suitable.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if Mr W was affected 
by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits when he took out PPI. So, I dont 
think having more  information about  things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected 
Mr and Mrs Ws decision to take out accident and sickness cover  for Mr W. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs W when they applied for the 
policy, but it seems to have been affordable for them.  I say this because  they took out the 
PPI when they didnt have  to. And they wouldve had to set up separate  payment 
arrangements to cover the cost of the monthly premiums  when  they did this. So it looks like 
they were happy  to pay for the PPI at the time.  Mr and Mrs W couldve  cancelled the policy  
at any time without extra cost if their circumstances changed or they no longer wanted  to pay 
for it. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs W still wouldve decided  to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as 
it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think  better information 
wouldve put Mr and Mrs W off buying the PPI.
Ref: DRN12653063So I dont  find that Mr and Mrs W have lost out as a result of anything Newcastle Building 
Society did wrong. This means it doesnt need  to do anything  to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1265306