K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited gave poor service under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
Mrs H had a policy to cover home  emergencies  including plumbing and drainage  and kitchen 
appliances. Where  I refer to British  Gas I refer to the insurance company of that name and I 
include its plumbing and drainage company, its engineers  and others for whose actions I 
hold the insurer  responsible.
Mrs H has a house where the front door opens  onto a space at the foot of the stairs. Above 
that space is an upstairs  bathroom. She called  British Gas for help with a leak of water from 
the bathroom. She complained that British Gas took several visits to fix the leak, so it caused 
further damage to what was below.
Mrs H also complained that British Gas should  pay for a new fridge.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought it 
fair that British Gas had offered to contribute 30% towards replacing the fridge.  As regards 
the leak, the investigator thought that British Gas was responsible  for the damage that 
occurred to Mrs Hs property. The investigator  recommended that British Gas should:
1.pay the full cost to repair the ceiling, the wallpaper  on the staircase,  and the hallway; 
and 
2.pay to replace the carpet on the stairs;  and
3.pay to replace the water- damaged laminate  flooring in the hallway, landing and 
bedroom that resulted from this leak. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs H 
and to British  Gas on 28 March 2019.  I summarise my findings:
The Fridge
British Gas offered  Mrs H a 30% contribution towards the cost of a new fridge. I find that fair 
and reasonable in line with the policy terms. 
The Leak
I kept in mind my findings about the condition of Mrs Hs home before she contacted British 
Gas. And I kept in mind that she hadnt shown what damage happened when.
I didnt find it fair and reasonable to direct  British Gas to pay compensation on the basis  of 
new for old.
Ref: DRN15300442Overall I thought its offer of £1,290.00 was more  than fair and reasonable. I was minded to 
direct British Gas to honour  that offer.
Subject to any further information from Mrs H or from British Gas, my provisional  decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part. I intended  to direct British  Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs H £1,290.00  for damage to her home in December 2017.
British Gas hasnt  responded to the provisional decision.
Mrs H disagreed with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that British  Gas 
damaged her flooring. She has sent us some  more photographic evidence  and copies of job 
sheets.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to look at whether  Mrs H was a policy holder on her own or jointly  with someone else. 
If she were a joint policy holder then we would ask whether the other  policy holder can join in 
the complaint.  The renewal letter  from December  2016 says there was a joint policy holder. 
But the British  Gas work history drops his name  from April 2017.  So  when Mrs H had 
problems later in 2017  - I dont think he was a joint policy  holder. I dont know  the 
circumstances surrounding  that. I apologise to Mrs H that Ive had to mention it. 
The Fridge
The terms of the policy say British Gas will repair a kitchen appliance or - if it will cost less to 
replace it - make a contribution towards the cost of a new appliance. The contribution  will be 
100% if the appliance was less than three  years old  otherwise it will be 30%.
On 18 April 2017 a British Gas engineer fitted  a new bulb to Mrs Hs fridge.  He also adjusted  
the thermostat. I find it likely  that Mrs H had reported that the fridge wasnt keeping  a low 
enough temperature. 
I find it more likely that the thermostat was already  faulty on 18 April 2017, rather  than that 
British Gas mis-adjusted or broke the thermostat.
Mrs H complained that some of her food froze in the fridge  and she had to throw it away.  But 
she hasnt persuaded me that the engineer did anything  wrong.  And in any event she hasnt 
given any details of what she lost.
On 25 April 2017 an engineer said the fridge  needed a new thermostat  but that part was 
obsolete. 
Mrs H said the fridge  was less than two years old. But she hasnt provided  any receipt to 
show that. And I note that British Gas said the thermostat was obsolete.  So I find it likely  that 
the fridge was over three  years old.
British Gas offered  Mrs H a 30% contribution towards the cost of a new fridge. I find that fair 
and reasonable in line with the policy terms. 
Ref: DRN15300443The Leak
The policy terms say that British Gas will (up to a limit of £1,000.00) trace  and access leaks. 
I think that includes removing parts of ceilings, floors, walls or other surfaces  covering pipes 
suspected of leaking.
The policy terms say that British Gas will reinstate  such surfaces by making good and 
leaving them  level  but not by matching finishes.
Ive thought about the condition of Mrs Hs home before she contacted  British  Gas. Ive seen 
photographs taken  later.
In response to the provisional decision, Mrs H said the following:
when  I made the claim  I have leak since 9/2017 that's  enough  time to damage my 
property
I think she made her claim in December 2017.  I think there was already some  damp  with old 
stains and mould in the corner at the foot of the stairs. 
The side wall had two sorts of embossed  wall-paper  with a vertical joint.  I dont accept that 
this was a fashion statement. I think it was the result of partial re-decoration. I think many 
people would say it needed redecorating.
The stair carpet was patterned. The hard flooring in the hallway was chipped  in places. I 
accept the opinion of the specialist who estimated the flooring and carpet were eight to ten 
years old.
On 3 December  2017 Mrs H contacted British Gas. She reported that water was leaking 
from behind the toilet through her ceiling. So I find that there had been some damage  before 
Mrs H contacted British  Gas.
On the same  day an engineer attended and changed  a pipe connecting to the toilet.  From 
the photographs I see that someone  took down  a section of damaged  ceiling. I dont think  it 
matters whether that was Mrs H or British  Gas. I think British Gas shouldve  taken it down  
and later made good  but not re-decorated. 
The next day Mrs H reported  that there was a leak in the same  area. On that day an 
engineer attended and tightened a pipe. 
A few days  later during the night there  was a leak from the same area. An engineer attended 
on about 8 December and said there was a fast leak coming  from the pipes leading  to the 
toilet. He fitted  new pipes.  
As this was the third visit to the same area, I find it more likely than not that British  Gas had 
fallen below a reasonable standard  of work on the earlier visits.
Mrs H complained of damage to her ceiling, stairway wallpaper, a wall mirror,  stair carpet, 
laminate flooring (in the upstairs landing  and bedroom and downstairs hallway), and shoe 
cupboard.
But I dont think Mrs H or her flooring specialist has been able to show what damage 
happened when.
Ref: DRN15300444British Gas hasnt  offered  Mrs H compensation for her carpet  or flooring. But it has offered 
her the following:
for the repair of the ceiling and wall £1,200.00
for the mirror and shoe  cupboard £     90.00
total £1,290.00
I keep in mind my findings about the condition of Mrs Hs home before she contacted British 
Gas. And I keep in mind  that she hasnt shown  what damage happened  when. I dont  find it 
fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay compensation on the basis  of new  for old.
Overall I think  its offer of £1,290.00 is more than fair and reasonable. Im minded to direct  
British Gas to honour that offer.
Ive thought about ordering  British  Gas to pay interest at our usual rate. But Mrs H hasnt 
provided enough written  evidence  that she paid for repairs  and was out of pocket. So Im not 
minded to direct British  Gas to pay interest  or to do any more in response to Mrs Hs 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs H £1,290.00 for damage to her home in 
December 2017.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1530044