K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about American Express Services Europe Limited  (AESEL). Hes unhappy 
with the travel insurance benefit he has as part of his American  Express Platinum Credit 
Card. 
background
Mr G has travel insurance with AESEL as a benefit on his American Express  Platinum Credit 
Card. A company Ill refer to as Company X manages any claims made under the 
insurance benefits on Mr Gs card.
As a result of flooding  while  Mr G was abroad  he wasnt able to return  to the hotel he was 
originally staying at. Mr G incurred additional  costs for an overnight  stay at another  hotel and 
extra fuel costs. Mr G made a claim for these costs under his travel insurance.
AESEL considered Mr Gs claim and turned it down. It said the situation Mr G was claiming 
for wasnt covered  by his policy. 
Unhappy with AESELs  decision, Mr G complained.
AESEL sent its final response  to Mr Gs complaint and in summary it said:
Mr Gs claim had been  correctly assessed
its claim handlers strictly adhered to guidelines set out in the Terms & Conditions and 
couldnt settle any claims which fell outside  this criteria
it treated all Card Members and their claims equally and fairly. And only assessed  
claims on their merits in accordance  with the Terms and Conditions
regrettably, the circumstances surrounding  Mr Gs claim fell outside the applicable  
terms and conditions  and so it wasnt in a position to compel Company X to settle his 
claim
it couldnt identify  any error had been made and so couldnt uphold  Mr Gs complaint
Unhappy with AESELs  response, Mr G referred  his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
he didnt think AESEL  had acted unfairly
AESELs policy documentation clearly  set out what was and wasnt covered  under 
the travel  insurance policy benefit and it was up to a consumer to check and make  
sure the policy  met their needs
he didnt think policy documentation had been misleading
he understood Mr Gs frustration regarding his claim but he didnt think  AESEL had 
done anything  wrong
Mr G disagreed and in summary  said:
AESEL were selling a product it aimed  at sophisticated regular travellers  and he 
didnt think it was unreasonable  to expect such a policy to be comprehensive
he accepted  it was up to the consumer to read the terms and conditions, but the 
exclusion of catastrophe cover was significant
Ref: DRN11724552any reasonable person would probably  assume  catastrophe cover was included in 
the AESEL policy  even without reading the terms and conditions
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise  that while Ive 
taken note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments made by both parties,  I have 
limited my response to what  I consider  to be the issues  central to this complaint. 
I should firstly say that Im very sorry to hear about  what happened during Mr Hs trip. I can 
appreciate it will have  been very concerning  and no doubt disappointing to have incurred  
costs he didnt anticipate. I can also imagine the frustration he felt when he learned his costs 
werent covered  by his insurance.
I understand Mr G feels strongly that his claim shouldve been  covered under his policy. But 
the fact remains that insurers are allowed  to decide what  risks they are prepared  to cover.
What I have to consider  is whether  the unfortunate situation Mr G found  himself in is indeed  
a situation thats covered by his travel insurance policy.  
An insurance policy cant cover every eventuality that might cause disruption or loss to a 
policy holder, but will make clear those  situations that are covered. Ive carefully reviewed 
the wording of Mr Gs policy terms and conditions and Im satisfied the circumstances of Mr 
Gs claim werent covered. In addition to this I havent  seen anything  which  leads me to be 
able to fairly conclude  that theres  anything  misleading or unclear about the terms and 
conditions. Because  of this I dont consider that AESEL has acted unfairly  or unreasonably  in 
turning down Mr Gs claim.  The risk of Mr Gs situation occurring simply isnt an insured 
event under his policy. According to Mr Gs policy conditions, he could  only potentially 
benefit from cover for additional travel and accommodation costs as a consequence of 
requiring emergency medical treatment. This didnt apply to Mr Gs situation. 
Mr G has said he doesnt think it was unreasonable for him to expect  his credit card, which  
he considers to be aimed at sophisticated regular travellers, to include a really 
comprehensive travel  insurance policy.  And on this basis he thinks its unfair his claim 
wasnt covered. I dont underestimate  Mr Gs strength of feeling  or sincerity in bringing  his 
complaint, but Im unable to agree with the points hes making here.  It is ultimately the 
policyholders responsibility to consider  and ensure  their policy  meets their requirements and 
expectations. To not do so (and to make an assumption instead) represents a real risk. 
I note that Mr G has said he couldve  taken  out cheaper travel insurance policies elsewhere 
under which his claim wouldve been  covered. And while this may be the case  this doesnt  
mean AESEL has done anything  wrong.
As Ive already  said, I have sympathy  for Mr G, but I cant agree that hes been treated 
unfairly. Because of this Im unable to uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN11724553Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Chillel Williams
Ref: DRN1172455