K820x#14complaint
Mrs Bs complained Santander UK Plc (Santander) blocked her debit and credit  cards while  
she was out of the country. Shes said she wasnt able to access  any cash for most of the 
holiday. And she spent  a lot of time on the phone to Santander trying  to resolve the issue.
background
Mrs Bs said in February 2019,  she visited a branch of Santander  to confirm she was 
travelling out of the country. Santanders said, at this point, the advisor updated her cards to 
reflect this and added a notice to her account.  
In March 2019, whilst on holiday, Mrs B got in touch  with Santander over the phone to let 
them know  she wasnt able to use her cards.  She said shed tried using them in a cash 
machine but the transactions wouldnt go through. And she thought it was a problem  with her 
account because  other  people  before her were able to use the same cash  machine without 
any problems. The advisor  spoke to the security team and told Mrs B there  were  no blocks 
on her cards. They explained there  were also no declined transactions  showing on the 
account. So they thought  there mightve  been a problem with the cash  machine and advised 
Mrs B to try a different terminal after wiping the card down.
Mrs B also spoke to Santander  in April 2019. During that call, she said shed previously been 
told there were blocks on her cards  due to unusual activity. And following the call in 
March 2019, Santander unblocked one of her cards  but not the other. She said she wanted 
Santander to cover her phone bill  as the calls whilst she was abroad had cost her £60. 
Santander hasnt  agreed to cover the cost of Mrs Bs phone bill. Its said it didnt apply any 
blocks to her cards and it doesnt  have any records of transactions being  declined due to a 
block. Its given us a copy of the card transactions on Mrs Bs debit and credit cards in 
March 2019 while she was abroad. Its said this shows a number of transactions which were 
accepted on Mrs Bs debit  card while she was away. And the only declined transaction on 
her credit card was due to her magnetic strip being  used instead  of her personal  
identification number  (PIN). Santanders said if she gives  more  information  for example, 
declined receipts,  it can ask the card scheme to look into things further with the merchants.  
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs B asked  our service to look into things. Our 
investigator didnt  think  Santander had done  anything wrong. Mrs B disagreed. She said 
although her debit card was unblocked  following her initial  call with Santander, her credit 
card remained  out of use, even after following Santanders advice. She thinks Santander  
admitted during the initial call that it had blocked  her cards and she doesnt think its process 
for removing  blocks is fit for purpose.  She also thinks if the card scheme has done anything  
wrong, Santander should take responsibility  for this. So the complaints  been  passed to me 
to reach  a decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold the complaint 
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Ref: DRN16166692Ive listened carefully  to the first call Mrs B had with the Santander advisor whilst she was 
out of the country. And whilst the advisor discussed the process for blocking cards with 
Mrs B, I dont  agree he told her that her account  or cards had been blocked. In fact, after 
checking her card details  with her, he confirmed  a number of times during the call that the 
cards hadnt  been  blocked. 
Santanders given  us a copy of the transaction history of Mrs Bs debit and credit cards 
during March 2019  whilst  she was away. If Mrs Bs debit or credit cards had been blocked  
by Santander,  Id expect to see transactions  attempted and declined during  that period. Ive 
looked carefully at the transaction history and I cant see any instances  of transactions  being  
declined on her debit  card.  And instead,  there  are a number of successful transactions that 
occurred while she was away. 
Ive also looked  at the transaction  history for Mrs Bs credit card. Shes said whilst she was 
eventually able to use her debit card, her credit  card remained restricted throughout her 
holiday. I can see on the credit card transaction list, there was one declined transaction 
which was attempted  on 5 March 2019. Santanders  explained  to us and Mrs B this was 
declined because the magnetic strip was used on her card rather  than entering the PIN, and 
not because a block had been applied to her account. Before  and after this transaction was 
attempted, I cant see any other transactions were attempted and declined  which  would be 
the case if, as Mrs Bs said, shed tried taking cash out from different cash machines and the 
credit card didnt work. 
So, based  on everything Ive seen, Im not satisfied  the problems Mrs B faced whilst abroad 
were because Santander had restricted her accounts.  I can understand Mrs B mightve  been  
upset and distressed  by being unable to access her funds, but I dont think  this was due to 
anything Santander  did. So I dont think it should cover the costs of her phone calls from 
when she was trying to get the block  she thought had been added   removed.
I know Mrs Bs said she thinks Santander  should be responsible for actions of the card 
schemes if theyve caused any problems. But I think shes misunderstood what Santander 
has said. From what Ive seen, I think Santander explained as it hadnt declined  the 
transactions, the merchants (for example, the cash machine  provider) may have. And an 
avenue she could explore would be for the card schemes to investigate that further for her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 15 August 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1616669