K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc have treated him unfairly in the way theyve 
administered his mortgage. 
background
Mr M has a mortgage with Bank of Scotland, originally taken out on an interest-only basis. 
Over the years hes had difficulty managing  the monthly payments, and the mortgage has 
built up significant arrears  as a result.
In 2013 Bank of Scotland capitalised Mr Ms arrears, but by 2014  arrears had started to build 
again. In 2018 Bank  of Scotland carried out a remediation exercise on Mr Ms mortgage 
following guidance from the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA). This reduced 
his arrears balance  to £47,829.27.
Mr M has made several  complaints to the bank over the years  about how theyve  treated  
him. Hes asked our service to look into things  for him, as he still feels they should have 
done more to help him get out of the situation hes found himself in.
Our investigator set out to both parties  what she thought we could consider under  this 
complaint, taking into account  the relevant time limit rules. She said we could consider 
Mr Ms concerns about the following:
Bank of Scotland increased  his contractual monthly payment (CMP) to include his 
arrears but also pursued him for the arrears separately; 
some  of his sub-accounts are operating on a capital and repayment  basis  rather than 
interest-only;
the general treatment  hes received by the bank when hes been struggling to make 
his monthly payments  and been  unwell;
the customer service issues hes experienced  including the conversations  hes had 
with the bank about providing income and expenditure information.
Mr M had raised other specific  concerns  about  the way Bank  of Scotland had treated him, 
but our investigator  explained these had either been brought  out of time,  or had already 
been considered by our service. 
Both parties  agreed to the investigators view about  what we could consider, so she went on 
to consider the merits of the complaint. She upheld the complaint. She wasnt  satisfied  Bank 
of Scotland had followed the FCAs guidance  when  remediating  Mr Ms mortgage account.  
As a result, she said the mortgage should  be re-worked to reflect that the arrears balance  
was £510 higher than it should have been when it was capitalised  into the main mortgage  
balance in 2013.
She found that once the arrears had been capitalised, the only interest rate product available 
to Mr M at the time was higher than the standard variable rate (SVR) he was paying, so she 
didnt think hed suffered a loss by not being  offered this at the time. She thought Bank  of 
Scotland were  acting  fairly by setting up the sub-accounts on capital and repayment  when  
the arrears were capitalised. She said the bank  should have let Mr M know  that there would  
be a delay in completing his Data Subject Access Request (DSAR), so in the absence of the 
bank providing  evidence of this she asked  them to pay Mr M £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused.
Ref: DRN15131732Neither party accepted the investigators findings. Bank of Scotland  said they were satisfied 
theyd remediated Mr Ms account correctly and in line with the FCAs guidance. Mr M still 
felt the bank should have  offered  him more than they did to help him. In particular he thinks 
they should have frozen  the interest on his account, or offered him a lower interest rate to 
enable him to repay the arrears more quickly.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change  her opinion so the complaints  been  passed to 
me to issue  a decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 10 November 2020. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Both parties  have provided detailed submissions on this case,  and I want  to assure them  Ive 
reviewed everything theyve submitted thoroughly. Having  done so I dont find it necessary to 
refer to each individual point in this decision. Rather,  Ill focus  on the crux of the matter and 
refer to the evidence I believe to be relevant in reaching an overall fair outcome. 
the automatic  capitalisation on the account
In June 2018 Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr M to tell him his monthly payment would be 
changing from July. The letter explained theyd reviewed his account following  guidance 
issued by the FCA, and theyd  found that at least one of his monthly payments had included 
an amount towards  the arrears. They compared this to what  his monthly payments  would  
have been had the arrears not been included, and adjusted his account accordingly.
The adjustment reduced Mr Ms arrears balance to £47,829.27 and he received a payment 
of £4.76 to account for 8% interest  on any amounts hed overpaid.  The bank told him his 
new monthly payment  would be £1,403.18,  but as he had an arrangement  in place, he didnt 
need to pay this amount.
Mr M has queried whether  this remediation was done correctly. Our investigator felt that 
Bank of Scotland had applied the guidance  fairly since the arrears were capitalised  in 2013,  
but thought they needed  to do more  to put things right taking account  of the way the 
mortgage was administered before then. Bank of Scotland are satisfied theyve remediated 
the account correctly in line with the regulators guidance.
A remediation calculation of this type is not a straight forward  matter, as it involves  re-
working the account as if a different (and correct)  CMP had been  asked  for over the whole 
period where  the bank had been  automatically capitalising  the arrears. The bank have 
provided their calculations and Ive reviewed them closely, as well as the transaction  history  
of Mr Ms account to see how hes been impacted  by this. Having done so, whilst Im 
satisfied Bank of Scotland had automatically  capitalised Mr Ms arrears  when they shouldnt  
have done, Im also satisfied theyve now remediated the account in line with the guidance 
set by the FCA. And in Mr Ms case,  I think this is a fair way to put things  right, so I wont be 
asking the bank to refund any additional  amounts.
the manual capitalisation  of the account in 2013
Ref: DRN15131733In 2013, Mr M had several conversations  with the bank about  his mortgage, including  
discussions around the interest  rate and his arrears. Its clear from the notes that Mr Ms 
intention was to find a way to reduce his mortgage  payments, as he asked for information  
about the best rates the bank had available.  It looks as though a letter was sent to Mr M 
inviting him to discuss the rates  available  with a branch, or he could call the bank about his 
options. 
Mr M called the bank in April 2013 and asked to capitalise the arrears on the mortgage.  The 
notes show Bank of Scotland explained  to Mr M what this would mean, and informed him 
what the new CMP would be. Mr M confirmed  this was affordable and the bank agreed to 
make the change to the account. Mr Ms mortgage  stayed on the standard  variable rate 
(SVR), which was 4.95% at the time, and he maintained the new CMP for around a year 
before arrears started  to accrue on the account  again.
Mr M is unhappy  about what happened  in 2013 for two reasons.  He says it wasnt made 
clear to him that the capitalised  amount would be converted to a repayment  basis  when the 
rest of his mortgage  was on interest only. Hes also unhappy he wasnt  offered a better 
interest rate even  though  hed cleared  the arrears.
We dont have a copy of the call recording where  Mr M asked for his mortgage arrears to be 
capitalised, so we dont know for sure exactly what was explained to him. Bank of Scotland  
have sent us a copy  of the template letter they say they would have sent to Mr M at the time, 
which explains what capitalisation means  for the account, but we dont have any evidence  
this was actually  sent. 
I understand why Mr M is confused about  the fact some of his mortgage was converted  to 
repayment when  the rest of the mortgage  was on interest only. As whilst this information  was 
clearly set out on his annual  statements  from 2013 onwards, I cant  see the reasons behind 
this were ever clearly explained to him until he complained.  However, Im not persuaded the 
bank were acting unfairly when they made these changes to the account and Ill explain why. 
Mr M had over £10,000 worth of arrears on his account in early 2013  that he said he wanted 
to capitalise. The context of this request isnt entirely clear but I would assume that because  
his earlier  conversations with the bank were about applying  for lower interest rates,  and the 
bank said they wouldnt offer a lower rate whilst the mortgage was in arrears, the reason he 
wanted to capitalise  was to get the mortgage back on track, and to give him access  to other 
rates that may have  been available. 
When a mortgage  falls into arrears, the borrower and the lender  need to agree a way that 
these will be repaid before the end of the mortgage  term. Bank of Scotland have told us that 
due to a change to their internal systems, the way the sub-accounts operated on Mr Ms 
mortgage account changed  around  the same  time the arrears were capitalised,  which  I think 
has caused the confusion here. 
Mr Ms original  repayment vehicle was only ever intended, and approved to cover  the 
original interest only mortgage  balance. As a result  of this, as the balance  outstanding 
increased above this original amount  due to the arrears and any fees and charges that had 
been applied,  this additional amount was operating on a repayment basis.  
Whilst increasing the outstanding balance on an interest only basis  may have helped  Mr M in 
the short term, as his monthly  payments  would  not have increased  by quite so much, this 
Ref: DRN15131734would not have ensured the arrears would  be repaid  by the end of the term. Mr M confirmed 
at the time that the new higher monthly payments were affordable for him, which was 
evidenced as he was able to make  them consistently for around a year. And if hed 
continued to maintain these payments, him repaying  the arrears  on a repayment basis  would 
have meant  that when  the mortgage reached  the end of the term, he would only be left with 
the original borrowing outstanding to pay. 
Its unfortunate that Mr M wasnt able to maintain the CMP beyond 2014, but Im not satisfied 
it was the difference in the sub-accounts  being  on a repayment basis  or interest only basis  
that meant  the mortgage became unaffordable for him. Overall,  Im not persuaded the bank 
were acting unfairly by capitalising  the mortgage  arrears on a repayment basis.
Mr M has made complaints  in the past about the fact that his mortgage has been on the SVR 
since 2010 and he hasnt had access to lower  interest rate products  whilst  the mortgage  has 
been in arrears. Our investigator already explained  that we wont be looking into these 
specific concerns as our service has considered  them  already under a different complaint 
reference.
However, our investigator did look at why Mr M wasnt offered another  interest  rate product 
in 2013 when the arrears were capitalised and the mortgage account  was up to date for 
around a year, as this hadnt previously been  considered.
Following the initial  more general conversations about interest  rates Mr M had with the bank 
before he capitalised the arrears, I cant see he actually made an application to switch, or 
that Bank  of Scotland considered whether they were prepared to offer him a different rate.
However, looking at the interest rate products Bank  of Scotland  say would have been 
available to Mr M at the time the arrears were capitalised, it seems  the only rate available  at 
the time was actually  higher than the SVR. So I think  its likely Mr M chose not to go ahead  
with an application,  and decided to stay on the SVR instead as it was lower  at the time. As a 
result, Im not persuaded Bank  of Scotland acted unfairly by not switching Mr Ms mortgage 
to another interest rate in 2013.
general treatment whilst in financial difficulties
Mr M complains about the way Bank  of Scotland managed his account whilst  he was in 
arrears and doesnt think they did enough to support him. When a mortgage is in arrears,  Id 
expect the lender to engage with the borrower  and explore options that would help make  the 
mortgage more  affordable,  whilst  ensuring  the full balance is repaid by the end of the term, 
taking account  of the borrowers individual circumstances. The regulator, the FCA, has set 
out what it would expect the lender to consider  in such circumstances in order to get the 
mortgage back on track.
So in order to decide whether I think Bank  of Scotland have treated Mr M fairly, Ive looked 
at the conversations  theyve had since the mortgage fell into arrears, and the options 
explored and discussed  by both parties.
Unfortunately, Mr Ms employment  circumstances  changed after the mortgage  was taken out 
which made things  more difficult for him. His mortgage was initially on a tracker  rate until 
2010, and so as a result of the Bank  of England  base rate falling since  he initially took it out, 
the mortgage payments were affordable. However,  once  his mortgage reverted to the SVR,  
Ref: DRN15131735this increased the CMP by quite a significant amount and Mr M struggled to afford the higher 
payments. 
Some short-term arrangements were agreed with the bank, and I can see from the contact 
notes that in October 2011, longer term options  were discussed. Mr M said he had 
considered selling the property, but it was in negative equity. As Mr M was self-employed,  it 
seems his income fluctuated over the following years which meant sometimes he was able 
to make the payments to the mortgage, but other  times  he couldnt. Communication was 
frequent from both sides, and I can see that Mr M was trying  to pay as much as he could 
towards the mortgage. 
Over the years several payment arrangements were agreed, and even when these werent 
met, I can see the bank  allowed Mr M some  time to provide more  information about what  he 
could afford  to pay before taking any further  action. The bank agreed to capitalise the 
arrears in 2013, but unfortunately  Mr M wasnt able to maintain the payments in the long 
term. He considered letting the property out to generate more  income,  and requests for 
lower interest rates were made on several occasions. The outcome of those requests have 
been dealt with by our service already so I havent  considered those. But looking at 
everything else thats happened, Im satisfied  that overall, Bank of Scotland  have attempted  
to support Mr M taking  into account  his individual circumstances.  
Unfortunately, it seems longer term options  were limited  as the majority  of the mortgage 
was already on interest only, so changing  the repayment type or the term of the mortgage 
would not have made a significant difference to the amount  Mr M had to pay each month.  
Whilst its clear  Mr M was optimistic about  his income improving over time, the information 
hes provided to the bank  about his income and expenditure each time has shown  a deficit. 
So unfortunately, it seems  that Mr M had reached a point where maintaining this mortgage 
until the end of the term just wasnt affordable for him unless his circumstances changed. 
The mortgage arrears  were around  £60,000  in July 2020,  and Im not persuaded for the 
reasons Ive explained above, that these have been  caused as a result  of any unfair 
treatment by the bank.  
Aside from allowing  Mr M to switch to a lower interest rate product, Mr M has also 
complained that the bank didnt offer to freeze the interest on the mortgage. Mr M has 
specifically referred to guidance issued  by Scottish  Government that requires creditors  to do 
this. However, what Mr M is referring  to here is the Debt Arrangement Scheme, which is a 
scheme approved  by Scottish Parliament under the Debt Arrangement and Attachment 
(Scotland) Act 2002 (the 2002  Act).
The relevant  guidance under this scheme  does say that when  a Debt  Payment Programme 
(DPP) is in place, the creditors must not charge interest, fees or penalties  on the relevant 
debt. But whilst I appreciate Mr M has been  applying for a DPP for some time, at the time 
this complaint was made, he did not have  one in place. So, there was no requirement  for 
Bank of Scotland to freeze the interest on Mr Ms mortgage. 
The relevant  rules that apply here are the Mortgage  and Home Finance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook  (MCOB), and as Ive explained, I think Bank of Scotland have treated 
Mr Ms mortgage arrears in line with these  rules. 
Mr M says that had Bank  of Scotland done more to help him over the years, whilst there  may 
still have been  arrears on the account, they would have  been much lower and could have 
been fully repaid by now. Whilst I appreciate that Mr M feels this way and has been paying  
Ref: DRN15131736as much as he can afford to the mortgage, due to Mr Ms personal circumstances, the 
arrears have continued to grow over the years  rather than reduce.  This is largely  due to 
there being significant periods where Mr M could not pay anything to the mortgage at all. So 
Im not persuaded that its the actions of Bank  of Scotland that have resulted in the arrears 
not having been repaid  in full by now.
customer service  issues
Mr M has raised a number of concerns about  the customer service hes received from Bank 
of Scotland in relation  to his mortgage.  These include having to complete his income and 
expenditure information over the phone  rather than in writing,  having to speak to colleagues 
at the bank who are offshore, and delays  in processing his Data Subject Access  Request 
(DSAR). 
Looking at the contact notes from the account, I can see there were occasions  where  the 
conversations got frustrated and at times became unproductive. I can appreciate these 
would have been difficult conversations for Mr M to have, but Im not persuaded Bank of 
Scotland have  treated Mr M unfairly  by answering some of his telephone calls offshore. I can 
appreciate Mr M may have preferred to speak to someone based within the country,  but Im 
not persuaded hes suffered a loss as a result  of this not always  being an available option  for 
him.
Bank of Scotland have explained that they can now accept  income  and expenditure 
information in writing as well as over the phone, so Mr M is able to send it to them  in this 
format if he prefers. I appreciate he was told previously he could only complete it over the 
phone, but when this was the case,  Ive seen  Bank  of Scotland  were  flexible  about  Mr M 
completing this  to accommodate  times  that were suitable for him and when  he would have 
the information available. So even when providing this information  over the phone was 
Mr Ms only option, Im not persuaded  Bank  of Scotland  were  treating him unfairly. 
Mr M also asked  the bank for information about what  his CMP would be without any interest 
being charged on the arrears, but Bank of Scotland explained they couldnt provide that 
information as its not how the mortgage works. I know  Mr M has said he wanted this 
information to support  his DPP application, but the bank  explained  that the CMP was the 
amount that needed to be paid, and it had been  calculated correctly. The bank hadnt 
accepted to be part of Mr Ms DPP application at that point, and so I dont think  they were  
acting unfairly by not providing information that wasnt  relevant  to the way Mr Ms mortgage  
was operating, especially as they said its not information they were  able to provide.
Mr M made a DSAR request to the bank in September, but he then asked for further 
information from them in October. Bank  of Scotland sent him the information  in December. 
Bank of Scotland have said that as this was a complex request, they had extended  the 
deadline to provide the information  to Mr M  and this deadline  was met. They said although 
they dont have a copy of the letter they sent to Mr M to confirm the three-month  deadline, 
theyre satisfied it would have been  sent.  Ive considered the relevant guidance set by the 
Information Commissioners Office,  and as Mr M did make  a further request for information 
following his initial request, Im satisfied  Bank  of Scotland had three months to provide the 
information to him, which they met.
The guidance does  also say that if the deadline  is extended, Bank of Scotland  needed  to 
write to Mr M to tell him about this, and explain the reason why. The bank have said they did 
do this but havent been able to provide any evidence of the letter  itself. In the event  that 
Ref: DRN15131737Bank of Scotland didnt tell Mr M about  the extension  to the deadline, Ive thought  about  the 
impact this would  have had on Mr M and whether  it resulted  in a loss, or any distress  and 
inconvenience.
During the period between when Mr M initially requested  the information, and him receiving it 
 Ive seen he had several  conversations  with the bank about  his mortgage. Other than 
when he requested further  information in October, I cant see that he mentioned  the fact he 
had not received the information  hed requested. I think  if Mr M felt distressed  or 
inconvenienced by the bank not telling him they were treating his request as complex and 
therefore it would take longer, it would have been mentioned in these conversations.  Mr M 
was also in regular  contact with our service  during that time, and looking at these 
interactions, Im not persuaded that he was inconvenienced by not receiving Bank of 
Scotlands letter confirming the extended deadline.
summary
Its clear Mr M has been through a very difficult time over the years, and unfortunately this 
has had a knock on effect on his mental health.  I really do empathise with his situation and 
what hes been through. But having  looked at everything thats happened, I am satisfied that 
Bank of Scotland have tried to support him, by exploring all forbearance options, and 
allowing Mr M time for his personal circumstances to improve.  Its unfortunate that Mr M 
hasnt been in a position to repay the arrears that have built up over the years, but Im not 
persuaded that his current situation can be attributed  to unfair  treatment by the bank.
Moving forwards, Mr M will need  to engage with Bank of Scotland about a realistic  and 
affordable way he can repay the arrears. And Id expect Bank  of Scotland  to seriously  
consider any proposals put to them before taking further action. I would also like to remind  
Bank of Scotland about the current FCA guidance for taking action to recover mortgage 
arrears given the impact  of the global pandemic,  and expect  them to continue  to treat Mr M 
in line with this guidance as it continues  to evolve over time.
Whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, Im not currently  intending to 
uphold this complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
Bank of Scotland responded to say they had no further comments to make.
Mr M responded and explained that he still felt Bank  of Scotland  should have frozen the 
interest on his mortgage when  he was experiencing financial difficulty.  Hes referred  again  to 
the Debt Arrangement  Scheme (DAS) and the fact that banks are required  to freeze interest  
and charges under the scheme. He still thinks Bank of Scotland should have agreed to the 
scheme when he applied in 2015.
Mr Ms also referred to the Lending  Code, which he says Bank of Scotland  should  have 
followed when he was in financial  difficulty. The Lending Code says that in instances of 
financial difficulty, the lender should Consider reducing or suspending interest and charges 
if these would cause  the debt to increase or lead to the repayment term becoming too 
extended; So Mr M says that the bank were  acting in breach of this code when  they refused 
to freeze  the interest on his mortgage.
Ref: DRN15131738Overall Mr M says that he is not contesting  the debt that he owes,  he is just seeking fair and 
reasonable recourse on how that debt has been  calculated and accrued.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the recent submissions Mr M 
has made in response  to my provisional decision.  I appreciate he feels  strongly that Bank  of 
Scotland have  not followed the rules  and legislation that he says theyre required to, and Ive 
thought carefully  about what Mr M has said. However having  done so, my outcome remains  
unchanged. Ill explain why.
Ive already explained why I dont think Bank of Scotland  were acting unfairly  under  the 
Scottish legislation Mr M has referred to in my provisional decision, so I wont repeat that 
again here. 
But Mr M has also questioned Bank  of Scotlands  decision to decline his application for a 
DPP in 2015. Whilst I havent  seen any evidence to show that Bank  of Scotland  did in fact 
decline an application, and this application  isnt referenced in any of the contact notes the 
bank have provided for the account, Ive thought about whether  including Mr Ms mortgage  
arrears in a DPP would  have been  a reasonable solution to the problem. 
At the time Mr M says he made an application  in 2015, he wasnt  able to pay his CMP each 
month. He did agree  some short-term arrangements with the bank, but it seems his wider  
financial situation meant he was unable to commit to the full monthly amount each month. 
Including a mortgage arrears balance in a DPP may be a reasonable way to ensure the 
arrears are repaid if the borrowers circumstances have improved, and theyre  able to start 
paying the full CMP again.  But that wasnt the case here. As I explained  in my provisional 
decision, Mr Ms overall circumstances had unfortunately made this mortgage  unaffordable 
for him, and at the time the overall sustainability of any future payments was unclear.  
Looking at the overall position of the mortgage and Mr Ms circumstances, Im not persuaded 
that including his mortgage arrears  in a DPP would have made the mortgage  affordable  for 
him, or improved his overall position,  as further  arrears would have continued to accrue on 
the mortgage account.
Mr M has also said that Bank of Scotland  did not follow the guidance in the Lending  Code  
to which  they were signed up to at the time.  Whilst the specific  guidance  Mr M has referred 
to was in place at the time he was experiencing financial difficulty, it did not apply to 
mortgages  but instead,  to other banking products. 
The relevant  industry  guidance that was applicable to Mr Ms situation at the time was issued 
by the Council of Mortgage  Lenders (CML).  Ive reviewed this guidance specifically in light of 
what Mr M has said, and having done  so Im not satisfied that Bank of Scotland have acted 
unfairly. 
The guidance issued  by CML  was based  on the requirements set out by the regulator in 
MCOB. This guidance includes examples of how lenders should treat borrowers in arrears, 
with MCOB (chapter 13) in mind. Whilst the guidance is clear (as are the rules)  that lenders 
should engage with a borrower whose mortgage  is in arrears to agree a way of ensuring 
theyre repaid,  there is nothing that says the lender  should freeze or suspend interest on the 
account. 
Ref: DRN15131739Ive explained  previously how I thought Bank  of Scotland  had applied the relevant rules to Mr 
Ms situation, and why I thought what they did was fair in the circumstances. And considering 
the new points  Mr M has raised, Im not persuaded that Bank of Scotland have  acted against  
the regulators rules, or the relevant industry practice when  dealing  with Mr Ms mortgage.
Of course,  whilst its important to consider the rules  and guidance that applied to Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time, I still need  to consider whether the bank have  treated  Mr M fairly 
and reasonably given his individual circumstances. I explained why I was satisfied they had 
done so in my provisional decision,  and Mr Ms further comments havent changed my mind 
about that.
So overall, whilst I appreciate that Mr M has been through  a difficult time, Im not persuaded 
Bank of Scotland have treated him unfairly  within the scope of this complaint, and so Im not 
upholding it.
I would like to take this opportunity to remind both parties of the need for them to engage 
and work  together to agree a realistic  and affordable way for the arrears  on the mortgage to 
be repaid. I would also like to remind Bank of Scotland about the current  FCA guidance for 
taking action to recover mortgage arrears given  the impact of the global pandemic,  and 
expect them to continue  to treat Mr M in line with this guidance as it continues  to evolve over 
time.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2021.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1513173