K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt offered him enough compensation 
following a data breach of his information.
Background
Mr S had a mortgage with Barclays in the name of himself and his recently deceased  
partner. In August  2018 Mr S contacted Barclays and asked them to update his residential 
address to a new one on all the accounts he held with them.  A couple  of months after 
making the request, Mr S noticed his address wasnt showing correctly so he contacted  
Barclays to raise a complaint. Barclays upheld Mr Ss complaint. They explained there had 
been a mistake when  inputting  Mr Ss postcode initially, so they apologised for the error and 
paid him £150  compensation
In January 2019, Mr S applied for a loan and was surprised  and embarrassed  when this was 
declined so he checked his credit score  to see why this was. Mr S then noticed  that the 
address of his buy-to-let  mortgage had also been  incorrectly updated by Barclays,  so he 
contacted them to raise a further complaint about  breaching his data.
Barclays upheld Mr Ss complaint. They said that Mr S gave them the incorrect postcode 
when hed asked  for his address change. But they acknowledged  that when his residential 
address was updated in August 2018, his buy to let property address  had also been 
changed in error. This meant several letters relating to the death of his partner were sent to 
the incorrect address.  Barclays acknowledged the financial impact on Mr S and agreed  a 
further payment  of £400 for the trouble and upset  caused. They also arranged for a copy of 
all the letters Mr S hadnt received to be sent to his new address,  and for his credit file to be 
corrected. They also said that they didnt have  any reason to believe his data had been 
accessed by a third party.
However, when Mr S received the copy  letters,  he noted that on one of them  the date 
incorrectly said as deceased instead  of December. He also said that his credit  file hadnt 
been updated when hed expected. So, Mr S raised  a further complaint. Barclays apologised 
for their mistake  and acknowledged the distress  caused to Mr S at what  was already a 
difficult time for him and offered him a further  £100  compensation. They  also said theyd sent 
of the information to get his credit  file corrected and this should take place within  28 days.  Mr 
S didnt  think that was enough compensation for the financial impact  and distress hed been 
caused. So, he asked  this service to look in to his complaint. 
The investigator thought Barclays had done enough to put things right.  He agreed that 
Barclays had made  mistakes at an already difficult time for Mr S. He said that he hadnt seen 
enough evidence  to show Barclays were responsible for Mr Ss loan being  declined. So, he 
considered whether the level of compensation offered  was fair and reasonable for the rest of 
the complaint   and based  on the circumstances of the case,  he agreed that it was. 
Mr S didnt agree as he felt the amount of compensation offered wasnt  enough to 
compensate him for the financial impact and the distress caused. As an agreement couldnt  
be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN10920202My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for the same  reasons  as the investigator. 
address and credit file issues
Theres no dispute that Barclays made  a mistake when they updated  Mr Ss mortgage 
address incorrectly. And Mr S says hes suffered distress because  of this. Barclays have told 
him they havent  seen any evidence a third party  has used his information, and theyve 
apologised for their mistake and sent him copies of the missing letters. Theyve also paid Mr 
S £400 compensation for the trouble and upset.   So, the only issue  for me to decide is 
whether Barclays have done enough  to put things right and if the amount  of compensation 
theyve offered, is fair and reasonable. 
Mr S told us hes distressed as he feels his information could have been accessed  by a third 
party. I acknowledge Mr Ss concerns about  this, but I havent seen any evidence  that 
suggests his information has been  accessed or used by anyone  else.  And I think its more  
likely if anyone was going to access the information, they would have done so in the six 
months before Mr S realised his address was incorrect. Ive also seen that Barclays 
apologised for their error and confirmed they updated the address on Mr Ss mortgage as 
soon as hed made  them  aware of the mistake.  
I also recognise Mr S is unhappy  that his loan was declined due to the address error which 
caused him embarrassment,  and that his credit file wasnt updated when hed expected.  I 
also understand hes concerned this will have  an impact  on any future  borrowing. However, 
Ive seen that Barclays agreed  theyd made  a mistake, and sent the request to correct Mr Ss 
credit file as soon as they were made aware of the error. I understand Mr S feels hes lost 
out financially  because  his loan was declined. However, there are numerous different 
reasons a business may decline a loan application. And I havent been given any evidence 
to show that the loan was declined specifically because of the incorrect address. And without 
direct evidence to substantiate this was the reason the loan was declined,  Im unable to hold 
Barclays directly  responsible for it. 
Mr S is also unhappy that his credit file wasnt updated as quickly as he expected. But Ive 
seen that Barclays  told him in mid-January theyd sent the request  to correct his credit file 
and this could  take up-to  28 days. However,  when Mr S checked  his it again, the 28 days 
hadnt yet expired - so I dont  think its unreasonable that the correction hadnt taken place at 
this point. Ive also seen system records from Barclays which said the credit reference  
agencies had accepted and were  processing  the update request. So, I dont think Barclays  
were responsible for the credit file update not taking place as quickly  as Mr S hoped for. 
I also recognise Mr S said his loan was declined because  his credit file was incorrect,  and I 
understand his concerns about  the impact this may have on any future borrowing. But Ive 
seen system  records from Barclays which show theyve tried to put Mr S back in the position 
he wouldve been,  had the error not taken place.  And I havent seen anything that suggests 
the correction  wont resolve the initial error  on Mr Ss credit file once it has taken place. 
Theres also nothing to suggest there  will be any impact on Mr Ss future borrowing because 
of this error.  So, it wouldnt be fair to hold Barclays responsible for something that may not 
happen, or the increased payments Mr S feels hell now incur.  And taking everything  into 
Ref: DRN10920203account, I think the £400 Barclays  offered Mr S for the trouble and upset caused by this part 
of the complaint is reasonable, and I wont be asking them to increase it.
incorrectly dated letter
Mr S has said that when he received the copies  of the missing letters, he was very 
distressed when he saw one was dated  deceased instead of December. Whilst I recognise 
Mr Ss position due to his personal circumstances and issues  hes experienced, its not for 
me to punish  Barclays for making mistakes.  And I dont think  as the nature of this part of 
complaint wouldve had a significantly different impact on Mr S. I say this because the 
content of the letter  which had the error, was requesting a copy of his partners death 
certificate. So, I think regardless of the typing error, that it would have  been  distressing for 
Mr S to receive this letter. Im also conscious  that Barclays  apologised for their error 
immediately and offered  Mr S a further £100 for the additional distress the typing error may 
have caused.  
I recognise this has been an upsetting time for Mr S, and I would  like to offer him my 
condolences on the loss of his partner. And Id like to reassure him that Ive carefully read all 
the information hes provided. I understand why Mr S feels strongly about what happened 
and I realise this wont be the outcome  he was hoping for, but I think  Barclays have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards him. And I think the £100 compensation offered for this part of 
the complaint  is fair, so I wont be asking them to increase it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
I understand Barclays has offered Mr S £500. I conclude  thats  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances so my final decision is that B should pay Mr S £500 if it hasnt already done  
so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1092020