K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs T say Northern Bank Limited (now  trading as Danske Bank) mis-sold them 
the PPI. Ill refer to the business as Northern Bank  in my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When this policy was initially  sold it only covered Mr T for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. But although she wasnt covered, Ive also kept Mrs Ts circumstances in 
mind when coming to my decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Northern Bank have shown us example  copies  of paperwork that they say is 
reflective of what Mr and Mrs T would have seen  at the time of sale. But as these 
example copies arent dated, Ive not relied on them when coming  to my decision.
Mr and Mrs T have  complained (in summary) that:
oThey recall a Northern  Bank  Adviser telling them that they needed to take out 
payment insurance  to which  we refused;
oIf they signed to agree  to take PPI, they unwittingly agreed to do so;
oThey also may have  signed or ticked for PPI, but only because sections of the 
form were marked  with an X; and 
oThey were unaware that theyd  taken out PPI.
As Ive not relied on the example documents, I havent seen any copies of paperwork 
from the sale. But given  that this sale took place over 20 years go, this isnt 
necessarily surprising. In situations like this I've to consider everything and decide 
what I think is more likely  than not to have happened at the time of sale. 
In the absence of paperwork or notes from the meeting, its difficult  to know how the 
policy was positioned  with Mr and Mrs T. 
As Mr and Mrs T have said, they recall refusing PPI verbally  so I think they 
reasonably were aware that it was optional . 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ts points about not reading what they signed  and the 
Xs on the paperwork. Whilst Mr and Mrs T may not have read what  they were  
signing for, I think its more likely  than not that they would have had an opportunity  to 
read it before signing. There also may well have been Xs on the paperwork, but its 
as likely, in my opinion,  that the Xs were  added to draw their attention  to key 
information on the form.
 
In relation to not being made aware that they had PPI, even in the unlikely scenario 
that Mr and Mrs T completed all the paperwork without realising they were  taking 
Ref: DRN17497322PPI, the monthly  PPI premium would have appeared separately on their mortgage  
statements. So I think they would  quite reasonably have questioned what  they were 
paying for if they hadnt been  aware  that theyd taken it out.   
In order for me to uphold this complaint, Id have  to think that Mr and Mrs Ts account  
was more likely than that of Northern Banks.  But as these events happened so long 
ago and as theres  no documentary  evidence  to support either  partys  position, in 
fairness to both parties, I have to conclude that Mr and Mrs Ts account is only 
as likely, not more  likely . 
So, on balance I cannot safely conclude that the policy wasnt presented as optional  
or that they werent  given  a choice to take PPI.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was. For example it doesnt seem that Mr T was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr and Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for them  if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T have said, in particular what  theyve  said about 
their existing means of making their mortgage  repayments meaning that they didnt  need  
PPI. But I dont think that this means the recommendation to take PPI was unsuitable  as, 
after six months Mr Ts sick pay would decrease  to half pay whereas the PPI policy  could 
have covered Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage repayments  for up to 12 months.
Ive also considered the savings or insurance  that Mr and Mrs T have said they had. Whilst 
no details have been provided of them, this PPI policy would have paid out in addition to 
Mr and Mrs T existing  means, allowing them the option of not needing to rely on their 
existing means for making their repayments, or using their existing means to help pay for 
other living expenses  that they may have  had.
So these points dont  change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs T paid on their PPI  and whether 
Northern Bank treated  them  unfairly. 
Northern Bank has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ts PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Northern Bank has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ts commission was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell them about the commission  so I dont think  
Northern Bank treated  them  unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs T back 
any of the commission  they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN17497323I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1749732