K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs S took out PPI alongside a mortgage  that started in August 1995.  The policy 
provided them with accident, sickness and unemployment cover in the event that Mr S 
couldnt work. 
In December 1995 Mr and Mrs S took out a further  advance on their mortgage account. 
They also took out additional  PPI that would cover  their increased mortgage monthly 
repayments if Mr S lost his job unexpectedly  or was unable to work as a result of illness or 
disability.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr and Mrs S disagree 
and theyve put forward a number of points in support of their complaint. 
In summary,  Mr and Mrs S told us that they have no specific recollection of the exact events. 
But they say they werent  put in a position to make a fully informed decision if they did sign 
for PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
what happened  in August 1995
Nationwide cant tell us how the policy was sold. Usually, Id expect the paperwork to show 
whats likely to have happened at the time and how the PPI was likely  to have been 
presented. But Nationwide  hasnt been  able to provide any documents  signed by 
Mr and Mrs S to show how they took out the PPI. I dont think  thats surprising given that the 
mortgage account closed more than 22 years ago. I wouldnt expect Nationwide to have kept 
records about a closed account  for so long.
Mr and Mrs S arent certain,  but think they remember speaking  with an advisor  when they 
arranged their mortgage. So its quite possible thats what happened.
But what  they say about the way they were  sold the PPI isnt enough  on its own for me to be 
able to uphold  their complaint. I have to look at all the available information and decide what 
I think is most likely.  
Ref: DRN18588352PPI wasnt required with their mortgage or automatically included.  Mr and Mrs S wouldve 
had to say if they wanted PPI. And it looks like they probably did have a discussion about 
that as it appears  that only Mr S opted  for cover  and they didnt choose to take it out for 
Mrs S. I assume this reflects  their wishes  and priorities  at the time. And it suggests to me 
that they wouldve been made aware of the option  to take out PPI and they understood it 
was up to them to say if they wanted  it. 
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Ss home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage  payments werent  kept up to 
date. The PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly  repayments  were 
protected even  if Mr S couldnt  work. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. On 
balance, I think its more  likely that Mr and Mrs S decided they wanted to have the benefits 
that PPI offered them and they chose  to buy the policy  to cover Mr S. 
Nationwide says it didnt  advise Mr and Mrs S to take out the policy.  But Nationwide still had 
to give them enough  clear information so Mr and Mrs S could  decide  if the policy was right 
for them.
Mr S was eligible for the policy.  Its unclear  how much sick pay he mightve  been  entitled to 
from work.  But bearing in mind that the policy paid out for up to 24 months for each 
successful accident  and sickness claim,  and repeat  claims  were possible, it looks like the 
policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than it seems  likely that Mr S couldve relied 
on getting sick pay through  work.
The policy wouldve also paid out for up to 24 months per claim if Mr S lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.  
I dont know if Mr and Mrs S wouldve  always had savings they could rely on if theyd needed 
to make a claim. And having PPI wouldve meant  they could keep savings intact  to provide 
financial security for the future or pay for other things they mightve been saving up for. 
So, looking  at Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time,  I think  the policy  couldve been  
useful to them. And it appears  this is borne out by the fact that Nationwide  told us Mr S 
made a successful claim on the policy in 1995.
Its possible  some information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI when they took 
out their mortgage wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. There were some things the policy 
didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if Mr and Mrs S were affected by any of the conditions 
limiting the policys  main benefits. So, I dont think having more  information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
I dont know if or how the policy costs  were explained to Mr and Mrs S when they took it out. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that the PPI wasnt affordable for them. As this was a policy they 
paid for each month, Mr and Mrs S couldve cancelled it at any time at no extra  cost if they 
didnt want to pay for it. 
Ref: DRN18588353what happened  in December 1995
PPI wasnt extended  automatically when Mr and Mrs S arranged  their further advance.  It 
wouldve been up to them to choose  if they wanted  to have it. And I can understand why 
they mightve been happy to agree the extra cost of the additional cover. As far as I can see 
their circumstances were broadly the same. The policy gave Mr and Mrs S the same benefits  
and it provided them  with the long term protection they already had set up for their original 
mortgage. 
So I think its likely that this PPI was taken out with their further advance  as they wanted the 
PPI benefits to cover their increased borrowing. 
Mr S continued to be able to take advantage of all the benefits under the policy. And theres 
nothing to suggest that the extra cost was a problem for them when they wouldve had to set 
up the arrangements at their bank to pay for this additional PPI. 
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Mrs S still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as it gave 
them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont  think having better information 
wouldve put them off buying it.
 
Overall, this means I dont  find that Mr and Mrs S have lost out as a result of anything  that 
Nationwide did wrong. So it doesnt  need  to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1858835