K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard)  mishandled 
payments to clear her credit card balance.  She says shes  lost around £300  as a result.
background
Miss A clears  her credit card balance  in full each month by direct  debit. She says 
Barclaycard took less than she owed, because she was due refunds on the account. Once 
the refunds had been made, Miss A says Barclaycard took a further £300 the following 
month.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that a 
premature refund had been  made to Miss As account in connection with a disputed 
transaction. The dispute wasnt resolved and the amount was then taken from Miss As 
account. The handling of the disputed transaction was dealt with in a separate  complaint, 
and Miss A eventually received the refund. So overall, the investigator didnt find that 
Barclaycard had taken  money from Miss A in error.
Miss A didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions, so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at all the information thats  been supplied in connection  with this 
complaint. I can see that there were a number of disputed transactions on Miss As account, 
and that they were  the subject of a different complaint. 
But as a result of that complaint, there were compensation payments made to Miss As 
account which meant the balance fluctuated  more  than she might have expected. I think its 
the handling of Miss As disputed transactions, together with the compensation payments 
she received, which  may have caused  confusion about the correct balance  on her account.
In early May 2016  the balance on Miss As account was £4,911.91.  She received refunds on 
some purchases, and also received  a refund of interest and charges  making a total of 
£458.55. This was credited to her account,  together with a direct debit payment of £3,992.71 
 so that the balance on Miss As account  in June  2016 was £460.65.
I understand there was a transaction in dispute  at that time that wasnt  handled correctly. 
Barclaycard has told me that the disputed  transaction  was the reason why Miss As full 
balance wasnt collected at the time.
But on 27 June 2016 a direct debit payment of £266.14  was credited to Miss As account.
When the poorly handled dispute was identified, Miss A received a refund of this direct debit 
payment, plus £100  so £366.14  in total.
Miss A also received refunds worth £52.61 on some of her purchases.
Ref: DRN19031702This meant the revised balance  on Miss As account  was £41.90. Barclaycard credited this 
amount so that the balance would  be reduced to zero.
But I understand that Miss A asked for the £366.14 payment to be paid to her current 
account. Her statements show that this happened  on 14 July 2016.
This meant there was a balance on Miss As account  again  for £366.14. Barclaycard took 
a direct debit payment  to clear this in August 2016.
So from what Ive seen  and been  told, Im not persuaded that Barclaycard  has taken more 
money from Miss A than it shouldve done. As such there are no reasonable grounds  on 
which I can uphold her complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1903170