K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains on behalf of the late Mr S that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) with a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 1999 the late Mr S took out PPI when he borrowed money for home improvements. HSBC 
doesnt know how the sale came about  Mrs S thinks it was done in-branch.
The PPI was a single  premium policy, so its cost was added to the loan where it attracted 
interest over the two year term. In total it added just under  £400  to the overall  cost of the 
loan or around  £16 a month.
HSBC told us that the loan ended in 2001   it ran to term.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said that, given how long ago things 
happened and based on the sample  paperwork from HSBC,  they thought  it likely the late Mr 
S chose  PPI. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong  or unsuitable for him.
Mrs S disagrees, so the complaint  comes to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think HSBC made it clear that the late Mr S didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out.
While HSBC no longer  has any of the actual paperwork from the time  and this isnt 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place and the loan ended  weve seen 
example paperwork  HSBC says the late Mr S wouldve likely seen. And based on how 
the paperwork was set out and the fact a customer was asked to sign separately for PPI, 
I think it wouldve been clear PPI was optional.
So, on the basis that Ive not seen enough to persuade me that something different 
happened in the late Mr S case,  I think he likely chose  and agreed  to take out PPI and 
did so without undue pressure.
Because this was likely a branch  sale I think HSBC recommended the PPI to the late Mr 
S, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based  on what Mrs S has told 
us of his circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For example he wasnt  affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems  to have had a need for 
the cover   he didnt  have  any sick pay or other means to fall back  on.
Ref: DRN10811072While the policy didnt  provide for a pro-rata  refund if it was cancelled  before the end of 
the term  for example  if the loan was repaid early  Ive not seen anything  which  leads 
me to believe it was the late Mr S intention to do this at the time. Im also mindful that 
the term of the loan was relatively short. So the policys refund terms didnt make it 
unsuitable.  
Its possible the information HSBC gave the late Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  albeit I think its likely HSBC disclosed the cost based on the example 
paperwork provided. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable notwithstanding  my finding that I think  the cost was 
disclosed anyway. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover.  
This means  that HSBC doesnt  have  to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said - including what shes said in her response to 
the adjudicators  findings. But these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S on behalf  of 
the estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before  1 November 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1081107