K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Great Lakes  Insurance SE has turned down his unemployment claim. 
background
After being made redundant,  Mr C made a claim under the policy.  Initially,  Great  Lakes 
turned down the claim because Mr C was a director of the company and the policy  excluded  
claims made  by directors. 
Mr C appealed against this decision and provided  evidence that he didnt meet the policy 
definition of a director. Great  Lakes accepted this and agreed to re-assess  the claim. 
Great Lakes arranged for a claims investigator  to interview Mr C. After  the interview had 
taken place, Great Lakes  told Mr C it was turning  down his claim. It thought he was ordinarily  
working outside the UK, which meant cover was excluded under the policy. It also thought 
hed provided  misleading information  about his claim.  Unhappy  with this, Mr C brought  a 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She didnt agree that Mr C 
ordinarily worked outside the UK. And whilst she accepted there  were  some discrepancies 
with Mr Cs evidence, she didnt think this was relevant to Mr Cs own claim. The investigator  
recommended that Great  Lakes deal with the claim.
Great Lakes didnt accept  our investigators recommendations, so the matters been passed  
to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Travelling outside  the UK
I havent seen  the policy  terms and conditions,  but Great Lakes say the policy  contains  the 
following exclusion:
6. When will We not pay Benefits?  
We will not pay Benefit if:
8) You, at the date of Your  Unemployment,:
c) Are Employed  under a contract which required You ordinarily to Work outside  the UK
Ive looked at Mr Cs contract of employment. This says his normal  place of work was at the 
companys UK office, and he agreed  to travel (inside and outside the UK) as may be 
required. The contract also said it wasnt envisaged that he would be required to travel 
outside the UK for periods of longer than one month.
Great Lakes says Mr C falls under the exclusion because during his interview  with the claims 
investigator, he said that he was required to travel outside the UK on a monthly basis.  
Ref: DRN12661752Mr C says that in the 12 months of holding the insurance policy, hed only travelled abroad 
on five occasions  for work, with the total number of days being 18. 
In relying on the exclusion, the onus  is on Great  Lakes to show  that it applies. I dont agree 
that it has done so here. Even  if Great  Lakes  was able to show that Mr C travelled abroad  for 
work on a monthly  basis, that doesnt  mean he was required to ordinarily work outside the 
UK. His contract confirms  that his normal place of work was the UK, and I note he paid UK 
taxes and National  Insurance. Im satisfied from this that he was ordinarily  required  to work 
in the UK, with some travel abroad.
Misleading information given during the claims process
Great Lakes tell us the policy says:
If any claim under this Policy is fraudulent or is intended to mislead Us or if any misleading  
or fraudulent means are used by You or anyone acting on Your behalf  to obtain Benefit 
under this Policy,  Your right to any Benefit under this Policy will end
Great Lakes say that Mr C attempted to mislead  its claims investigator during the interview  
that took place.  
Great Lakes concerns centre around  the fact that three directors of the company (Mr C 
included) made unemployment  claims for redundancy around the same time. During the 
interview, Mr C apparently advised that he was the sole employee being  made  redundant 
and wasnt aware  of other claims being  submitted. However, that wasnt correct  as Mr C had 
apparently signed a claim form submitted  by one of the other  directors, and had also 
recorded minutes of a meeting where  the three  redundancies were discussed.  
I agree  there was a discrepancy  here in Mr Cs evidence. However, like the investigator,  I 
dont think this has any bearing on the validity of Mr Cs claim. If Great Lakes  had concerns 
about the other two claims,  I would have expected it to raise those concerns directly  with 
those claimants rather than Mr C. 
I havent seen  any evidence that Mr C provided  Great Lakes with misleading  information 
relating to his own unemployment claim.  I therefore  agree with our investigator  that it wasnt 
appropriate for Great Lakes to turn down  his claim for this reason.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Great  Lakes Insurance SE to deal 
with the claim under  the remaining policy terms and conditions. Interest should be added  at 
the rate of 8% simple  per annum  from the date each  payment was due to the date of 
settlement. 
I dont know if Great Lakes later cancelled Mr Cs policy, but if it did, then it should remove  
any record of this cancellation from any internal and/or external databases. 
Ref: DRN12661753Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1266175