K820x#14complaint
Mr J is complaining about HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited (trading  as Halifax) 
because he says it failed  to tell him about  all of the options available  for his mortgage 
individual savings  account (ISA) when he made enquiries in the past. Because all of his 
options werent explained, he says he carried on paying into the plan for longer than he 
would otherwise have done.
background
In 1997, Mr J took out a mortgage  ISA plan. It was designed to pay a lump sum to cover his 
mortgage after 25 years  or if he died or became seriously ill before then.
In 2009 and 2010, Mr J made enquiries  about  his plan and decided to continue with it. He 
also made further enquiries and complained about the sale in 2014. That complaint was 
referred to us, but I understand we couldnt look at it because it was referred too late. In the 
end, Mr J closed the plan in 2018.
Halifax didnt agree it had done  anything wrong in previous years. But it did accept it gave Mr 
J wrong information when he first called in 2018  and offered £150 compensation.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  After reviewing the available  
correspondence, he felt Halifax  answered the questions it was asked correctly  and didnt 
provide misleading  information in response to his past enquiries.
Mr J didnt accept the adjudicators assessment.  He says his personal situation was in flux in 
2009/10 and he wanted details of all the options available to him. He says he made this clear 
in his telephone calls and letters at the time and so believed the options Halifax set out was 
a complete list. If hed been given all of his options,  he says he would have reduced his 
payment into the ISA and kept it running  with a reduced  amount  of cover.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions for much the same  reasons. Im not upholding it.
Ive taken account of what  Mr J says was discussed in his telephone conversations  with 
Halifax. But on their own and without  additional supporting evidence, I dont think his 
comments are enough  for me to say he asked for information that Halifax didnt provide. 
Unfortunately, Halifax has told us it doesnt have  call recordings from Mr Js earlier enquiries, 
which makes it difficult for me to establish  exactly what was said. But it has given us its call 
handlers notes  along  with copies  of written correspondence from the time.
As far as I can see, Mr J first called Halifax in January 2009.  According to the call handlers 
notes, he wanted  information about how much hed paid into the plan and how this had been 
split between investment  and life/critical illness cover, the growth it had achieved  and the 
value it might achieve in the future. Halifax responded with two letters  in February  2009  that 
addressed these points.
It seems  Mr J wasnt entirely satisfied with the answers he received and he wrote to Halifax  
on 24 February 2009. This letter asked ten questions, the first nine of which  again  centred 
Ref: DRN14195322on the amount  hed paid, the investment performance and the amount he might  receive  in 
the future.  The final question asked was:
Could you also advise  whether it is possible to cease investing in the investment 
part of this fund and simply pay for life/critical illness cover for the remainder of the 
term of the fund/investment?
Halifax responded in a letter dated 2 April 2009 and gave  the following answer:
Unfortunately it is not possible  to just pay the life cover premium. You may remove 
the life cover and convert the plan to a Halifax ISA Investor which  would mean 
leaving the shares you have bought so far in place but their value would continue  to 
change, or you are permitted to take a payment holiday for up to twelve  months,  but 
the life cover premiums  would be deducted from the units held within your plan.
It seems  Mr J called  again on 16 April 2009  because he hadnt  received the above letter.  In 
response to the call, Halifax wrote:
Thank you for your telephone call today. I apologise  you did not receive my response 
dated 2 April 2009 and enclose a further  copy. Once I have received the historical 
performance figures of the UK Growth  Fund I will pass  these on to you.
If you are concerned about  any of the information  provided, I will do my best to assist 
you. However I am unable to provide financial advice or other  suggestions as to how 
the potential shortfall  may be covered. I can only suggest that you make an 
appointment at your local Halifax  branch  or with your own financial adviser to discuss  
this.
Theres no further record of contact between Mr J and Halifax until September 2010 when he 
called again. This time Halifaxs notes record the call handler  confirmed  the value of the 
investment and said it can be closed, but that hed need to keep the investment amount 
open to keep the life cover in place.  The call handler then recorded Mr J wanted details of all 
the monies paid into the plan and how it would be affected if he moved abroad. 
Following this call, Halifax  wrote to Mr J about  the implications of moving  overseas and also 
explained some  of the other options available to him. As in 2009, these included converting  
the ISA to an investment only plan and taking  a payment holiday.
According to the information I have, Mr J next contacted  Halifax in 2014.  In response to his 
enquiries, it responded as follows on 10 January 2014:
Thank you for your request in regards to the above  plan.
You are able to reduce  to direct debit to a minimum of £20 as long as this is enough 
to cover your Home  Protection benefits charge.
With the Home Plan you are not able to reduce your direct debit for the first five 
years of the plan after that you can reduce your direct debit.
From his correspondence, Mr J is disappointed Halifax didnt tell him he could withdraw part 
of the value of his ISA and continue with it. Although  Halifax  has said the amount of his life 
Ref: DRN14195323and critical illness cover would have been reduced by the amount of any withdrawal, he now 
believes this is what he would have  done.
Full details  of what could  have  done with the plan should have been included  in the terms 
and conditions Mr J should have received when it started. If he didnt receive this 
information, Ive no reason  to think Halifax wouldnt have  provided a copy if hed asked  for it. 
In April 2009, I note Halifax also suggested  he could speak to an adviser,  who would have 
been able to discuss his options  in detail and help him decide what  to do. 
With these points in mind, I dont agree Halifax somehow withheld information from Mr J. I 
note he says he thought it had set out all of the options he had available to him, but I cant 
see that he ever asked for this or that Halifax said thats what it was doing. Ive also seen 
nothing to show Mr J told Halifax he no longer needed the plan for his mortgage or that he 
asked about the option of withdrawing money.  From the available correspondence  and call 
notes, I think he asked  specific  questions  and that the answers given addressed  those. 
Some options were mentioned, but these were  presumably those Halifax  thought most 
relevant to the questions answered and it never  said those were the only options  available.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr J and isnt what he was hoping 
to hear.  But on balance, I think the evidence  shows Halifax made reasonable attempts 
answer the questions  it was asked.
The above  notwithstanding, Halifax accepts it gave Mr J wrong information during a 
telephone call in 2018. While this issue was resolved  promptly, I can see it would have 
caused some unnecessary trouble  and upset. The impact of this error, and therefore the 
amount of compensation due, is difficult to assess. But in the circumstances,  I think  a 
moderate payment  of £150 is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Halifax  has already made an offer to 
pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think this is fair in the circumstances. So if he hasnt 
already received that and now wishes to accept it, my final decision is that HBOS  Investment 
Fund Managers Limited should pay Mr J compensation of £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1419532