K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that esure Insurance Limited unfairly declined his insurance claim for stolen 
items after his home was burgled.
background
Mr G made  a claim on his home insurance  for items  stolen from his home. He believes the 
burglar gained entry  by reaching through the cat flap, and by accessing a key left in the 
inside of the door. He points towards  damage on the cat flap.
A specialist  window and door company was appointed by esure  to inspect the door. But its 
surveyor reported there wasnt any damage  to the door, and although there was a crack in 
the cat flap, they said that this appeared to be old damage. The report  commented that the 
distance from the cat flap to the key on the inside was 690mm,  and the surveyor tried to 
reach the key through the cat flap but was 200mm away. So, in conclusion, the surveyor  
didnt consider it likely the burglar had gained access this way. 
The policy covers theft of contents  from the home. However, it excludes theft when force  and 
violence isnt used  to enter or exit the property. Because the surveyor  didnt find any damage 
to the door, esure didnt consider force and violence had been used, so it declined  the claim.
An investigator here considered Mr Gs complaint,  and she thought it should be upheld. She 
reached this outcome based on her interpretation  of the police report   noting  the police 
thought the key in the door had been  reached via the cat flap. She explained that our 
approach to force and violence doesnt  require damage, and we would consider such 
method of entry to constitute force and violence.  Because esure  disagreed with our 
investigator, the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 16 August 2019.  I explained that based on everything      
I had seen so far, I didnt  intend to uphold  the complaint  but I said I would consider any 
further evidence  or comments I receive.  In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Having thought about matters carefully, I dont  intend to uphold  the complaint.  I appreciate  
that this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, particularly as our investigator reached a 
different outcome. Ill explain my reasons. 
Ill start by addressing  the policy requirement  for force and violence. This service  follows a 
similar approach to that taken by the courts. I note that esure  agrees with our approach to 
force, but not violence.
We typically interpret force as some form of action  or energy being applied  to something,  so 
simply turning a handle  or opening a door.  We typically interpret violence as a level of force 
over and above what would usually be necessary, even if no physical damage was caused.  
So, gaining entry by unnatural means, such as through a cat flap, would usually constitute 
violence.
Ref: DRN19730842The onus is on esure to show, on balance, that the force and violence exclusion applies.  If    
I was persuaded  the burglar had gained entry by reaching through the cat flap, given what 
Ive said above  about gaining access by unnatural  means, I would be satisfied force and 
violence had been used  so I wouldnt be satisfied the exclusion applies. But based on 
everything we have been told or seen, Im not persuaded that access was gained  by 
reaching through the cat flap. 
During the police  visit they didnt make a finding on how entry was gained, only that the back  
door was a point  of access. The report confirms that the police didnt identify any damage to 
the door, or elsewhere  at the property. However,  soon after the visit Mr G emailed the police 
to explain esure required  damage in order to cover his claim;  so he had double  checked and 
found damage to the cat flap  he also asked  the police to amend their report in case esure  
checked it. The police then updated  their report to explain, in view of the damage  found by 
Mr G, the cat flap appears to be the most  likely point of entry.  But in my opinion, its clear  
that this comment is based on Mr Gs own conclusions, rather  than anything  the police 
observed.
Notably, the police didnt undertake any tests to reach the key through the cat flap or make  
any comparisons to other  thefts  reported  in the area.  Im not suggesting they ought  to have 
done  but in the absence of such  commentary  in their report, along with not noting  any 
damage to the cat flap, Im not persuaded I can reasonably rely on the police report to 
conclude the cat flap was the likely  point  of entry.
The surveyor hasnt said why he considered the damage to be old, so Im not persuaded by 
this point alone. But he has explained why he doesnt consider it likely someone  would  have 
been able to reach the key through the cat flap, and in the absence of another  experts 
opinion to the contrary, Im more persuaded by his observations than Mr Gs own 
conclusions.
So, having  carefully considered all the arguments  and information presented, Im persuaded 
esure has, on balance,  shown  that force and violence wasnt used. I consider it more likely 
that access was gained via an unlocked door than the cat flap  and whilst this constitutes  
force, it doesnt constitute violence.  So, in conclusion,  Im not persuaded esure unfairly 
declined Mr Gs claim.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr G provided a report and a video from a locksmith. 
The video footage showed  the locksmith reaching  through the cat flap and quickly unlocking  
the door  by turning  the key on the inside with a piece of wood.  I shared the footage with 
esure and made the following comments.
I explained my provisional findings were based  on the surveyors comments  about not being 
able to reach the key due to the distance  involved.  In view of those comments, I considered 
it more likely that access had been gained via an unlocked  door,  than the cat flap. However, 
in view of the video, I said Im no longer persuaded by what esures surveyor said, but 
rather, Im persuaded that gaining entry via the cat flap was possible.
I reiterated this service would consider entry gained via the cat flap to constitute  violence.     
So, if esure wished  to rely on the force and violence exclusion, it would need  to show,  on 
balance, that entry was more likely gained through an unlocked door  and I wasnt  
persuaded it could  do that due to the video. 
Ref: DRN19730843Therefore, I explained I now intended to decide esure  should  consider Mr Gs claim subject 
to the remaining policy terms;  and reimburse  the cost of his report  (£50).
In response, esure said the following:
-In the video, although the door was locked, the key was only half-turned   a UPVC door 
lock generally turns  all the way around. By being  turned  just passed the locking point it 
facilitated access by the locksmith.
-The locksmith accesses locked  properties for a living. Although the experience of the 
thief isnt known, an assumption  is being made the thief was carrying an appropriate  
length of wood just in case they had to access a cat flap.
-Based  on photos taken by esures surveyor, the cat flap appears to have  been  switched 
around or a new one fitted. If so, the video is not a true reflection of whether the thief 
could have gained  access via the cat flap that was in place at the time.
-Its a concern that Mr G seems  sure access was gained through  the cat flap. This would 
indicate he realised  the cat flap posed  a risk, yet still left the key in the door.  Its for this 
reason esure has the requirement  for violence.
-Although this service  doesnt require damage  for violence, esure finds this difficult  to 
accept  it interprets  violence as an intention to cause harm or damage.
-Simply because a video has been  produced showing this sort of entry is possible, Ive 
accepted that this must have been what happened.
-There are two possible  scenarios. The first is the thief specifically targeted Mr Gs home, 
knowing he had a cat flap, and keys were likely to be left in the door  they approached 
the house with an appropriate  and sizable implement, which enabled them  to take the 
time to crouch down,  manipulate the keys and lock, and eventually gain access.  The 
second scenario  is that the thief was simply opportunistic, trying  various doors  in the 
area, and by chance coming across an unlocked  door at Mr Gs house. Given  the 
location; the back door is hidden from plain view; the items taken; and the overall 
circumstances  esure considers the second scenario more  likely.
Mr G went on to explain that his wife had removed the cat flap to clean it and she put it back 
facing the other way  but he said it operates the same regardless of the way its facing, so 
this wouldnt have made any difference. He also explained that in the initial video the lock 
was fully engaged, but to remove doubt the locksmith re-attended. A second video was 
taken, with the key fully turned. 
I shared the second video and Mr Gs further comments  with esure, to give it an opportunity 
to respond further  before  I reached  my final decision. It emphasised that the locksmith  is a 
professional, and he gained access using a piece of wood that was brought with him or 
supplied by Mr G. On balance, esure  considered it unlikely that the thief possessed the 
same skills  as an experienced locksmith  or carried a piece of wood that was the right 
length needed to turn the key. It also reiterated there wasnt  any violence used.
Ref: DRN19730844my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  I didnt intend  to uphold Mr Gs complaint. However, 
in view of the video evidence, Ive since explained  to esure that my position has changed.     
I will now set out my findings and consider esures further points. I will do so under  the 
following headings:
-does entry via the cat flap constitute  force and violence?
-has esure shown the policy exclusion applies?
-was Mr G reckless?
does entry via the cat flap constitute  force and violence?
I will briefly make the point again,  that the method of entry shown in the locksmiths video is 
enough to constitute force and violence in respect of the approach this service takes. As 
outlined in my provisional decision, and in subsequent email exchanges with esure, we 
follow a similar approach  taken by the courts. In my emails, I outlined  the relevant  
judgements; how we generally  apply them; our remit; and what  that means  for the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I dont consider it necessary to repeat the same level of detail here. But to summarise, this 
services generally take the approach that violence has occurred when a thief has had to 
use a level of force over and above what would  usually be necessary to overcome the 
resistance of a lock, i.e. the lock had to be opened in a non-customary manner. 
In this case, if the thief gained entry as per the video, a level of force above whats  usually 
required would have  been used  an instrument was used to turn the key, and it couldnt 
have been turned otherwise. In any event, even if the key had been reached by hand, 
reaching through a cat flap is not a customary way to open  a door.
As I explained to esure in our email exchanges, in my opinion, if its an insurers intention  to 
require damage  for a theft claim to be accepted,  then its for the insurer  to make that clear in 
its policy terms. Here, the policy terms dont state  damage, but rather esure is simply 
relying on an interpretation of the word violence.
has esure shown the policy exclusion applies?
Our approach is that its for the insured to show, on balance, an insured event occurred. Its 
not disputed Mr G suffered a theft, so Im satisfied that bar has been met. If an insurer then 
wishes to rely on a policy exclusion, the onus switches to the insurer to show,  on balance, 
the exclusion applies. Here, esure is relying on the force and violence  exclusion, so this 
means it needs to show that force and violence wasnt used  by the thief.
I havent simply accepted  the thief gained  entry  via the cat flap. But having decided  that this 
method does constitute force and violence, what I need to decide is whether esure has 
sufficiently shown its more likely  the door was left unlocked.
Ref: DRN19730845The second  video clearly shows the lock engaged  and the key fully turned. So, Im satisfied 
access can be gained via the cat flap. Overall, I also accept Mr Gs explanation  about why 
the cat flap was turned around   and having reviewed the photos,  Im not persuaded this 
would make a difference.
I dont agree with esure that the locksmith demonstrated a particular skillset when unlocking 
the door. It was opened quickly and relatively  easy,  in my view. Im also not persuaded that 
its unlikely the thief would  have  carried some implement with them, or later returned  to the 
property with something of appropriate  size. 
Given the ease  in which the locksmith  gained entry, and that generally speaking doors arent 
routinely left unlocked,  I dont consider  either scenario more likely than the other.  So, Im not 
persuaded esure has shown, on balance, an unlocked door was the more likely method of 
entry. This means Im not persuaded it can fairly apply  the exclusion.
was Mr G reckless?
The policy terms require Mr G to take reasonable care. So, regardless of whether force and 
violence were used,  if I was persuaded Mr G hadnt  taken reasonable care by leaving a key 
in the inside lock, I would likely decide  esure  could fairly decline  his claim.
For esure to show Mr G hadnt taken reasonable care, it would need to demonstrate he had 
been reckless  or in other words, that he recognised  the risk but still deliberately  courted it, 
i.e. by either taking no steps at all or steps that he knew  wouldnt be adequate to avert  the 
risk. This is the recklessness test as set out in a leading legal case about reasonable care. 
However, I dont share esures concern about  Mr G being certain access  was gained via the 
cat flap. In my view,  it doesnt necessarily follow that he recognised  the risk beforehand, but 
rather, he later concluded  that this was the only possible method knowing the door is 
routinely locked and there being no other signs of entry.  
I havent seen  anything that persuades me Mr G recognised the risk of leaving a key in the 
inside lock of a door which  has a cat flap  and I consider it more  likely that he simply now 
recognises the risk with hindsight, following the theft. So, Im not persuaded Mr G was 
reckless.
Ref: DRN19730846my final decision
I appreciate esure will remain disappointed by what I have said here, but for the reasons Ive 
set out above,  and in our email exchanges, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision is esure  Insurance Limited should:
-consider Mr Gs claim subject to the remaining policy terms;
-reimburse Mr G £50 for his first report and video; and
-reimburse Mr G for the second  video, on proof a further fee was paid 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1973084