K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Ms B complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
In March 1999, Mr M and Ms B bought a regular  premium  MPPI policy  to protect  their 
mortgage repayments against accidents, sickness or unemployment in a meeting. Mr C was 
covered by the policy solely.
Mr M and Ms B say they do not believe they were asked any questions  before taking out the 
MPPI policy. They say the policy was not suitable  for Mr M as he had enough  sick pay with 
his employer. They think the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr M and Ms Bs complaint.  As the complaint still isnt 
resolved, it has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Ms Bs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and have  decided  not to uphold 
Mr M and Ms Bs complaint for the following reasons:
In 1999, when Mr M and Ms B were  arranging their mortgage in a meeting, I can see 
from the sales documentation provided that a separate  MPPI  application  form was used. 
This form had a series  of questions on it about  the insurance. I am persuaded after 
seeing this form that a discussion was had around MPPI.  I can see that the MPPI policy 
was also presented as optional on both the mortgage application  and the separate  form.
Im also not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax  or its representatives sold 
these policies at that time. So when I consider what I have in front of me, I cannot  fairly 
conclude on this occasion that Mr M and Ms B were not given a choice to have the policy  
during the sale.
Halifax has said the policy was recommended  to Mr M and Ms B during  the meeting. So, 
as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this was the 
case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr M and Ms B, it had to ensure  during  the 
sale that the policy was suitable for Mr Ms needs (as the sole policy holder).
After reviewing the information provided  to me, it looks like the policy was suitable  for 
Mr M based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time of the sale. Mr M says he 
had some sick pay (between 6 and 12 months) but the benefit provided by the policy 
would have been of use to him in addition to his provisions. I think, on balance,  he would 
have found the cover the policy provided  useful for any extended period of 
unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt  find any other reason such as a significant  or 
limiting term that would make the policies unsuitable for him.
Ref: DRN17595322Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  policy  that   
Mr M and Ms B took out. I can see from the separate MPPI application form used that 
they would  have been clearly  disclosed at the time of sale.  The policy  was affordable  and 
Mr M and Ms B could  have cancelled the policy  at anytime.
Finally Mr M and Ms B have made some points regarding the way Halifax  has handled their 
complaint and in particular  around  its record keeping. Mr M and Ms B would need to 
complain to Halifax in the first instance about the way they have handled this complaint and 
if they are still not happy they can refer the matter to our service  as a separate  complaint. 
In conclusion, I understand  this will come  as a disappointment but in conclusion  I do not 
uphold Mr M and Ms Bs complaint about how the MPPI policy was sold to them in 1999.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr M and Ms Bs complaint about the sale of 
the MPPI  policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M and Ms B 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1759532