K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about CIS General Insurance Limiteds handling  of his motor  insurance 
policy after his car was damaged in a flood.
Reference to CIS includes its agents.
background
Mr As car was damaged by flood  water.  He phoned CIS and it told him his car was a total 
loss. It valued his car at £1,794 so paid him that sum less Mr As excess and an amount for 
him to retain the salvage. It also told Mr A that because his car was a category B total loss it 
couldn't be put back on the road, but he could keep  some  parts  for example the engine. But 
it told him he would  have to provide a notification  of destruction. And as Mr C didn't provide a 
notification of destruction or add another  car to the policy CIS cancelled it.
Mr A didn't  think CIS had dealt with him fairly. In particular he said he hadn't wanted  to claim 
initially and he didn't think CIS should have decided that his car was a category B total loss. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr As complaint. The adjudicator noted that CIS had 
offered to increase its valuation of the car by £200 and he thought CIS had dealt with Mr A 
fairly.
Mr A didn't  agree so his complaint's been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
When Mr A first contacted  CIS it told him that it would deem his car a total loss. Mr A said 
that he wanted to have  a local mechanic look at his car and at that point CIS agreed to 
record the incident as notification only meaning  that Mr A hadn't  actually claimed  on his 
policy. Mr A told us that he didn't ever agree to make a claim and that CIS sent the matter  
down the wrong  route, that is it dealt  with the incident as a claim when thats  not what he 
wanted to happen.
I've listened  to a call between Mr A and CIS in house engineer.  During that call the engineer  
said he considered  the car to be a total loss. And he explained how CIS had calculated  he 
value put on Mr As car. Although  he said if Mr A provided images  of the car it would 
reconsider that. The engineer then took Mr As bank  details and said hed arrange  for the 
amount to settle  the claim to be paid to Mr A. And Mr A said he was happy with that. So, 
while Mr A didn't initially go ahead with the claim against his policy,  he gave every indication 
that he agreed with CIS settling the claim in the manner  that it did during the phone call. He 
didn't dispute the valuation at that stage nor say that he didn't  want to go ahead with the 
claim. So I think it was reasonable that CIS dealt with the matter  as a claim and Mr A agreed 
to receive payment to settle it. I note that after considering the images  that Mr A sent to it, 
CIS offered to increase  its valuation by £200.  But I don't think  that means  that Mr A didn't 
agree for CIS to deal with the matter  as a claim.
Mr A doesn't think it was reasonable that CIS said his car was a category B total loss without 
ever actually inspecting  it. But the engineer told him that it thought the car wasn't safe to go 
Ref: DRN11211232back on the road for a number of reasons. Those included that: the car was potentially  
contaminated by the flood water; it most likely  had damage to the electrics; and the water 
could cause the chassis to corrode. And I think it was reasonable for an engineer  to use his 
expertise to come that conclusion without inspecting  the car. And as such  I also think  it was 
reasonable for CIS to decide that Mr As car was a category B total loss.
Im also aware that Mr A thinks that, before deciding his car was a category B total loss, CIS 
should have given his car special dispensation because he believes it is a classic car and of 
sentimental value  to him. But at the time Mr As car wasn't considered a classic car; he 
didn't insure it as such and the engineer explained  to Mr A that CIS didn't consider the car to 
be a classic. Its clear that Mr A was very attached  to the car, especially given its extremely 
low mileage for its age and its previously pristine  condition. And I can understand he was 
upset that CIS decided  it couldn't  be safely put back on the road. But I don't think those were 
sufficient reasons for CIS to go against  its engineers opinion and deem the car as a different 
category of total loss if it didn't think the car was safe. And its a condition  of Mr As policy  
that his car must be roadworthy. And given CIS believed the car couldn't be safely  brought  
back to a roadworthy condition then I think it was reasonable that it would decide  it was a 
category B total loss and no longer wish to insure it.
I understand that after the flood Mr A had his car repaired and it passed an MOT. But CIS 
engineer had previously  explained that water  entering the car could have done damage  to it 
that wasn't immediately  apparent. So I don't think the fact that the car passed an MOT  
means that CIS total loss categorisation  was wrong. It follows  that I think CIS decision to 
deem the car a total loss and deal with the matter as a claim against Mr As policy was 
reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1121123