K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  on behalf  of the estate of her late father  Mr K about  Age Partnership Limited 
(AP). She says AP wrongly advised Mr K to use the proceeds  of his personal  pension plan 
(PPP) to purchase a single life annuity  which didnt include any provision for his wife, Mrs K, 
once he passed  away.
Although Ms A is the personal representative  of Mr Ks estate, this complaint largely relates  
to her mother, Mrs K. Because  of this, Ill primarily refer to Mrs K below.
background
Mr K had a PPP with a provider  Ill refer to as Provider B. Mr Ks PPP fund value in 2017  
was around £73,000.
On 25 November 2017 Mr K spoke  with an AP representative and enquired  about  the 
income he could  secure with his PPP. To summarise, the following was covered during the 
call:
the AP representative confirmed she couldnt  provide Mr K with any financial advice 
and could only give him information  about  his options, along with answering any 
questions he might have
the AP representative explained  that AP had in-house advisers available  who could  
provide Mr K with financial  advice  if he wanted this. But Mr K said he was happy to 
proceed without receiving advice
the AP representative said she could search  the market  to identify which  provider Mr 
K could  secure  the best income with
Mr K answered a number of health-related questions and provided AP with 
information about the medical conditions he had as well as medication he took
AP outlined what Mr Ks options  were  with his PPP fund including  the choice of a 
single or joint life annuity
AP explained  to Mr K he could  leave a percentage of his pension to Mrs K. But Mr K 
said Mrs K had her own pension and wouldnt require any ongoing income  from his 
AP explained  to Mr K that he could still protect his pension income or fund with a 
guarantee, so Mrs K got something when he passed away.  Mr K asked if including  
this would impact the level of income he received, and AP confirmed it would
AP asked Mr K if he wanted to look at what income he could receive  if death  benefits 
werent included.  Mr K said he did
having carried out a search  AP confirmed with Mr K that a provider Ill refer to as 
Provider J offered Mr K the best income  based  on his fund value and the medical 
enhancement he was entitled to 
AP went through  the income figures  Mr K could  secure with Provider J and Mr K 
confirmed that although  he wasnt desperate for the money he wanted to secure  the 
highest income he could with his PPP fund
Mr K confirmed  he was happy to proceed  with an annuity  with Provider J. AP said it 
would send Mr K the relevant paperwork and arranged a follow up call with Mr K to 
go over any questions  he might have
Following this call, the AP representative  sent Mr K a Your  Pension Income Report 
document, a quote for an annuity with Provider J, a Provider J Key Facts Document, a 
Provider J annuity application form and an Enhanced Annuity Question Form. Mr K was also 
sent an AP Client Agreement.  
Ref: DRN13358222Having reviewed the information AP provided  him with Mr K completed, signed and returned  
the relevant documents  to AP. He confirmed he wished to purchase a single life annuity with 
Provider J. 
Mr K had a follow up call with an AP representative  on 30 November 2017. To summarise, 
the following  was covered  during  the call:
the AP representative confirmed receipt  of Mr Ks documents  and said everything 
was fine apart from the Enhanced  Annuity Question Form Mr K had completed but 
not signed
Mr K agreed to sign the Enhanced Annuity Question Form and send it back to AP
the AP representative asked Mr K if hed consulted the governments  Pension Wise 
website and Mr K confirmed he had
the AP representative said Mr K had chosen  to take his pension in the form of 25% 
Tax Free Cash (TFC) and a single life annuity with Provider  J which didnt include 
death benefits. Mr K confirmed this was correct
Mr K later returned a signed copy of his Enhanced Annuity Question  Form  to AP. Further  to 
this AP began to process Mr Ks annuity  instruction.
 
An AP representative  called Mr K on 22 January 2018. To summarise, the following was 
covered during the call:
AP confirmed it had received  the final up to date quote for Mr Ks annuity  with 
Provider J
AP said the total amount received by Provider  J from Mr Ks PPP with Provider B 
was £73,340.28 
AP confirmed Mr K would receive  £18,335.07 in TFC and a regular income of 
£3,468.82 per year
AP said confirmation  documents  would be sent to Mr K in the post and he was invited  
to contact AP if anything was incorrect or if he had any questions
The Pension Annuity  Completion Quotation Mr K later received from AP confirmed Mr K had 
purchased a single life annuity with no dependants  income, no value protection and no 
guaranteed payment period. Mr K didnt  contact AP further to this. 
Sadly, Mr K passed away on 8 September 2018.
Provider J wrote to Mrs K and said that as Mr K had passed away his annuity payments had 
stopped and his policy had ended. 
Mrs K later complained to Age Partnership. In summary she said:
Mr K purchased his annuity without her knowledge as he dealt with the finances
Mr K had told Mrs Ks brother that if anything happened to him Mrs K would be safe 
as shed have  his pension money
Mr K had been to see his financial  adviser months before purchasing  his annuity and 
been advised he didnt need to take his pension with Provider B 
she was shocked  to see that while Mr K was unwell, hed purchased an annuity  with 
no guarantees or spouses annuity
Ref: DRN13358223it was wrong for AP to sell Mr K an annuity  he didnt need which provided no 
guarantees or a pension for his spouse
although Mr K had signed the paperwork, he was ill, stressed  and clearly  unaware of 
what hed been sold
Age Partnership sent its final response  to Mrs Ks complaint. In summary it said:
during the fact find call of 25 November 2017, its representative explained  the 
different annuity  options available to Mr K. She also explained  that choosing an 
annuity with no guarantees meant  that although  Mr K would receive a higher income, 
payments would cease upon his death. Mr K confirmed he understood this and was 
happy to go ahead with the annuity
during the call on 30 November 2017, APs representative discussed  with Mr K the 
annuity documentation hed been sent as well as the application form hed returned. 
The representative reconfirmed with Mr K that as per the quote, there would be no 
guarantees with the annuity  he as selecting
it was evident  Mr K was made aware both verbally and in writing that the single life 
annuity he selected had no death  benefits and what that would mean in the event of 
his death
Mr K chose  to proceed  with AP knowing it offered a non advised  annuity comparison 
service and it acted on Mr Ks instructions
it didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint
Unhappy with Age Partnerships  response, Mrs K referred her complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators considered the matter  and said she didnt  think Age Partnership had 
done anything  wrong. In summary she said:
Mr K was aware of the implications of choosing a single life annuity  and understood 
no death benefits would be provided
Mr K confirmed  he understood Age Partnership werent providing him with any 
financial advice and was happy  with this
there was nothing to suggest Mr Ks annuity had been mis-sold
Mrs K disagreed. As no agreement could be reached,  the matter was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to say that based on what  Ive 
seen, and despite my sympathy for Mrs K, I wont be upholding  this complaint. Ill explain 
why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of the correspondence, 
arguments and comments made  by both parties,  I have limited  my response  to what  I 
consider to be the issues central to this complaint. That is to say whether AB mis-sold  Mr Ks 
annuity or misled  Mr K in the way Mrs K suggests it did.
I should first say I understand this is an upsetting topic  for Mrs K. Shes no doubt very 
disappointed and concerned about the fact that she wont receive anything from her late 
husbands annuity as she expected. And dealing  with the matter during what must have 
been a difficult  time will have been  upsetting. But I can only uphold  this complaint if I think 
AP has done something  wrong. And from what Ive seen  I dont  think  it has. 
Ref: DRN13358224Mrs K has said AP provided Mr K with financial advice  regarding the purchase of his annuity. 
She says that based on the information  AB gave, Mr K was led to choose an annuity which  
didnt include any provision for Mrs K when  he passed away.  Because of this Mrs K feels  AP 
mis-sold Mr K his annuity. Although I appreciate  Mrs Ks view on the matter, I havent  seen  
anything in the available evidence to support  what shes said. 
AP offers  a non-advised annuity comparison service and an in-house  service where qualified 
financial advisers can provide consumers with recommendations. Having listened to the calls 
Mr K had with AP and carefully reviewed the documentation Mr K was provided with, Im 
unable to find that Mr K requested financial advice from AP or that AP provided Mr K with 
any such advice.
In the first call Mr K had with AP, it was made clear that Mr K could request financial advice if 
he wanted it. Mr K said he didnt want any advice. Following this, the AP representative 
confirmed she couldnt provide Mr K with any recommendation regarding  how he chose to 
take his pension income. She confirmed however that she could outline Mr Ks various 
options, answer his questions, compare the market and identify which  provider could provide 
him with the best income. 
The documentation  Mr K was sent after his initial  call with AP also confirmed no advice was 
being provided. Indeed,  the Your  Pension  Income Report: Pension Annuity said:
This report forms part of our guidance  service and is not advice as to the income option you 
should choose. Whilst I can provide you with the facts and figures regarding your pension-
income options, I cannot give you my opinion nor confirm whether a solution is suitable for 
your circumstances. By using our guidance  service,  you are responsible  for making the 
choices surrounding  your pension income. 
As mentioned during  our conversation, if you would  like to take advice on the best way to 
access your pension savings, Ill happily set up an appointment  with one of our 
professionally qualified and experienced Financial Advisors () You confirm that you do not 
wish to take advice  on this matter ()
APs Client  Agreement  also confirmed no advice  would be provided. It said:
You will not receive any advice or recommendation from us. We may ask some  questions to 
narrow down the selection of products that we will provide details on. You will then need to 
make your own choice about  how to proceed.
Mr K was invited by AP to contact it if anything in its report  was incorrect or didnt make  
sense. Im mindful that Mr K didnt contacted AP following the documentation he received,  
either to say he had requested financial advice or that he was under the impression he was 
receiving any advice  from AP. 
Based on the available evidence Im satisfied AP didnt provide Mr K with financial advice 
regarding the purchase of his annuity  and that this was made  clear  to Mr K both over the 
phone and in the correspondence  AP sent him. Because  of this I cant say that AP mis-sold 
Mr Ks annuity or that it was responsible for the suitability of the retirement choices  Mr K 
made in 2018.  
While AP didnt provide Mr K with financial advice I do think it still had a responsibility to 
ensure Mr K had enough information so he could make an informed decision about  
Ref: DRN13358225purchasing an annuity  with Provider  J. AP also had a duty to process  the instruction it 
received from Mr K correctly. From what Ive seen AP fulfilled its responsibility in both these  
instances. Ill explain why.
Having listened  to Mr Ks three telephone calls with AP and carefully reviewed the 
documentation AP provided to Mr K I dont find that AP failed  to provide Mr K with adequate 
information about the options available to him. Especially regarding  the matter of provisions 
Mr K could make so Mrs K could benefit  from his annuity if he passed  away.
During the initial call the option of purchasing a joint life annuity  was discussed with Mr K, as 
was the option to include a guarantee period or value protection.  Mr K said he was happy to 
proceed with a single life annuity where these benefits werent included. This was also 
confirmed in Mr Ks second  call with AP. It seems Mr K was looking to secure the highest 
income he could  and understood that including these benefits wouldve reduced  the income 
he received- he specifically asked  AP about  this in the initial  call. 
Having carefully reviewed the documentation  AP provided Mr K with along  with the 
application forms Mr K filled in I consider:
it was sufficiently clear  what  Mr Ks annuity  options were
of the options provided the following were included- the purchase of a single or joint 
life annuity and fund protection, either with value protection  or a guarantee period
Mr B chose an annuity on a single life basis without any protection  and the 
implications of this were clearly outlined
Against the annuity choices Mr K selected I note the following summaries were included:
Annuity  type
Single life. You have chosen  a single life annuity. This will pay out a pension income for 
the whole  of your life but will not continue to pay an income  to your spouse or partner after 
you die. As a result  your pension income  will be higher if you choose  a joint life annuity. 
Joint life. If you had chosen a joint life annuity, this would provide an income for your 
spouse of partner after you die () It would reduce your income amount while  you are alive.
Ref: DRN13358226Fund protection. 
No protection. You have chosen not to protect  your  annuity. This means  that the 
annuity will cease with no further payments made  when they last surviving policy holder 
passes away.
Value protection. You could have  chosen  to protect  up to 100% of your fund using Value 
Protection, instead of no protection. Choosing this option allows  () allows for a lump sum 
to be payable toy our beneficiaries when all policyholders pass  away () If you would like 
me to calculate the impact of adding value protection, please contact me. 
Guarantee period.  You have chosen  not to guarantee your income. You could have chosen  
to guarantee your income () (), and this would mean  that your estate  would benefit  from 
your pension () even  if all policyholders were to pass away () Please contact me if you 
would like me to provide  a quotation with a guarantee.
Mr K was invited to contact AP if he wanted  to change the option he selected or wanted 
further information about another  option. He didnt  do this. If the contents of the 
documentation AP provided Mr K with was at odds  with or didnt completely match what he 
understood about his annuity options following his call with AP I wouldve expected Mr K to 
raise this with AP directly  or make use of the cancellation rights he was provided with. The 
fact that Mr K didnt  indicates to me that he was satisfied with the selection hed made and 
understood the basis on which his PPP was to be settled. Mr K chose to proceed  with an 
annuity with Provider  J. He completed and signed the annuity application form which  
confirmed he wanted to purchase  a single life annuity with no value protection  or guarantee 
period. Mr K confirmed his choice during his second and third calls with AP.
Im also mindful that once  Mr Ks annuity  was set up, AP invited  him to contact it if, upon 
reviewing the Pension Annuity Completion Quotation it had sent him, anything appeared 
incorrect. This document confirmed again  that Mr K had purchased  a single life annuity with 
no guarantees or protection. Specifically the document said:
() please be aware that, unless illustrated in this completion quotation  and subsequently 
detailed in the policy documentation,  no income  will be payable to your surviving spouse or 
partner in the event of your death.
Mr K never contacted  AP after this to query the basis on which his annuity had been  set up 
or to say it hadnt  been set up incorrectly in line with his wishes.
I know Mrs K feels strongly Mr K wouldve chosen  an annuity that provided for her in the 
event that he passed  away. And I certainly  dont  doubt what Mrs K has said about Mr K 
having always said shed  be looked after. But I must also have regard for what Mr Ks 
documented and verified choices were. I cant say precisely why Mr K made  the choice he 
did. But Im unable to find that AP failed to meet its responsibility to provide Mr K with 
sufficient information  regarding his annuity options  or that it failed to process  his annuity 
instructions accordingly.  
I understand Mrs K has concerns Mr K was too unwell and confused to decide to purchase 
the annuity he did. Id like to assure  Mrs K Ive thought  carefully about what shes  said. But 
based on the available evidence, particularly the recordings of calls Mr K had with AP, I dont 
think theres anything  to suggest Mr K didnt understand what  was being discussed. 
Ref: DRN13358227Although Mr K told AP about his health issues, there  was nothing to suggest he didnt have 
the capacity to make a reasoned decision about  his PPP.
Its very unfortunate  Mr K didnt benefit from his lifetime annuity for long, but, taking 
everything into account, I dont think AP mis-sold  it to him or mis-led him about it in any way.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs K is hoping for and dont doubt  her sincerity or 
strength of feeling  in bringing  this complaint  with the help of her daughter. But for the 
reasons outlined above, I dont think there  are any grounds here for me to reasonably 
conclude that AP has done  anything  wrong  regarding the issues  Mrs K has raised. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2020.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1335822