K822xcomplaint
Ms B complains  that Western Circle Ltd (trading  as Cashfloat) lent to her in an irresponsible  
manner.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
December 2019.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Ms B has said she 
has nothing further  to add. Cashfloat hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new or further evidence or comments I see no reason to alter the conclusions  
I reached in my provisional  decision.
I dont think Cashfloat  should have agreed to lend to Ms B from loan 5 onwards. Cashfloat 
needs to pay Ms B some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Cashfloat  should have agreed to lend to Ms B after,  and including, the loan that 
she took on 8 June 2017 (loan 5). So for each of those loans Cashfloat should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Ms B on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken from loan 5 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  5 to 9 should be removed from Ms Bs credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN11948622my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Ms Bs complaint and direct  Western Circle Ltd to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11948623EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms B complains  that Western Circle  Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
Ms B was given 9 loans by Cashfloat between September 2016 and April 2018. Each  of the loans 
was due to be repaid in monthly instalments.  All of Ms Bs loans have been fully repaid and a 
summary of her borrowing from Cashfloat is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount Number  of 
Instalments
1 16/09/2016 30/11/2016 £  200 2
2 01/12/2016 31/01/2017 £  350 2
3 08/02/2017 31/03/2017 £  200 2
4 05/04/2017 31/05/2017 £  250 2
5 08/06/2017 31/07/2017 £  250 2
6 31/07/2017 03/11/2017 £  500 2
7 21/12/2017 28/02/2018 £  250 2
8 14/03/2018 29/03/2018 £  450 3
9 09/04/2018 17/05/2018 £  500 4
Ms Bs complaint  has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think Cashfloat had been 
wrong to give the first three loans to Ms B. But she didnt  think  Cashfloat should have agreed to lend 
the remaining loans. So she asked Cashfloat to pay Ms B some compensation. Cashfloat  didnt agree  
with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Ms B could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly  and reasonably have done more  
to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN11948624the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish  whether  
Ms B could  sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable  on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the FCAs Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Ms Bs complaint.
Cashfloat did some checks before it lent to Ms B. It asked her for details  of her income,  and her 
normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file before  agreeing the loans.  Although I havent seen 
the results of each of those checks  Cashfloat  has provided the information it received before agreeing 
loan 8 so I have  a reasonable understanding of the sort of information  Cashfloat would have seen.  
Although the checks would have shown  that Ms B appeared to have had problems  managing her 
credit a few years before,  there  werent  any recent indicators of problems  such  as defaults  or county  
court judgements that I think should have caused additional concerns to the lender.
I think  that the checks Cashfloat did before agreeing the first four loans were  proportionate. The 
amounts that Ms B needed to repay were small compared with the disposable  income shed declared. 
Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Ms Bs circumstances at the time, and her 
borrowing history with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Cashfloat to ask her 
for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
agreeing the first four loans. 
Our adjudicator thought that by loan 4 Cashfloat should have concluded that Ms B might have been 
struggling to manage  her finances since she had been taking new loans  within a short  period of time 
from clearing her previous  loans.  Whilst Id agree  that this behaviour should  have caused some 
concerns to Cashfloat, I dont think that, by this time, those concerns would have been great enough 
for me to conclude that Cashfloat shouldnt  lend any further.
But looking  further at the overall pattern  of Cashfloats lending history with Ms B I think  by loan 5 the 
lender should reasonably have  seen  that further lending  was unsustainable,  or otherwise  harmful. 
And so Cashfloat should have realised that it shouldnt provide further loans. 
I say this because:
This was now Ms Bs fifth loan request  in just under nine months. Ms B regularly borrowed 
similar amounts very shortly after she had repaid  an earlier loan. I think  that pattern of 
frequent borrowing  should have indicated  to Cashfloat  that Ms B was most  likely having  
significant problems managing her money. 
Ref: DRN11948625When Ms B asked for loan 5 she wasnt making  any inroads to the amount she owed the 
lender. Loan 5 was followed immediately  by loan 6. Loan 6 was by far the largest  loan Ms B 
had taken  to date.  
If Cashfloat  had done better  checks  it would have seen that Ms B was borrowing  heavily from 
a number of other short term lenders. At times Ms B had up to eight other loans outstanding  
at the same time as she was borrowing from Cashfloat. That should have been a clear 
indicator that Ms B was most likely borrowing to repay other  lending, and so would likely  need 
to borrow from elsewhere to repay  the loans she was taking  from Cashfloat.
I have  noted there was a short gap between loans 6 and 7. But I dont think that was 
anywhere near long enough to give Cashfloat any confidence that Ms Bs finances had 
stabilised. 
I think  that Ms B lost out because Cashfloat continued  to provide borrowing  from loan 5 onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Ms Bs indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications on Ms Bs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost  loans.
I have seen that Cashfloat  has said that Ms Bs declared  income compared to her monthly 
repayments suggests these  loans were  suitable. Therefore it does not accept the loans  provided were  
unaffordable. But Cashfloat  will know from previous  decisions (as well as whats set out on our 
website) that there are cases where  this service  considers the overall lending pattern and not just the 
affordability of each  loan. When a consumer borrows  numerous loans over a long period of time, its 
most likely that the loans  arent being used for their intended purpose of temporary cash  flow 
problems. As Cashfloat will have seen, the FCA made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs  of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending 
patterns. And I think  thats the case here.
So I dont currently think Cashfloat should have agreed to lend to Ms B from loan 5 onwards. 
Cashfloat needs to pay Ms B some compensation.
Ref: DRN1194862