K821x#15Complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc has chased him to pay back  an overdraft debt it 
previously told him he didnt need to repay.  
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial findings are set out in my provisional  
decision dated 24 January 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Mr Ds complaint should be upheld and 
what Santander should do to resolve it. I said I intended to tell Santander to pay Mr D £200.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr D and Santander responded and confirmed  they accepted the provisional decision. 
As both parties have  accepted I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached  in my 
provisional decision. I still think Mr Ds complaint  should be upheld and that Santander  
should pay him £200. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr D 
£200. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN12068712Copy Provisional Dercision 24 January  2020
Complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc has chased him to pay back an overdraft  debt it previously  told 
him he didnt  need to repay.  
Background
Mr D had an overdraft with a bank that was part of Santander. In 2013 a debt advice  organisation got 
in touch with Santander  and offered it £1 per month towards  the debt. 
Santander wrote back on 22 November 2013 and said: 
We have received proposals  via a third party debt advisor but due to the low level of contribution  
offered we are not able to agree a formal  debt management  plan. However, as you are experiencing 
financial difficulties we will stop our collections activity together with any interest and fees.
We will continue to send statements and notices  required under the Consumer Credit Act 1974,  
including a Default Notice. We may also need to record your account as being in default with the 
credit reference agencies with which we share data in due course. However, we will not be asking for 
any other payments.
Santander issued a default in February 2014 and says its sent Mr D annual statements concerning 
the outstanding balance ever since. In November  2018 the debt was passed to a third party  to collect 
and Mr D complained.  
Santander responded  on 22 January 2019 but didnt agree it had made a mistake.  Santander 
accepted that it had told Mr D that it wouldnt ask for any further payments but said that was on the 
premise that he was dealing with a debt management company and would  be making payments 
towards the outstanding debt outside a formal repayment plan. As no payments were  made, 
Santander took the step of referring  the debt to a third party for collection in November  2018.  
Mr D referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator.  He didnt uphold Mr 
Ds complaint and said Santander had acted fairly by asking Mr D to repay the outstanding balance. 
Mr D asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr D is so upset. Santander says its letter dated 22 November 2013  only said 
that it wouldnt ask for any further payments on the premise that Mr D was working  with a third party  
debt service and would  make payments  towards the account. But thats not what the letter  says. If 
Santander wanted to add a premise for its agreement not to ask for payments again in the future it 
should have made that clear. And, having read the letter a number of times, Im satisfied that 
Santander failed to make  its intentions clear  to 
Mr D when it wrote to him. Whilst  it may not have been the intention  to write off Mr Ds debt, I think his 
interpretation was reasonable. 
But I have to balance  that against the fact that Mr D did have an overdraft with Santander and didnt 
repay it in full. Generally  speaking,  if someone has borrowed money its fair that they repay  it. 
In this case, Mr D says he didnt hear from Santander for over four years and that appears to be 
correct. Hes told us that he moved  several times and Santander  says he didnt update  his address. 
But, given Santander had written to Mr D in November  2013 and advised it wasnt  going to ask for any 
Ref: DRN12068713further payments  then wrote  to him in February 2014 to advise the account had been defaulted, I 
wouldnt expected  him to update his correspondence information. As far as Mr D was aware, no 
further action was required.  As a result, Mr D says he didnt receive any of the annual statements 
Santander sent and wasnt aware of the outstanding balance until November 2018. 
I dont think Santander acted unfairly  by passing the debt to a third party to collect.  Ultimately, the 
debt remains unpaid and whilst Santanders letter was poorly worded Im satisfied there was more 
than one interpretation. I dont think Santander intended to formally  write off the outstanding  balance 
when it wrote to Mr D on 22 November 2013. As a result, Im not going  to tell Santander to recall the 
debt from the third party or to stop its collections activity.  Santander and the third party are obliged to 
ensure any payment arrangement it may reach with Mr D is affordable and sustainable. 
Ive thought about the fairest way to resolve this complaint. Having done  so Ive reached a different 
decision to the investigator. I think  the complaint should be upheld  as Santanders  letter  dated  22 
November 2013 was very unclear and led Mr D to believe he wouldnt have to make  any additional 
payments to the outstanding debt. As a result,  after four years of no contact the request from a third 
party to pay the overdraft balance  back was particularly  frustrating and upsetting.  Whilst  Im not telling 
Santander to waive the remaining balance, I do think a reasonable level of compensation  for the 
distress and inconvenience  this situation has caused Mr D is fair. As a result, I intend to uphold this 
complaint and tell Santander  to pay Mr D £200 which  I think fairly reflects the impact of the issues 
raised on Mr D. 
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr 
D £200.  
Mr D and Santander  have  until 24 February 2020 to send me any additional  comments or information  
they would like me to consider before I make my final decision. 
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1206871