K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society put a block  on his current account which 
meant he wasnt able to access his money  for nearly  two weeks.
Background
On 20 December 2018 Nationwide placed a block on Mr As account. When  he called 
Nationwide it told him he would need to visit a branch with proof of the source  of some funds 
hed transferred into his account the previous day.
Mr A did this the next day but the block wasnt lifted immediately.  He contacted Nationwide  
who said it would respond within five working days which, due to the Christmas period, 
would be by 2 January  2019. Mr A wanted  it resolved sooner than that because  he was due 
to fly abroad on 29 December 2018. Nationwide  unblocked Mr As account on 
2 January 2019. Mr A complained to Nationwide about the time it had taken to unblock his 
account. He said hed had to cancel  his flight and stay in a hotel for several days  as the 
tenancy on the property hed been  renting had expired on 29 December 2018. He said hed 
lost about £1,000 due to this issue.
Nationwide didnt agree  it needed to pay Mr A any compensation.  As Mr A wasnt happy with 
this response,  he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Nationwide had blocked  Mr As account  for a valid reason. He also 
thought the block had been removed in a reasonable timeframe.  So whilst he recognised the 
inconvenience Mr A had suffered, he didnt feel it would be fair to ask Nationwide to pay him 
the compensation he was asking for.
Mr A still doesnt think its fair that Nationwides actions left him without access  to his money  
for so long. So the case has been passed  to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr A will be disappointed,  but Ive 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator  and for much the same reasons.
On 20 December 2018 Nationwide put a block on Mr As account.  He was frustrated by this 
but Nationwides terms and conditions explain that it can stop money being paid into or taken 
out of an account  if it believes its reasonably necessary to do so, for example because its 
concerned about  the security of the card or account. 
Banks have legal and regulatory  obligations  which mean they cant always guarantee when 
transactions are able to be made, or that the funds in an account will be available  at all 
times. I appreciate Mr A feels Nationwide could have handled this situation  differently. But 
its not my role to review the process Nationwide have in place, but to determine if it was 
followed in a fair and reasonable way. Nationwide felt the nature of this transaction was 
unusual, and Im satisfied it acted reasonably in blocking the account whilst it made its 
investigation.
Ref: DRN13319262Ive also considered whether Nationwide took measures  to minimise the inconvenience to 
Mr A. Customers in this situation  will always experience a certain  amount of inconvenience. 
Mr A says hes lost about £1,000 due to the length of time it took Nationwide to investigate  
his complaint and unblock  his account,  so I can appreciate his frustration. However, Ive 
considered whether Nationwide lifted the block on his account in a reasonable timeframe 
and I think it did. Ill explain why.
As Ive already  said, Nationwide  blocked Mr As account on 20 December 2018 and 
unblocked it on 2 January  2019. As Mr A has pointed out, that is almost  two calendar weeks.  
However, due to the Christmas holiday period it was only five working days. I can see that 
when Mr A called  Nationwide on 20 December 2018 it explained the timescales  and said it 
would aim to respond by 2 January 2019. So it did what it said it would do. 
It clearly caused Mr A a great deal of inconvenience and money when he wasnt able to use 
his account during this period. He had to cancel  his flight and his holiday and had to move to 
a hotel for a few days. So hes understandably upset. But Im satisfied Nationwide  didnt do 
anything wrong  when it applied the block to Mr As account, and I think it lifted it in a 
reasonable timeframe. So, while I appreciate Mr A will be very disappointed  with my 
decision, I dont  think it would be fair to ask Nationwide to pay him any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1331926