K820x#14complaint
The late Mrs B and her representative complained that The Prudential Assurance Company  
Limited had hidden a Guarantee Charge that has only recently appeared on her bond  
statement, and that this charge seems excessive.
background
The Pru rejected the complaint. It said that while this charge had not been shown on 
statements till recently it had always been  there, and all charges should  have  been  
confirmed at the inception of the policy.
It said the Guarantee  Charge was in place to guarantee that it will not apply a Market  Value 
Reduction (MVR) when a payment is made. It accepted that this was not made clear on its 
statement and there was an implication that this might be an annually occurring charge.
It also said that the With-Profits Fund,  in which  this policy is invested, had no explicit 
charges. The bonuses declared  are set with reference to investment returns  minus an 
annual charge made for expenses, distributions to shareholders, and an allowance  for any 
profit or loss from other sources, and was reviewed  each  year as part of the process for 
setting bonus  rates. Due to the complex nature of the calculations  involved, it was unable  to 
confirm exactly what portion of the charge is attributed to marketing, administration or 
investment management.
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel the complaint should be upheld as he felt the Prus 
recent explanation  was satisfactory. He felt the charge was not a specific deduction  to the 
policy but a fund-related charge accounted  for as part of the final bonus calculation.  
He also thought the amount shown  in the statement was indicative of the size of this charge 
and only shown in last year's statement as this was the first time money  had been  withdrawn  
from the bond. It represented those charges applied over the course of the investment. He 
also explained that any final bonus  was not guaranteed and this accounted for the guarantee 
charge. Overall, he was satisfied that this was a legitimate charge that the Pru could apply.
Mrs Bs representative did not agree, and said he was concerned that the policy already 
included the guarantee  of no MVR and that Mrs B had been  charged for this. He said he 
thought that being  charged £400 for something  she already had was unacceptable.  
The adjudicator replied,  saying that he was still convinced that this was a charge applied  to 
the fund rather  than the policy and one that would  always be applied to pay for the 
guarantees. And that it was only more  recent  guidelines that have led to it being shown on 
the statement  when  making a withdrawal.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand  why Mrs B and her representative  were surprised and bemused by the 
sudden appearance of this charge in the recent statement. The Pru admits this had not been  
shown before and it did not make clear what it accounted for or why it was showing it now for 
the first time. 
Ref: DRN15027422Having thoroughly read the relevant sections it is far from clear whether this charge is, in 
effect, part of the annual  management charge or a separate figure.  So it is no surprise  if 
most customers would  find this confusing. I hope  the Pru will do something to make  this 
clear in future statements to its customers.
However, I dont find it contradictory  that the policy had a guarantee that there would be no 
MVR and yet charged for this, even though it did not make this explicit  till recently. Also,  
having sought further clarification from the Pru, I am not persuaded it has done anything 
wrong and/or was not contractually able to levy such a charge.
I firstly asked  for clarification over what the £408  deduction represented. Was this the total 
guarantee charge applied over the lifetime of the policy?  It replied, No, this was the 
guarantee charge applied for the statement period  May 2017 to May 2018. However, it is 
only applied  on money exited from the bond in that statement period, so only £20,000 has 
been removed  from the bond in its lifetime, this is the only guarantee charge  that has been 
applied in the lifetime of this bond.
It also clarified that the guarantee  charge has always  been applied. It is applied  to the fund 
prior to smoothing. The only reason that it is now shown on the statements  is due to 
changes made during  a Modernising Annual Benefit  Statement project,  which were 
regulatory changes  to make statements and charges  clearer  to clients.
It also explained that the the final bonuses are set by targeting  the unsmoothed values of 
the fund, adjusted by the guarantee charge. Thus, the final bonuses automatically  include an 
allowance for the guarantee  charge. The guarantee charge is not deducted twice.
Overall, while  I can fully appreciate the late Mrs Bs concerns  about  the sudden  appearance 
of a guarantee charge  I am satisfied that the Prus  overall explanation  makes sense even 
though it would not have  been clear to a typical customer from the statements sent out.
Finally, I recognise that Mrs Bs representative/representative of her estate is very 
disappointed that the Pru has not supplied all the additional  information he has requested,  
and that he believes  this would strengthen the grounds for this complaint. But I am satisfied 
that I have  received sufficient information to make a fair and reasonable decision about the 
merits of this complaint,  and dont believe that further documentation is required.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the representative 
of Mrs Bs estate to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1502742