K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc, trading as Abbey  National  (Santander),  mis-sold 
him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background and findings
I issued my provisional decision on 11 December 2018, a copy  of which is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I was intending 
not to uphold Mr Ws complaint against Santander that the PPI policy  was mis-sold. But that 
Santander would have to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
 
I invited all parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision. 
Neither party has responded to the provisional decision.
So Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments already submitted to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, Ive 
reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision and for the same  
reasons. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint that the PPI policy  was mis-sold   
so Santander  does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19557012extract decision dated 11 December 2018
background
In 2009, Mr W took out a secured loan with Santander. He was sold a PPI policy to protect the 
repayments on his loan if he wasnt able to work  because  of an accident,  sickness or unemployment. 
It also covered the loan if Mr W passed away.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. This was because  she didnt think  Santander 
had been able to show itd made it clear  to Mr W that:
- the circumstances in which a person  who was employed on a fixed-term  contract (FTC) could  make an 
unemployment claim were quite limited. And, as Mr W was employed  on a FTC, she didnt think he 
wouldve taken it out if Santander had made this clearer.
- he wouldnt be entitled to a proportionate refund  of the cost of the PPI if he cancelled it early.  And she 
thought he wouldve  wanted the flexibility to settle his loan or cancel  his policy early.
Santander disagreed. It says theres a discrepancy between the employment status of Mr W at the 
point of sale.  Mr W put in the PPI Questionnaire which he sent to our service that he was employed 
by W. And he told the adjudicator he was on a FTC. Santander also explained that Mr W says his 
employment started with W in February 2009. But it sent us evidence that it started in January 2008.
Our adjudicator asked for some evidence of - or further testimony about - Mr Ws employment status  
at the point  of sale and, if it was a FTC, when it started and how often it was renewed. Mr W has 
explained that after such a long time, he doesnt have any evidence  about  this. 
The case has now been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done so, Im currently not intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint that the policy was mis-sold. 
Ill explain why.
 I think Santander  made it clear that  Mr W didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take  it out  
although I can understand  why he cant remember this.
Santander says that its records show the PPI was sold over the internet  when Mr W applied for a loan 
through the Santander website and that the policy wasnt recommended to Mr W. Mr W cant remember 
that much about the sale, including how it was sold to him. 
Santander has provided  a copy of the online screen shot that it says Mr W wouldve seen  at the time  of the 
sale. There is a question Do you want to take  out insurance cover to protect your payments? with an 
option to either tick yes or no. Both options are equally prominent. Just under  this question, it refers to 
the PPI as being optional  and separate to the loan. It gives some limited  information about the PPI and 
says that it wont give advice on any insurance so its the customers responsibility  to check the cover is 
suitable. Under this is another tick box that needed  to be marked in order to confirm that  Mr W 
understood this information. So I think it was made clear that the PPI was optional and Mr W took it out 
knowing he had a choice.
Ref: DRN19557013Santander didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr W got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information  Santander  gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But 
he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen  of his 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover  - so it wouldve been useful for him if something went wrong. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI wouldve  put him off taking  out the cover.
As mentioned  above, the PPI questionnaire  completed by Mr W said he was employed with W at the point 
of sale. And the evidence  from Santander confirms his employer was W and his employment  with it started 
in January 2008. Overall  the evidence is limited but what I have seen suggests that Mr W was an employee 
of W at the point of sale. Even so, whilst I accept its possible that Mr W was on a FTC, this doesnt 
necessarily mean that  the PPI was unsuitable for him. The PPI covered people  employed on FTCs in certain 
circumstances, for example,  where the contract was for at least 12 months and had been  renewed once. 
Taking this into account, I havent seen any evidence  which  would allow me to safely say that  Mr W wasnt 
covered by the PPI.
 
 Mr W wouldnt have received a proportionate refund  relative to the money that hed paid if he cancelled 
the PPI early. This made the terms of cancellation inflexible as Mr W couldve lost out financially if he chose 
to refinance or cancel  his loan. However,  I havent seen any history of consolidating debts with Santander 
which would  suggest this was something that  would apply to Mr W. So, even if Santander had drawn Mr 
Ws attention to this term, I dont  think it more  likely that  this wouldve put Mr W off taking PPI out.
 I think there are some concerns with the way Santander gave  the cost of the policy  to Mr W. I say this as no 
quote or indication was given to him at the point  he was asked to indicate  whether he wanted to buy PPI. 
However, Ive also taken into account that Mr W subsequently  received a credit  agreement  to sign if he 
wanted to accept the loan. This agreement had the full breakdown of the policy cost on it, and at this 
point, Mr W still had the option not to take out the policy. He was asked again to confirm that  he wanted 
to buy PPI in the credit agreement.  He ticked to confirm he did and also signed to confirm  this separately to 
signing for the loan.
This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Santander  has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Santander got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have  told Mr W about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said but these points dont  change  my decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not currently intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint that the PPI policy  
was mis-sold   so Santander does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
Ref: DRN19557014But Santander  UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further 
compensation.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1955701