K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a car he obtained under a Conditional Sale Agreement with Close  
Brothers Limited on 27 November 2017  was not of satisfactory quality. He wants  to either 
reject the car or for the car  to be repaired.
background
Mr C entered into a Conditional Sale Agreement with Close Brothers on 27 November
2017 for a car that was three  years  old. Five months  into the agreement,  the car needed a 
new engine  which would cost around £13,000  as the engine was no longer made. Mr C 
believes the car was not of satisfactory quality when he got it.
Close Brothers commissioned  an expert report and based on its findings did not uphold  his 
complaint. The report states; "It is unclear what the root cause of the failure  is, however the 
failure has resulted  in metallic swarf contamination of the entire engine... The engine  would  
most likely have been very noisy and may have  consumed excessive amounts of oil prior to 
the complete failure of the engine".
The report  also states: "It is my opinion that it would not have been possible to cover  5000 
miles with the issue present... There is no evidence to suggest  driving  style was the cause of 
the failure. In light of the report Close  Brothers, stated that the fault wasn't present when Mr 
C entered into the finance agreement therefore  it informed  Mr C that it wouldn't
be able to help with repairs. 
The investigator upheld  the complaint, she noted that a car must be of satisfactory quality, 
when acquired,  the car went wrong  in the first 6 months and although it was three years old 
it had only covered 14,000 miles when he got it. Notwithstanding the report, the investigator 
concluded that the car was not of satisfactory  quality when he entered  into the agreement.  
She explained that satisfactory quality also covers  durability  and with cars this means that 
the components  within the car must be durable  and last a reasonable amount of time. 
Exactly how long a reasonable  period of time is will depend  on a variety  of factors.  The car 
Mr C acquired  was only three years old and it had covered around 20,000 miles before the 
engine completely broke down needing a replacement. She noted  that the cost of the engine 
repair was £13,000,  which is more than half of the total value of the finance agreement itself.  
Considering the age and mileage of the car it's not unreasonable  for Mr C to have expected  
the engine to have been much more durable  and last a reasonable period of time after 
purchase than it has done. She didnt think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the time Mr 
C entered into the agreement. She recommended that Close Brothers:- accept termination of 
the finance agreement;   recover the car at no cost to Mr C; refund the advance payment  of 
£500; refund  the monthly instalments from the point that the car went into the garage in April 
to date and include  8% interest.
Close Brothers did not agree based on the expert  report. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was obtained. 
The expert report does  state that the car would not have  been able to travel 5,000  miles if 
the problem had been present when the car was obtained by Mr C. This report  also states 
Ref: DRN10922772that there  is no evidence  the problem is down to driving style. I agree with the investigator 
that its unreasonable for the consumer to expect such a significant fault to arise just five 
months into the agreement. Even  though the car was not new and was three  years  old it had 
only driven 20,000  miles when the engine (a significant and costly  component) failed and 
after Mr C had only driven around  5,000 miles. Whilst I note the expert  report, I find that the 
car engine  should not have failed after only 20,000 miles (and it was not down to driving 
style). The engine  will cost around  £13,000  - the overall agreement is around £19,000 - 
therefore it's unfair and unreasonable to expect Mr C to bear the cost of this or be left with a 
car he has no use of. I find the car was not of satisfactory quality when obtained taking into 
account durability.  It is not reasonable for the engine to fail  when the car travelled only  
20,000 miles.
I find that the car was not of satisfactory  quality  when Mr C got it, the engine  would not be 
expected to fail after just 20,000 and when  he had only owned the car 5 months. I therefore 
uphold this compliant.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Close  Brothers Limited is ordered to;
1.accept termination  of the finance  agreement;
2.recover the car at no cost to Mr C
3.refund  the advance  payment of £500
4.refund  the monthly instalments from the point  that the car went  into the garage (April 
2018)  to the date of settlement
Pay interest at 8% simple  from the date of payment  until the date of settlement on items  
3 and 4 above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Clare Hockney
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1092277