K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains, in his own right and on behalf of the late Mrs C that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-
sold them  payment protection  insurance (PPI) in connection with their mortgage in1993.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr H and Mrs C case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mr H and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that they chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why Mr H cant  remember this. 
The sale took place  over 25 years ago and so its understandable that Lloyds no longer 
have all the documentation available from the time of the sale. However, Ive seen a 
copy of the mortgage  application form and the mortgage loan agreement. There is 
nothing on these  forms which suggests  that PPI was compulsory  the application form 
makes it clear that home insurance  is necessary but says nothing about PPI having to be 
taken out. Ive also seen a copy of the loan assessment  form and this suggests that PPI 
had been selected.  And from my understanding of the sales  process Mr H and Mrs C 
would have had to complete a separate PPI application form if they wanted to take PPI.
 Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H and Mrs C so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think 
that it was. Although  Mr H has told us about his medical condition, I note that Mr H was 
working at the time of the sale and I havent seen any evidence  which  would suggest to 
me that Mr H had to take any significant  length  of time off work  because of his condition. 
Mr H could have claimed for other medical  conditions and also could  have made a claim 
if he lost his job. So in all the circumstances I dont think  the existence of this particular  
medical condition  meant that the policy was unsuitable for Mr H.
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
 Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H and 
Mrs C.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H and Mrs C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H and Mrs C about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell 
Mr H and Mrs C, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN11809102To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr H and the Estate  of Mrs C the extra they paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Lloyds should  also pay Mr H and Mrs C 8%* simple  interest on each payment (15%  on 
payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H and the estates of Mrs C can claim  back  the tax if 
they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H and the Estate of Mrs C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr H and the Estate of Mrs C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1180910