K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 2010.  The URCA is a packaged  bank account  
which Mr W pays a monthly fee for, in return for several benefits.
Mr W says he was told he needed  to take the URCA in order  to have an overdraft. He also 
says he wasnt told the account attracted a monthly fee or came with benefits.
background
Mr W opened a fee-free  account with Halifax in 1999. His account was upgraded to the 
URCA in September  2010, and it remains an URCA to date.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Halifax mis-sold the URCA to Mr W and didnt 
recommend that Halifax should pay him any compensation. Mr W didnt agree so he asked 
for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help me decide what to do about  Mr Ws complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr Ws complaint a lot of thought,  I dont  think the URCA was mis-sold to him. Ill 
explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr W was given  a fair choice when he took his 
packaged bank  account.
The main  thrust of Mr Ws complaint is that he was told by Halifax he had to upgrade to the 
URCA if he wanted an overdraft. Hes explained that he spoke to a Halifax employee  in a 
branch about  this, and as he didnt have time to do the upgrade there  and then, they told him 
he could complete the upgrade at home  using online banking.
Mr W has gone on to explain that he was told by the Halifax  employee to make  sure he 
ticked the box online, otherwise he wouldnt be able to get the overdraft  he wanted.
Ive thought very carefully about Mr Ws testimony because  its clear  that he remembers  the 
conversation he had with Halifax, to some  extent. Although having said that, Im not 
persuaded that Mr W upgraded his account  to get an overdraft.
Ref: DRN16739052Ive looked at the evidence Halifax has provided  and I can see that Mr W already had an 
agreed overdraft limit of £600 at the time he upgraded  to the URCA.  That limit had been in 
place for several  years, and having  looked at Mr Ws bank statements, he regularly made  
use of it. So Im satisfied that not only did Mr W already have an agreed  overdraft,  but he 
also knew he had one.
After our adjudicator explained this to Mr W he responded.  He said he was told he had to 
upgrade his account to increase his limit. 
Again, having  looked at the evidence Ive got, Im not persuaded by this. I can see that Mr W 
did indeed  increase his overdraft limit to £1,000 around two weeks  after he upgraded his 
account. But Im also mindful that both before and after increasing his limit, Mr W rarely used 
his overdraft up to its original limit of £600;  he tended to stay within the first few hundred  
pounds. So I dont think hed have upgraded to a fee-paid account  just to get an increased 
overdraft limit that he doesnt appear  to have  imminently needed.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied  that Mr W had a choice about upgrading his 
account, and didnt choose  to do so solely on the promise of extending his agreed  overdraft  
limit. He completed the upgrade online of his own free will, and he didnt increase his 
overdraft at that time, even though thats  the reason he says he upgraded in the first place.
As the sale was completed online,  I dont  think that Halifax recommended  the packaged 
account to Mr W. So it didnt have  to check if the account was suitable  for him.
Nevertheless, Halifax still had to give Mr W enough  clear information about the URCA for 
him to decide if he wanted it. And I think it did.
Mr W says he was never told that the URCA came with any benefits,  nor that it attracted a 
monthly fee. He does,  however, recall  being  told that it would pay him £5 per month.
I accept that when Mr W had the brief conversation  in a Halifax  branch, he may only have 
been told that the URCA would give him £5 per month, and not been told about the other  
benefits or the monthly fee. But the sale didnt take place at that point, so I cant conclude 
that something went wrong with the sale, based on that brief interaction.
I dont know exactly what information  Mr W was given when he upgraded using  Halifaxs  
internet banking facility,  but I do think its more likely that not that he was at least presented 
with the URCAs main benefits,  and the monthly fee. I also think  Mr W wouldve needed to 
confirm  at some point   that hed read the information hed been provided before he was 
able to proceed. By his own admission  he didnt read all of the bank jargon that he was 
shown, and I understand that, but of course  that doesnt mean that Halifax did something 
wrong.
Halifax has also provided evidence that it sent Mr W a welcome pack   or Getting Started 
Guide  on the same  day as he completed  the online upgrade. Ive looked at a sample of 
the guide that was in use around that time and it clearly gives the cost of the URCA as 
£12.50 per month on the first page (in two places). It goes on to give a summary table of all 
of the accounts  benefits on the second page.  Again, I understand that Mr W might  not have 
read this, but I dont  think Halifax  is at fault for that. 
Ref: DRN16739053I understand Mr W is frustrated that hes been  paying for separate insurance  policies that 
were provided by the URCA, such as car breakdown cover and mobile  phone  insurance, 
because he didnt know they were provided  by the URCA. I can certainly understand why 
this would be a cause for concern to Mr W. 
But for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont think that the reason Mr W didnt know about  the 
URCAs benefits is because of something that Halifax  did wrong. I think its more  likely that 
he didnt know about them  because he didnt fully read the information  he was given   such  
as the on-screen information  and the Getting  Started Guide. So I havent  concluded  that 
Halifax treated Mr W unfairly by withholding  or failing to provide enough information to him.
I do accept that its possible Halifax didnt tell Mr W everything it should  have about the 
URCA. But I havent seen enough  to make me think that Mr W wouldnt still have taken the 
account  even if Halifax had told him more about  it. 
I want to reassure Mr W that Ive looked  at all the information I have about his complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything hes said. But having done so I dont think  Halifax mis-sold 
the Ultimate Reward  Current  Account to him. So I dont think  it owes  him any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1673905