K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Standard Life Assurance  Limited (the business), should reimburse half 
of the money  that was obtained  by fraud  from her Individual  Savings  Account (ISA).
background
In November 2016, Mrs Gs Independent  Financial  Adviser (IFA) received an email  
purportedly from Mrs G  from her personal email account  requesting the prompt 
withdrawal of funds from her ISA, to be paid into her bank account.
Its unclear when the ISA was setup with the business, but Mrs G wouldve needed her IFA 
to do so.  It would  also appear that she provided  her IFA with authority to act on her behalf. 
On 30 November 2016, the IFA emailed the business stating that Mrs G was looking to 
withdraw £10,000 and that there  were  no account details registered to the platform. The IFA 
provided account details (that transpired to be fraudulent) and asked the business to confirm 
what it needed to do to get the (fraudulent) account  registered. Mrs Gs IFA also confirmed it 
had sight of a bank statement for the account that they were looking to register. 
On 3 December  2016 (at 9:56am) the business responded and explained that the IFA would 
need to call a specific number (0345 279 1001) to get the details added  to the platform. On 6 
December 2016  (at around 13:00pm) the IFA called the business to add the account  details 
to the platform.  The business  wouldve run through a script at the time, asking the IFA to 
confirm the following details:
1.It received documents confirming that the beneficiary account was in Mrs Gs 
name; and
2.Whether these documents were received in a one-to-one meeting.
In an email response the on the same day, around  the same  time, the IFA answered yes to 
both questions. Shortly after, the IFA sent the business another  email  asking it to accept the 
email as confirmation the account had been verified and updated on its platform. The IFA 
requested that a £10,000 withdrawal was made  immediately to the (fraudulent)  account.  
On19 December 2016, the IFA asked  the business  to process a further £5,200  withdrawal to 
the (fraudulent) account.
It later emerged that Mrs Gs email account  had been hacked, although its not clear  when 
she realised that her funds had been  sent to the fraudsters account. 
On 19 April 2017 Mrs G complained to the business. It seems that her IFA has paid half of 
her money back and Mrs G wants the business  to pay back the other  half. 
Mrs G said that her husband was the victim of a similar fraud but the business in that 
instance sent the request  to their joint account  rather than to the fraudulent  account.  Shes  
unhappy that she wasnt provided with any warnings to make her aware  that she could be at 
risk of this type of fraud,  and that the business shouldve asked its bank to verify that it was 
paying funds into an account in Mrs Gs name. 
The business didnt  uphold the complaint. In short, it said:
Ref: DRN12615052Mrs Gs husband already had a nominated  bank  account added  to his account with it, 
unlike Mrs G. As a result, any requested withdrawals  were sent to his nominated 
account.
Mrs G had provided the IFA with authority to manage investments  and add account  
details to the businesss platform on her behalf.  
As the IFA was acting  on Mrs Gs behalf,  warnings about  these types  of scams were 
sent to her IFA, rather than to her. 
It had gone  through  the process of asking Mrs Gs IFA to confirm  it had verified the 
account details  that were  being  added to the platform   and the vast majority of 
banks dont check the beneficiary  account  name. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary she said:
The business hadnt acted unreasonably and there was no more it could have done 
in the circumstances to have  prevented this fraud. 
It provided fair warning about  these sorts of scams. 
The business asked  for a specific number  to be called to add the nominated bank 
account to the platform for withdrawals. But on the call the IFA confirmed  that it had 
received documentation to confirm  the account was in Mrs Gs name  and that it had 
had received this document from her in a one to one, when it hadnt. 
There were  inconsistencies between Mrs Gs and her husbands account. 
Banks are only obligated  to process  payments in line with unique identifiers. In the 
UK the unique numbers are the bank  sort code and account number. This was all the 
bank was required to verify.   
Mrs G disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. In summary  she said:
She feels like all the blame is being placed  on her IFA, when it has already accepted  
its fault and paid half the money  back to Mrs G.  
The business should have warned her about  the dangers of this sort of fraud. She 
doesnt feel the businesss fraud  warning  adequately covered the fraud.  
She thinks its unacceptable that the money  can be transferred without confirming the 
payee name and its no defence  to say the Payment Service Regulations allowed 
this.  
She wanted answers to the following three questions:
Can you please  confirm that given the explosion of email hacking and cyber fraud:
o1. A key risk of using Standard Life's  Wrap electronic bank  transfer facility  is 
that the receiving  bank will be put under no obligation to check  the payee  
name matches the account specified,  leaving customers vulnerable to fraud 
and error.
o2. COBS 4.5.2R requires such risks to be explained  to the customer  when 
promoting their services.
o3. By keeping this secret Standard Life have let me their customer down, and 
that had this been made clear to me I could  have taken  steps to avoid  this 
loss such that it is fair they reimburse  my outstanding loss.
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
Ref: DRN12615053my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, notwithstanding what Mrs G says, I dont think 
the business has done anything wrong in the circumstances. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note 
I recognise Mrs Gs strength of feeling  about this matter.
Mrs G has provided  detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs G and the business,  and reach what  I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
In my opinion theres no doubt the money  was paid out by the business, in accordance with 
the instructions  and confirmation from Mrs Gs IFA, and was done in good  faith,  and in the 
belief that it was responding to Mrs Gs wishes. 
I think the business owed Mrs G, as well as all its customers  generally, a duty of care. But 
Im satisfied this duty was reasonably discharged in this case. 
I note Mrs G provided her IFA with authority to act on her behalf in respect  of managing  
investments and providing instructions  in relation  to the account, and that his authority 
included providing  beneficiary account details to the business. 
I note that between 6 January 2014  to 9 April 2015, and possibly later,  the business sent 
emails out to IFAs generally  to warn of various  different  fraudulent scams and to provide 
guidance on steps IFAs could take to protect  their clients.  In the circumstances I dont  think 
this was unreasonable that it wrote to Mrs Gs IFA (and not her) given that her IFA was 
instructed and authorised to act on her behalf.  On balance I also think,  her IFA knew or 
ought reasonably  to have known about  the fraudulent issues  that were around at the time.  
Im satisfied the business verified that it was speaking with Mrs Gs IFA when her IFA 
provided the fraudulent account details.  I note the business also requested a call back to a 
specific number and asking specific questions of the IFA.   
I note it specifically asked  Mrs Gs IFA to confirm it had seen documents to verify that the 
account belonged to Mrs G; and that it had received these documents through  a one-to-one 
meeting with her. The IFA confirmed that it had, but this doesnt appear  to have been the 
case, instead it seems  that it had received an email purportedly from Mrs G with fraudulent 
details and fake statement, but this email had been sent by fraudsters that had hacked into 
her email  account.
Ref: DRN12615054Whilst Im aware the IFA accepts it was partly at fault, on the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, I think if it hadnt confirmed that the nominated bank details were in Mrs Gs name 
and that it had received documents on a one to one basis  (in person), this wouldve flagged 
up issues that these  questions were specifically designed to flag up. 
In other  words, had the IFA relayed the true facts  that these documents werent  provided  to it 
directly by Mrs G, on balance I dont think the business wouldve gone ahead with the 
instructions. I think the intervening actions of the IFA  which Im fully aware isnt the subject 
of this complaint  but was entrusted to act on Mrs Gs behalf  has left me unable to safely  
attribute any blame  towards the business.  
I think the answers the IFA provided had the effect of circumventing the checks  and 
balances that the business had in place. So, in effect the actions of the IFA  albeit 
unwittingly  had deflected any suspicion that would otherwise have arisen. 
I appreciate the points  Mrs G makes  about  the requirements under Payment Service 
Regulations. But the rules are as they are, and they werent set by the business and they 
dont mean  that its done anything wrong  by following the standard set by the regulations.  
The objective as I see it is to ensure that the payment is made  to the instructed  bank  
account with the correct  sort code and account number. But even if I was to agree with Mrs 
G that these rules were  lax because the recipient account wasnt  in her name  which I dont 
 it doesnt mean the business  has done anything wrong by simply adhering  to them.  
I acknowledge the points about the fraud warning.  But I dont think  the business was obliged 
to specify every possible fraud that could have been  perpetrated against  its business, or that 
it had done anything wrong  by not being  able to do so because it had written to her IFA 
about various frauds. 
Given the intervening  actions  of the IFA and the fact that Mrs G wasnt  even aware  of what 
was happening,  on balance I dont think it would have made  a difference whether or not the 
business drew this type of fraud  specifically  to her attention earlier.   
Given the general nature of these frauds,  I dont think there was anything stopping  Mrs G 
from putting in a request to be telephoned if ever there was a withdrawal request, or not 
processing a request  unless she applied through her IFA in person.   
So, in conclusion and specifically in answer to Mrs Gs questions, I dont think  the business 
could dictate what procedures the recipient bank ought to put in place when receiving 
money. Receiving  banks  generally dont make  these checks, unless they had a specific 
reason to. 
Other than fraud  being  a constant and arguably increasing risk within the financial  industry, I 
dont think under COBS  the business was obliged to bring this specific type of fraud  to Mrs G 
and/or her IFAs attention. And by not doing so I dont think  it was in breach of COBS 4.5.2R. 
Im mindful that the terms of Mrs Gs agreement with the business  does appear to be slightly  
at odds with the information that wouldve appeared when going  through the application 
process, in that Section 1.12 suggests that a consumer must provide a nominated bank 
account during  set up. The additional information  that I understand wouldve appeared 
during the account set up  suggests  a nominated account didnt have to be added  at that 
Ref: DRN12615055time, and thats  probably why an account wasnt already set up when the IFA called. In any 
case this doesnt  detract  from the IFAs actions. 
On balance I dont  think the business has kept anything to do with its procedure or this fraud 
secret from Mrs G. Other than what Mrs G says, Ive seen no evidence to persuade  me that 
it had. 
I appreciate Mrs G will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what she wants to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable  to uphold this complaint and give Mrs G 
what she wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1261505