K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
2002. Mr and Mrs A say Santander UK Plc, trading as Abbey National (Santander),  mis-
sold them  the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a PPI policy in 2002  to help protect their mortgage repayments. They 
paid a monthly amount for the PPI.
Even though  this was a joint mortgage, only Mr A was covered by the policy and the cover  
taken was for unemployment only, not accident  and sickness. If Mr A had made  a 
successful claim, the policy would have paid out the monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs A initially  told us that they couldnt  remember  how the policy  was sold to them  
but they have  more  recently said they felt pressured  to take the policy.  As these statements 
are somewhat different, it appears  that Mr and Mrs As recollection of events from that time 
may have  been  affected which is understandable. But I think Santander made them  aware 
that the policy  was optional  and that they agreed  to take it out  even if they dont  recall  
this now.
Santanders records indicate Mr and Mrs A took out the PPI during a telephone 
conversation  so I think  its most likely the PPI was sold during a telephone call. But 
it hasnt got a recording of that conversation. This isnt surprising given that the call took 
place over 16 years ago. As there  isnt a recording,  I dont know  what was said, so in 
situations like this I need to consider what I think is most likely to have happened.
Based on what we know about  how Santander sold similar policies at the same time as 
Mr and Mrs As policy  was sold, it seems likely that the script the adviser  would have 
been following  during the call wouldve prompted  them to explain the policy  was optional. 
And it would have asked Mr and Mrs A if they wanted the cover  before it was arranged. This 
policy was taken out almost a year after Mr and Mrs As mortgage had started  so I think  
they would  have known this policy was not a condition of their lending.
Santander has also sent us a copy of the welcome letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs A 
after the policy was arranged. It says that a direct debit had been  set up to pay for the 
policy, which appears  to  have  been  separate   from  any  payment   for  the  mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs A would  have  had to sign a separate direct debit mandate  in order  for this 
Ref: DRN10757572payment to have been  set up. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs A 
queried these payments  leaving their account at the time.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs A so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them   and based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time I think it was. I say 
this because Mr A appears to have been  eligible for the policy and doesnt seem  to have 
been affected by any of the main  things the policy  didnt cover,  such  as unusual  working  
arrangements.
Mr A has told us he would  have received six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay from his employer if he was unable to work  due to accident  or sickness. But as Ive 
mentioned previously, Mr A didnt take out the accident and sickness cover   only taking out 
unemployment protection. And while Ive noted Mr and Mrs A have said they had savings, by 
having this policy it would  enable them to protect these funds for another  purpose  or use 
them to cover other essential living expenses. As a mortgage is a large financial 
commitment, secured  against their home,  I think this policy  could have provided them with 
the reassurance  that they had cover should something have gone wrong. 
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out for Mr A only - so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been  useful for them  if something went  wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking  out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1075757