compl aint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down his travel insurance 
claim.
background
Mr and Mrs T have a travel policy as a benefit of their bank accoun t. While abroad Mr T fell 
ill and required hospi tal treatment. They claimed for the costs but AXA refused to pay the 
claim.
Mr and Mrs T didnt think that was fair and brought their complaint to us. Our adjudicator 
noted that if Mr T had declared a medical condi tion AXA would have offered cover but for an 
additional premium. So he said AXA shoul d pay the claim on a proportionate basis.
AXA didnt agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive consi dered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonab le in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, Im going to uphold it.
AXA said that Mr and Mrs Ts policy excluded cover  for any medical condi tion Mr T had 
received treatment for in the six months prior renewing the policy, unless AXA had
previously agreed to cover it. After Mr T fell ill abroad AXA checked Mr Ts medical history. It 
noted that hed under gone some investigations into a medical condi tion in the six months
prior to his trip. It said that the same condi tion had caused Mr Ts admission to hospital while 
abroad.
AXA said that as Mr T hadnt told it about the investigations into his health and it hadn t 
agreed to cover that condition he wasnt covered for it by his policy. So it didnt pay his claim.
Mr T says that he went to see his GP after hed fainted roughly seven months before he 
book ed his trip. Hed had some tests and saw speci alists. But his speci alists couldnt be 
certain of a diagnosis that had caused Mr T to faint. One spec ialist said that Mr Ts 
symptoms do not pose  a danger  and dischar ged him. The other speci alist, specul ated that
Mr T might be suscep tible to a certain condi tion, but said that Mr Ts symptoms happened so 
rarely that they didnt justify regular medication. Neither speci alist recommended  any 
medication, additional treatment, investigations or follow up of any kind.
Mr T said that as hed had tests that didnt identify any issue,  and he wasnt taking 
medication nor attending hospi tal as an outpatient, he didnt think he neede d to tell AXA
K821x#15
Ref: DRN1707489about the tests hed had. So when he booked his trip, he thought that, because his tests 
were negative it was OK to go.
The first question I need to address was whether Mr T needed  to tell AXA about the tests 
hed under gone. In its key facts Mr Ts policy says that AXA wont cover Mr T for claims 
arising from a medical condition:
for which you are taking prescribed medication or for which you have received or are 
awaiting treatment (within six months  [of] book ing your trip) unless we have 
agreed in writing to cove r you (an additional premium may be payabl e) or the 
condi tion is a No Screen Condition
I understand that becaus e Mr T hadn t had a diagnosi s and wasnt receiving any treatment or 
medication, he didnt think he needed  to tell AXA about the treatment hed had. But Mr Ts 
policy requires Mr T to tell it about  anything for which hed received treatment. And as hed 
had investigations and seen speci alists within the previous six months I think he shoul d have 
told AXA about that.
AXA says that, because Mr T didnt tell AXA about his medical condi tion, the policy doesn t 
cover it. But I dont think thats fair. AXA would have covered Mr T for his medical condi tion if 
hed told AXA about it, although it would have charged him an additional premium. Mr Ts 
mistake in not telling AXA about his treatment before the policy renew ed is whats known in 
the insurance industry as a careless misrepresent ation. Theres speci fic law, the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Represen tations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers 
may do in this situation. It says that insurers may settle any future claims on a proportionate 
basis. This means it could work out what percentage of the revised premium Mr and Mrs T 
actually paid and pay that proportion of their claim when settling it. So I think thats what AXA 
shoul d do in this case.
If Mr and Mrs T have already paid their hospi tal bills AXA shou ld add interest to the 
settlement from the date Mr and Mrs T paid Mr Ts bills to the date AXA pays the claims, 
subject to Mr and Mrs T providing evidence of payment.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphol d this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to: 
Settle Mr and Mrs Ts claim on a proportionate basis as described abov e. If Mr and Mrs T 
have already paid their hospital bills AXA shoul d add interest at a rate of 8% per year simple 
to the settlement from the date Mr and Mrs T paid Mr Ts bills to the date AXA pays the 
claims, subject to Mr and Mrs T providing evidence  of payment1.
Under the rules of the Financ ial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman
1 If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs T a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
2
Ref: DRN1707489