K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) and a life cover policy taken with 
a mortgage in 2004. Mrs J and Mr B say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  the policies.
background
I sent Mrs J and Mr B and HSBC a provisional decision explaining why I thought the PPI and 
life policies werent mis-sold and why HSBC had to pay back to Mrs J and Mr B some of the 
cost of the PPI. I said Id consider anything  else Mrs J and Mr B and HSBC wanted  to give 
me by 28 December 2018. Mrs J and Mr B replied and Mrs J provided further points. HSBC 
replied saying it didnt  have anything else to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs J and Mr Bs case. 
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mrs J and Mr B took out the policies when they took out a mortgage loan. When requesting  
the loan they signed  a Customer Instruction Form. I think  this instruction form presented 
the policies as optional rather than as something  Mrs J and Mr B had to take.
I say this because  it has a separate section for Life and Critical Illness  Cover with equally 
noticeable boxes  to say I/we wish to take the following cover or to turn down the cover.  It 
has boxes to select different types of cover  critical illness cover,  life cover or both. And to 
select cover  for one person, two people separately or two people jointly.
On Mrs J and Mr Bs form,  the boxes were  ticked for life cover only and as two separate  
policies  with a different cost quoted for Mrs Js and Mr Bs policy  and written in on the form.
So Mrs J and Mr Bs form requested a life cover policy for Mr B, a separate one for Mrs J 
and didnt ask for critical illness cover  to be included. But, as noted  above, there was also 
the option to say they didnt want the cover.
The form also had a separate section  for the PPI  called Mortgage Repayment  Protection. 
This had equally  noticeable boxes to say they either wanted or didnt want  the cover.  On 
Mrs J and Mr Bs form, the box saying they wanted  the cover  was ticked. Both their names  
were written  in  indicating they were both to be covered  as was the benefit amount and 
the cost of the cover. So the form requested PPI for Mrs J and Mr B  and also had an 
option to say no to PPI.
The policies that started were  a PPI policy covering both Mrs J and Mr B. And a life cover  
policy covering Mr B. Mr B was offered the life cover  at a higher premium than was shown  
on the initial form. To take it out he signed a slip showing  the new policy cost. The life cover 
policy requested  for Mrs J didnt go ahead.
Mrs J and Mr B have  said they didnt ask for any insurance but were  told verbally that they 
would not get the mortgage  without taking  the insurance. But theyve acknowledged that this 
Ref: DRN14644442is something they cant substantiate. Taking everything into account, like the instruction form 
signed to request the policies and the fact the policy for life cover on Mrs J wasnt taken out, 
I think its likely HSBC presented both policies as policies Mrs J and Mr B had a choice about 
taking out. So, on balance, what I have makes me think its likely  Mrs J and Mr B asked for 
the PPI policy  and the life cover policy because they wanted the cover rather than because  
they thought they were policies they had to take out.
The paperwork makes me think the policies were  sold on the basis that Mrs J and Mr B had 
to make their own decision on whether the policies were right for them.  So HSBC didnt have 
to make sure the policies  were right for Mrs J and Mr B, but it did have to make  sure they got 
the information they needed to decide for themselves  if the policies were right for them.
The cost of the life cover on Mr B was set out on the slip he signed  before taking it. So I think 
Mrs J and Mr B knew what  it would  cost, and I think they knew  how much it would pay and 
that it would  be paid if Mr B died.  There isnt anything about the information Mrs J and Mr B 
got about Mr Bs life cover that makes me think  better information wouldve changed their 
decision to take that policy.
For the PPI policy, this would pay out a monthly benefit if Mrs J or Mr B suffered involuntary 
unemployment or became too sick to work.  I think its likely they were told how much the 
policy would cost and what it would pay out  because this was on the instruction form they 
signed. Its likely they were aware that the cover included unemployment cover   because 
this was pointed  out on the form. And from what Mrs J and Mr B have told us about  their 
jobs, theres nothing  about the nature or length of their employment that would have stopped  
them claiming on the cover if they needed  to.
Also, from what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time of the sale, Mrs J and Mr B 
werent likely  to be affected by the PPI policys health exclusions.  So if either of them 
became too ill to work, it seems the cover wouldve been useful for them. And it helped  
protect a mortgage  a large,  long term liability secured on Mrs J and Mr Bs home. 
Taking all this into account, although I cant say exactly how HSBC explained the PPI cover 
to Mrs J and Mr B, I dont think more or better  information about the PPI wouldve put them  
off taking out the PPI cover.
Ive thought again about all Mrs J and Mr Bs points, including what  theyve said about how 
their pensions couldve reduced the mortgage if they died, and Mrs Js private health care. 
But pension and health care cover dont  provide  the same cover as the PPI. Any sum paid 
by Mr Bs life cover  policy would add to anything else that was paid on Mr Bs death by any 
other plans  Mrs J and Mr B had. But this doesnt make me think there was more information  
HSBC shouldve given  about the life policy that wouldve  put Mrs J and Mr B off taking it. 
And neither does  the fact that Mrs J and Mr B had significant equity in the property or the 
fact that its possible  Mrs J could pay the mortgage on her own if Mr B died. So, for these 
reasons and those  already given above, these points dont change my decision.
What Ive said above means that HSBC doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs J and Mr B. 
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J and Mr B because:
Ref: DRN14644443When the policy was sold, HSBC expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mrs J and Mr B about 
that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mrs J and Mr B, that was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of commission  and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Im grateful  to Mrs J and Mr B for their patience throughout  this matter and for their prompt  
responses to our queries.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mrs J and Mr B any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should  also pay back  to Mrs J and Mr B any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
HSBC should  pay back to Mrs J and Mr B the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should 
also pay Mrs J and Mr B 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs J and Mr B can claim back the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy and the life cover policy werent mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI and the life cover  to Mrs J and Mr B.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs J and Mr B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1464444