K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
May 2004. Miss K says Barclays  Bank UK Plc (Barclays)  mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
Miss K bought  the policy  sometime after she took out a credit  card in 2001.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ks case.
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss K says the PPI was taken out during a meeting. Barclays on the other  hand  says the 
PPI was sold to Miss K during a telephone call a few years after Miss K applied for her credit 
card. In support of what its said, Barclays has provided our service with a copy  of Miss Ks 
credit agreement. This shows  Miss K didnt agree to the PPI at the time she applied for her 
credit card. Having thought about  what Barclays has told us and using what  we know 
generally about Barclays sales practices  at the time the PPI was sold to Miss K, I think  its 
more likely than not the PPI was sold to Miss K during a telephone call.
Miss K says she wasnt  given an option of having  the credit  card without the PPI. She says 
that had she been given  a choice, she would have declined it. So, Ive thought about what 
shes said alongside the additional  information  Ive seen from Barclays.
Barclays says Miss K would have  been given a choice about the PPI. Unfortunately,  
Barclays hasnt been able to provide a recording of the call in which the sale took place   
which isnt surprising given the sale took place over 14 years  ago. So I dont know what was 
said in the discussion  between Miss K and the Barclays representative. But Barclays  has 
referred me to a PPI sales script which it says its telephone staff would have used in 2004 
when Miss K was sold the PPI. Looking at the sales script, its clear Miss K wouldve been  
asked whether she wanted to take out the PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  including the fact that Miss K agreed to the PPI some years 
after she applied for her credit card, I think its more  likely than not Miss K would  have 
understood the PPI was optional. And I dont think she would have agreed to the cover if she 
didnt want to take it out.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Miss K, and the policy  seems to have been right 
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. She was eligible for cover  
and I cant see that she would have been affected  by any of things the policy didnt cover  
such as pre-existing medical  conditions. 
Ref: DRN11759882Miss K has told us she didnt need PPI as she would  have received generous sick pay from 
her employer if she was too unwell to work.  Ive thought about  what  Miss K has told us about  
her sick pay. She says she would have been  entitled to at six months  full pay followed by six 
months half pay from her employer. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to any sick 
pay Miss K would have  received from her employer and would have paid out for up to 12 
months. The PPI also would have paid a benefit  if Miss K was ever made redundant. So I 
dont think the sick pay Miss K had would have meant that Barclays was wrong  to 
recommend the PPI to her.
I also havent seen  anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Miss K 
when she took out the policy  or that she had a particular need to keep costs down. So, 
overall, I think Barclays recommendation  was suitable. And I think  Miss K could  have found  
the cover  useful if she ever fell on hard times.
In addition to making  sure the policy was suitable for Miss K, Barclays also had to give her 
clear enough  information  about  the PPI. I think its possible that Barclays  didnt  give her all 
the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been, for the reasons  Ive already explained,  I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Miss K buying  it.
Ive taken into account what Miss K has said about her death in service benefit and pension,  
but these points dont change my decision. I say this because the main benefits of PPI were 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover, which are different to the cover provided  by a 
death in service benefit. I also dont think Miss Ks pension  makes a difference  to the 
outcome of this complaint. Miss K wasnt close to retirement age or in receipt of any pension 
payments at the time the PPI was sold to her.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont currently think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means 
Barclays doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss K.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss K because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Miss K about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss K, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Miss K has commented on the non-disclosure of commission by businesses.  Miss K says 
there have  been  other court cases in relation to non-disclosure of commission where 
consumers have received everything back. So she thinks Barclays should refund all of the 
money paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Miss Ks complaint is the law. But I also need  to take into account 
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN11759883In this case Barclays has made Miss K an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Miss K wants 
Barclays to do something  different.
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Miss K and her complaint to see if theres  
anything about  her circumstances that would mean Barclays  should do something different  
if the remedies  set out in the FCAs rules  dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for     
Miss K. But there isnt anything about  Miss Ks complaint  or circumstances  that suggest the 
redress offered by Barclays isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Barclayss  offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank  UK Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss K.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss K any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1175988