K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement  with 
Blue Motor  Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
A modified used  car was supplied to Miss R under a hire purchase agreement  with Blue 
Motor Finance that she signed in November  2018.  She says that about  five weeks  later she 
returned to the car and found  that it had water  in it. She contacted  the dealer and it arranged 
for the car to be repaired by a local garage.  Miss R was concerned about the damage to the 
car so complained  to Blue Motor Finance. It said that there was no evidence  to show  that the 
car was still faulty.  Miss R wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that she had 
enough evidence  to persuade her that the repairs had likely  failed  and that the subsequent 
faults reported by Miss R were a direct  result from the water  ingress.  She recommended that 
Blue Motor  Finance should: cancel the finance  agreement and collect  the car; refund to 
Miss R the monthly payments she made, less two payments  to reflect  the use she had of the 
car; refund her the insurance and road tax costs for the car since she stopped using it in 
April 2019; pay her £200 to recognise the distress  and inconvenience caused;  and remove 
any adverse information  from her credit file.
Blue Motor  Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that it doesnt feel that there  are any grounds to support rejection of the 
car. It says that the car has been repaired, inspected  by an independent  expert, no evidence  
has been provided of any many  electrical issues and it should  be allowed an opportunity  to 
repair the issue with the keys. It says that the dealer is willing to collect  the car and, if there 
are any electrical faults following replacement of the battery and re coding of the key, the car 
will be taken  back. 
Miss R didnt accept that offer and says that the car is too much of a financial risk for her 
with the current  issues  so she wants to reject  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blue Motor  Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss R. Whether or not it was of satisfactory  
quality at that time will depend on a number of factors,  including the age and mileage of the 
car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to her was about eight and a 
half years  old, had been driven for 57,612 miles and had a price of £19,989. Satisfactory  
quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car must  be 
durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend 
on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Miss R in November 2018  and about five weeks  later there  was 
significant water damage to the inside of the car. I consider that the evidence shows  that the 
damage was caused by water leaking into the car because of a fault with the cars 
windscreen that was present when the car was supplied to Miss R.
Ref: DRN19667402The dealer  arranged for the car to be repaired by a local garage. The garage  said:
Currently the vehicle runs and performs normally, this may be a temporary 
correction only where there is an underlying fault that may occur again, so well keep 
testing this in the short  term. More concerning at this point is the issue over water 
ingress, this is significant and Ive attached a couple of photos to show the amount of 
water collected inside the N/S front & rear footwells.
Miss R says that the cars  keys dont work,  there are electrical issues and shes  provided 
photos showing mould growing in the car. She says that she stopped using the car in April 
2019 and has stopped  making payments to Blue Motor  Finance. 
Blue Motor  Finance arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert  in July 
2019. The experts report said that it was clear that the car hadnt moved in a considerable 
amount of time and concluded:
The electrics on this could not be tested due to a flat battery,  the windscreen 
appears at the time of test to have been  fitted  to a satisfactory standard  and no water 
ingress is present.
The water ingress that was said to be occur due to windscreen issue has in our 
opinion been  rectified successfully, the manufacturer  is aware of the situation  and 
has issued an in-service recall i.e. the vehicle is in the full dealer for repairs  or 
warranty work to be undertaken. They will rectify the water leak free of cost i.e. under 
warranty.
The report  referred  to the modifications that had been made to the car. Miss R says that she 
was aware that the car had been modified before it was supplied  to her and Ive seen no 
evidence to show that the car has been  modified  since then. Miss R says that, when the 
garage reset the engine control  unit during the repair, the modifications were  affected and 
that the injectors are now over-fuelling the engine.
The car has been repaired following the water  damage but I consider it to be more likely than 
not that there continue to be issues with the car that were caused  by the water damage.  Im 
not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for the car to be repaired again. Given the 
issues that Miss R has described and the photos  of the mould in the car that shes provided, 
I understand why shes lost faith in the car and wants  to reject it. 
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances  for Miss R to reject the 
car. So I find that Blue Motor Finance should  end the hire purchase  agreement and arrange 
for the car to be collected from Miss R. The agreement shows  that Miss R a paid a deposit of 
£500 for the car but shes confirmed that she didnt  pay a deposit. 
Miss R was able to use the car before the water damage and had some use of it after the 
repairs until she stopped  using it in April 2019. She hasnt made all of the payments that 
were due under the agreement but I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor 
Finance to refund to her all but two of the monthly  payments  that shes made  for the car. It 
can keep the two monthly payments as payment for the use that she had from the car. 
Miss R had paid to insure and tax the car even  though her use of it has been limited.  I agree 
with the investigator  that it would be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor  Finance to reimburse 
Ref: DRN19667403her for those costs  on a pro rata basis from when she stopped using the car in April 2019   
but shell need to provide it with evidence of those costs.
These events have clearly  caused distress and inconvenience to Miss R. I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to pay her £200 to compensate  her for that 
distress and inconvenience. I consider that it should  also remove  any adverse information  
about the agreement that its recorded  on Miss Rs credit file.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint and I order Blue Motor 
Finance Limited  to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Miss R 
 both at no cost to her.
2.Refund to Miss R all but the first two of the monthly payments that shes  made under 
the agreement.
3.Reimburse Miss R for the insurance and road tax costs that she paid for the car on a 
pro rata basis from when  she stopped using the car in April 2019 - but shell  need to 
provide it with evidence of those costs.
4.Ensure that no adverse  information  about  the agreement is recorded on Miss Rs 
credit file.
5.Pay £200 to Miss R to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience  that shes  
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1966740