K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss S took out a mortgage in 2004.  At the same time she took out a PPI policy.  She paid a 
monthly amount  for it.
This policy would  have covered her if she was off work because  of an accident, sickness or if 
she lost her job. In 2004 it cost £12.80  and would have paid a monthly benefit of £250 for up 
to 12 months per successful claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Miss S disagreed  with this view 
and asked that the complaint be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.   
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. I will explain why below.
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Miss S was given a fair choice about  taking  out 
the PPI. Miss S says she didnt understand it was optional  and she says she didnt know it 
had been added to her account.
NatWest has provided a copy of the mortgage  repayment protector  application form Miss S 
completed at the time of the sale. I can see she has ticked the box to select  cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment and selected  the benefit  she wanted. She also filled in 
a direct debit mandate for the PPI. Theres nothing  on the forms or on the mortgage 
application which shows she had to take out PPI to get the mortgage.  The mortgage offer 
says that Miss S instructed NatWest to arrange the PPI with full accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. I think that likely reflected  her instruction. Overall,  looking at the 
paperwork, I think its likely she chose the insurance  knowing she could decline it if she 
didnt want it.
I dont think NatWest recommended  this policy  to Miss S. That meant it didnt need to make  
sure it was suitable for her. But it still needed to give her enough clear information  so that 
she could decide  for herself whether or not to take it out.
Its possible not all the information was as clear as it could have been. But even if NatWest 
had given Miss S clearer or better information  I dont think she would have changed her 
mind about  buying  it.
I say this because  I can see she was eligible for the PPI. And it doesnt appear  she would 
have been affected by any of the main  limitations  or exclusions in the terms of the policy  that 
Ref: DRN15693072might have made it more  difficult to make a claim - such as an unusual employment  situation 
or a pre-existing medical condition.
Miss S says she would have received  some  sick pay from her employers  up to six months 
full pay and six months half pay. And she has told us about  some savings she could have 
used. But this policy would have paid out for up to 12 months if Miss S couldnt work or lost 
her job - so I still think it would have been  useful. It would have paid out on top of any sick 
pay she got and potentially for longer  than her full sick pay would have lasted. And it would 
have meant  she could have used her savings for any other  important expenses. And as her 
mortgage was secured  over her home and there was a significant  risk if she wasnt  able to 
meet the mortgage repayments, I think she would  have  found it useful if something went 
wrong.
Theres nothing to make me think it was unaffordable for her at the time.
Ive thought about everything Miss S has said. But these points dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Miss S paid on her policy   and whether NatWest 
treated her unfairly. 
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Miss Ss policy  was less than half of what she 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based 
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Miss Ss commission  was less than half the cost 
of the policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell her about the commission  so I 
dont think NatWest treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Miss S back any 
of the commission  she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1569307