K821x#15Complaint
Mrs G complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  was 
irresponsible in its lending  to her.
Background
Based on the information provided, Mrs G was provided with six instalment loans by Sunny 
between January 2015 and February  2016.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 25/01/2015 22/05/2015 6 £300
2 05/02/2015 24/07/2015 6 £500
3 27/04/2015 25/09/2015 6 £350
4 27/06/2015 25/10/2015 6 £200
5 12/02/2016 03/08/2016 6 £500
6 19/02/2016 03/08/2016 6 £300
Mrs G says that at the time of the loans she had a poor credit  rating  and that this had been  
the case for a number  of years. Given this she didn't understand how Sunny could say her 
credit checks were  acceptable. She says Sunny allowed her to take out new loans when 
previous loans hadn't been  repaid.
Sunny says that it carried out creditworthiness and affordability checks before  the loans were  
provided. It says that based on the results  from the checks it was considered  responsible to 
provide the loans.
Our adjudicator didn't think  she had seen  enough  to say it was unfair  that the first two loans 
were provided. However she said that loans three to six shouldn't have  been  lent. Our 
adjudicator noted  that when loan three was provided, the first two loans  were  still 
outstanding and said the combined repayments on these three loans took a substantial 
amount of Mrs G's income. Because of this she thought there was a significant risk that 
Mrs G wouldn't have been able to sustainably repay the loans from this point  on.
By loan six, our adjudicator thought Mrs G's over pattern of borrowing suggested she had 
become persistently dependent  on short  term loans.
Sunny didn't  accept our adjudicator's view. It said that there  was a break in the lending 
between loans four and five and that the repayments on the loans used an average  of 8.3% 
of Mrs G's monthly income. It said there  was no outstanding balance on Mrs G's account. It 
reiterated that it had carried  out proportionate  checks before the loans were provided and 
noted that Mrs G hadn't raised any issues regarding  financial difficulties while the loans were  
in place. Sunny didn't accept that Mrs G's borrowing suggested she was dependent on short  
term loans.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
although there was a break in lending  between loans four and five this was for less 
than four months so I didnt think it would have  been reasonable for Sunny to 
Ref: DRN15730192conclude this was any indication that Mrs G's finances had moved  on from whatever 
situation had required her previous loans;
there was not enough evidence to say that loans one and two shouldnt have been 
provided;
loan three was taken  out while the first two loans were still outstanding so Mrs G was 
required to make payments on all three loans at the same time.  This meant Mrs G 
was using a substantial amount of her monthly  income to make the repayments. 
Given this I thought Sunny should have  been concerned that this loan wasn't  
sustainably affordable;
the fourth loan was for £200 and was provided  around a month after the first loan had 
been repaid and while loans  two and three were still outstanding. The total combined  
payments due under the loans  was around  £335. Again  this was a substantial 
amount of Mrs G's income and so I do not find it reasonable that this was considered 
affordable;
the fifth loan was for £500 and was provided  after the previous four loans had been 
repaid. Before this loan was provided I thought it would have been reasonable for 
Sunny to have  carried out a thorough review of Mrs G's financial situation to ensure 
the loan was affordable. Based on the information provided I didnt find I could say 
that Sunny shouldn't have  provided  this loan;
by loan six, Mrs G's pattern of borrowing suggested she had become dependent on 
short term loans. 
Overall I found that loans  three, four and six shouldn't have been lent.
Sunny responded to my provisional decision.  It said that although loan three  was provided 
when other  loans were  outstanding Mrs G had never been late in making a repayment  and 
her monthly disposable income was sufficient to meet her repayments and other reasonable 
credit commitments.  It explained further  how it assessed the affordability of the repayments 
and said there was no evidence that Mrs G was having financial difficulties before the loan 
was provided.
In regard to loan four it raised similar  points as had been raised in regard to loan three. It 
noted that loan five hadnt been upheld.
In regard to loan six it agreed  that the pattern  of borrowing should be taken into account but 
said other factors also needed to be considered. It said that it was required to check  whether 
Mrs G could meet her repayments.  It said that the amounts being borrowed were reducing  
and again mentioned the gap in borrowing between  loans four and five.  
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Ref: DRN15730193Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mrs G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. And there may even 
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself clearly demonstrates that 
the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny has said that based on its assessment of Mrs Gs disposable  income loans three and 
four were  affordable. I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was 
required to establish  whether Mrs G could sustainably repay  her loans - not just whether the 
loan payments were  affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  As I set out in my 
provisional decision, the combined repayment amounts on these loans (repayments 
combined with the repayments on other  outstanding loans) were a substantial  amount of 
Mrs Gs declared  income. When a consumer is using substantial  amounts of their income to 
repay short term loans  it raises concerns about the sustainability of the repayments. The 
loans were for six months  and so the repayments  would need  to be sustained  over this 
period. Given the size of the combined repayments  compared to Mrs Gs income  I do not 
think that Sunny should have considered loans three and four as a sustainably affordable.  
I note the comments made  about other  factors being  considered  in the assessment of loan 
six. I have taken into account all the information  provided. I think that the pattern of 
borrowing at this point  suggests that Mrs G had become persistently reliant on short  term 
borrowing. The number of loans she had taken out and the timing  of these should have 
raised concerns  and while I note the comment about  the break between loans four and five I 
dont find this was long enough to say that Mrs Gs circumstances had changed.  Therefore  I 
think that by loan six Sunny should have  realised that Mrs G was reliant on short  term 
borrowing and that the loan wasnt sustainable.
As I set out in my provisional  decision I uphold this complaint regard  to loans three,  four and 
six.  
Ref: DRN15730194My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  three, four and six. Elevate 
Credit International  Limited (trading as Sunny)  should:
A.add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mrs G made towards  interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans, not including anything  that has already been 
refunded.
B.calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mrs G which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mrs G originally  made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.remove any adverse information  Sunny has recorded on Mrs G's credit file in relation 
to loans three and four. The overall  pattern of Mrs G's borrowing by loan six means 
any information recorded about  this is adverse,  so all information  about this loan 
should be removed  from Mrs G's credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires tax to be deducted from this interest. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax has been 
deducted, if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1573019