K820x#14complaint
Mr L says National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) mis-sold him a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr L bought the policy  in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  by completing an application form. 
At the time,  Mr L says he was employed  as a Manager. Mr L has told us he was entitled to at 
least 3 months worth  of sick pay. Mr L has said he suffered from chicken pox as a child but 
was in good health at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ls credit card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost no more  than 79p per £100 of the monthly  
outstanding balance. The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful 
claim and it did attract  interest.  
NWB has sent us screenshots to show  that the credit  card account closed in 2003.
Mr Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ls representative says:
NWB  failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ls representatives  
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NWB should have 
told Mr L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NWB should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr L and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr L received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN13710952Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NWB at the time. So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI code and these  
Ref: DRN13710953other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ls case.  
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
NWB was required  to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NWB gave  advice, whether it advised Mr L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether NWB gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr L suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr L and NWB, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr L know he had a choice?
NWB had to make  it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
The PPI was applied  for in 1999  when Mr L completed a branch application for a credit  card.  
NWB have given us a copy of the application  form Mr L completed. 
Ref: DRN13710954Theres a separate  section on the application  form that deals with PPI. It gives the option to 
select PPI by signing with in a box titled credit card repayment protector. I can see on Mr 
Ls application  form Mr L has signed to take PPI then gone  on to sign the overall  agreement. 
If Mr L didnt want PPI he couldve  left the section clear.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr L knew  the policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did NWB provide  advice?
Both NWB and Mr L agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  NWB didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr L. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr L to make  an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
NWB has provided us with Mr Ls application form  showing  that PPI had been  selected. It 
has also referred to a copy of the paperwork it says he wouldve received, including the 
policy terms and conditions and summary of cover    which  I accept on a balance  of 
probabilities  applied to policies like Mr Ls. 
Looking at the documentation provided to Mr L at the time, I dont think  NWB gave Mr L the 
information He fairly  and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
But the information provided would  have given Mr L a broad sense of what the policy 
covered. But it was NWBs responsibility to draw to Mr Ls attention the important information  
 i.e. the key information about  the nature of the cover and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded NWB did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mr L, including  the need  to maintain premiums  during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that NWB adequately drew to 
his attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So I dont  think NWB gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN13710955PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ls representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NWB ought to have done  either.  
what effect did NWBs shortcomings have on Mr L? To what extent did Mr L suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NWB  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr L. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr L suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr L would have still 
taken out the policy,  had NWB done things  properly. 
Mr L says he wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr L had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr L chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr L thought  he was getting  is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr L has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr L ought reasonably  to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   this 
was set out on the application form. But, I accept that NWB  didnt make  clear the on-going  
cost information.  So while Mr L didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the event of 
a successful claim was not dissimilar to what he would reasonably  have thought from the 
information he based his decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr L thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN13710956The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury for 
which Mr L received medical  treatment,  counselling or advice during  the 12months 
before the commencement date.; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr L 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr L pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy  
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr L from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  he wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr L didnt have any pre-existing medical 
conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think  he had some  good reasons to 
take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions could have been  more onerous than 
Mr L might  reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr L from taking out the policy, Mr L, in his circumstances, still had some 
good reasons  to take it out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr L would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding any employment benefits he might have been entitled to. And 
in those circumstances I consider  it more likely  than not that he would have  taken out the 
policy in any event.  
Mr Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr L would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN13710957I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr L 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr L in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude NWB should pay Mr L compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr L thinks  NWB  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
NWBs statements misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why NWB failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NWB gave Mr L, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find NWB negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr L and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that NWB had been in breach  of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr L in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Ref: DRN13710958my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2021.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1371095