K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the rejection of his claim by Amtrust Europe Limited. 
background
Mr H made  a claim concerning an oil tank on his property. Amtrust  rejected the claim,  as 
they said there was insufficient proof  of an insured  event. Mr H contends  this was down to 
delays on the part of Amtrust, and he complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter, but didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H didnt 
agree so the case had been passed to me for final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint either, for the same reasons as the adjudicator. 
In insurance it is the person making the claim who must first prove it is valid. Then  if the 
insurer disagrees it is for them to disprove it, or make a case  that some exclusion or other  
reason applies.  Here  I dont think Mr H has crossed that first barrier.  There  are many 
reasons an oil tank could fail, but not all are covered  by Mr Hs policy, so he must first show 
that the cause  of the failure was, or is likely  to have been, an insured event. Here I havent 
seen that proof. 
Mr H has said it is impossible to get such proof,  but I dont  think  that is the fault of Amtrust.  
The tank seems to have  been disposed of soon after the claim was made, and I cant see 
that Amtrust required this. Equally the photographs available dont prove an insured event 
took place, and there seems to be no report from a contractor that proves an insured event 
either. Faced with this lack of proof of an insured event I cant  ask Amtrust to meet  the claim. 
And I dont  think the delays here were such that this lack of proof can be ignored. 
my final decision
I make  no award against Amtrust Europe Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1798009