K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt paid a claim for a 
cancelled holiday under their travel  insurance  policy. 
All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to handle  claims. 
Background
Mr and Mrs B booked  a holiday and, later the same month, bought a travel insurance  policy
provided by IPA.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs B had to cancel their trip and they made a claim with IPA. They
said theyd had to cancel because Mrs B needed  an unexpected and unavoidable medical
procedure. Mr and Mrs B sent IPA a hospital  letter confirming Mrs B had been  advised not
to fly.
IPA considered the claim but said it wasnt covered under Mr and Mrs Bs policy.  IPA said
this was because  Mrs B had made a conscious choice to enrol in IVF treatment  around  the
time she was due to travel.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B complained to IPA. IPA reviewed the claim again but didnt change
its position, so Mr and Mrs B brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think IPA had acted reasonably by turning down Mr and Mrs Bs claim
based on the information it had. So, he recommended that IPA should  re-assess  the claim
subject to requesting  any reasonable  additional medical evidence which it needed from 
Mr and Mrs B.
IPA didnt agree with our investigators  conclusions,  so the case was passed to me.
Mrs B subsequently provided us with an email from the hospital dated 3 July 2020, as well 
as a letter from the hospital  dated  10 January 2020.
I made  my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in July 2020. In it, I said:
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Bs policy provide cover for cancellation of a trip 
due to a number of specific,  listed insured events. One of these is illness, disease  or
complications of pregnancy.
The policy is silent on IVF treatment. But IPA appears to have gone  on to consider  this claim
regardless, which I think is a fair and reasonable approach for IPA to take in the 
circumstances.
However, the policy contains the following exclusion;
What is not covered
Any circumstances known  to you before  you purchased  this insurance or at the time
of booking any trip that could reasonably be expected to result  in a claim.
Theres no doubt that Mrs B was advised  not to fly, and she has provided  medical  evidence
in support of this. And this policy  doesnt provide any cover if a policyholder travels against
Ref: DRN14419242medical advice. But this doesnt automatically mean that IPA is responsible  for paying Mr
and Mrs Bs claim  the claim  is only covered under their policy  if it was as a result  of an
unexpected event.
Both IPA and our investigator said Mr and Mrs Bs trip was booked on 21 January 2019.  But,
based on booking  confirmation emails Ive seen, Im satisfied the trip was booked on 4
January 2019.
The insurance policy was purchased on 21 January 2019.
Mrs Bs GP has said Mrs B first consulted with infertility problems in January 2018. Mrs B
has told us she started  IVF treatment on 21 January 2019, which  is the same date the
insurance policy was purchased.
It appears Mrs B was advised  not to travel following a consultation on 4 February 2019.
Mrs B then had an egg collection procedure on 15 February 2020 and an embryo transfer on
20 February 2020. These dates were immediately before  and after the dates  Mr and Mrs B
had planned  to travel.
I understand that, when undergoing IVF, patients are monitored  daily due to the uncertainty
of when is best to move  onto the next stage. I appreciate  this can be decided at short  notice,
and Mr and Mrs B say they were  only informed about the exact dates for the IVF three  days
before they were  due to depart on their trip.
However, the hospitals email dated 3 July 2020, says:
we advised you, prior to starting stimulation, to avoid travelling after stimulation has
started until after the embryo transferThis  isa standard process  and advice
during an elective Assisted conception cycle.
I understand Mrs B wasnt pregnant or going  through IVF when the trip was booked. But Im
satisfied, based  on the evidence Ive seen, that IVF was planned when the trip and/or the
insurance policy was purchased.  While  the exact  treatment dates may have been unknown,
the medical evidence Ive seen indicates  that it is standard  advice  to avoid travelling during
certain stages of the IVF cycle.
Insurance is designed to cover unanticipated, unknown events. Insurers  are entitled to
decide what risks they are willing to accept in return for the payment of a premium and
insurers dont generally wish to cover situations where  there is already a reasonable
likelihood of a claim when a policy is taken out. I think, at the time they purchased their
insurance policy, Mr and Mrs B knew about circumstances (i.e. the planned  IVF) which could
reasonably be expected  to result in a claim.  This means I dont think  Mr and Mrs Bs claim is
covered under the terms and conditions  of their policy  with IPA, and I dont think  it would be
fair or reasonable  to ask IPA to pay their claim in the circumstances.
I understand Mrs B wants IPA to reimburse  her for the cost of providing a medical certificate.
However, under Mr and Mrs Bs policy, in common with most travel insurance  policies, any
medical evidence  required in support of a claim must be provided at the policyholders own
expense.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but I dont intend to recommend that IPA should do
Ref: DRN14419243anything further.
IPA accepted my provisional decision.  Mr and Mrs B didnt respond.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change  my provisional 
findings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 September 2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1441924