K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Santander Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Santander  Consumer 
Finance, has tried to collect the final payment due under a conditional sale agreement and 
has defaulted her account. Shes being helped with her complaint by her husband.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mrs E under  a conditional sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer Finance that she signed  in March 2014.  The agreement was for four years and 
Mrs E agreed to make 48 monthly payments of £189.76 and there was a final payment of 
£3,856.16. 
Santander Consumer  Finance sent a letter to Mrs E in January 2018 about  her options at the 
end of the agreement. She phoned Santander Consumer Finance a few days later and said 
that she wanted to keep  the car and reschedule the final payment. Options were  discussed 
with her and she said that shed discuss  them with her husband. But Santander Consumer 
Finance received a signed and completed form which  said that Mrs E wanted  to make the 
final payment and it should be debited  from her account in April 2018.
Santander Consumer  Finance tried to collect the payment in April 2018  but it was returned 
unpaid and Mrs E didnt pay it because she said she wanted  to schedule  those payments as 
discussed in January 2018. Mrs E complained to Santander Consumer  Finance.  It accepted 
that she didnt  receive  the level of service that it expects during  a phone conversation in April 
2018 and that she didnt  receive a promised call-back  so it offered her £50 compensation. 
Mrs E didnt accept its offer and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He couldnt say that 
Santander Consumer  Finance had done anything wrong. He said that the final payment 
wasnt rescheduled as no call was made to Santander Consumer Finance after the 
conversation in January 2018  and he said that it had acted in line with the terms of the 
agreement.
Mrs Es husband  on her behalf - has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. He says,  in summary,  that Mrs E didnt sign the end of agreement letter in 
January 2018  and it mustve been intercepted and signed by someone else. And he says 
that Mrs E isnt refusing to pay the remaining balance but wants to pay it by instalments and 
that Santander Consumer Finance has damaged her credit record  by sending  default 
payment information  to various credit reference companies whilst her complaint is still under 
investigation.
Santander Consumer  Finance says that its recorded twelve  late payments on Mrs Es credit 
file  but that her account hasnt been defaulted  and that no default has been recorded on 
her credit file. It says that the account was settled in April 2019 when Mrs E paid it 
£3,891.16.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN13710372Theres no dispute that Mrs E contacted Santander Consumer Finance in January 2018 
because she wanted to keep the car and to pay the final payment due under the conditional 
sale agreement by instalments. That was in response to the letter that shed received from it 
about her options  at the end of the agreement. Santander Consumer Finances account  
notes show the instalment  arrangement  was discussed but say that Mrs E was going  to 
discuss the arrangement  with her partner and was told that it would need at least  twelve  
working days before the due date for the payment  to process any arrangement. I dont 
consider that any arrangement for Mrs E to pay the final payment by instalments  was agreed 
during that call.
Theres no evidence to show  that Mrs E contacted Santander Consumer Finance about  an 
instalment arrangement until April 2018   after the final payment was due. But Santander  
Consumer Finance received a signed  and completed options form from Mrs E a few days 
later and she had ticked  a box which said:
I will be paying the final balance of £3856.16. Please debit this from my bank 
account on [specified date] .
Mrs Es husband says that Mrs E didnt sign that form and that it mustve  been intercepted  
and signed by someone else.  But the form was the form relating to Mrs Es agreement and it 
had been signed in a way that is similar  enough to her signature on the agreement to be 
acceptable to Santander Consumer Finance. So it tried to collect  that payment from her 
account by direct debit  on the payment due date  but the payment was returned unpaid.
Mrs E hadnt  contacted  Santander Consumer Finance  after the conversation  in January 
2018, shed said that she wanted to keep the car, it had received a signed and completed 
options form showing that she wanted to it to collect the final payment on the due date and 
theres no evidence  to show that an instalment agreement had been agreed.  I consider that 
it was fair and reasonable for Santander  Consumer Finance  to accept the signed  and 
completed options form as an instruction to collect the payment  and I dont consider that it 
acted incorrectly when  it tried to do so.
Im not persuaded that its likely  that someone  else wouldve signed and completed the 
options form to Santander  Consumer Finance  and even if that did happen - Mrs E hadnt 
made any alternative arrangements to either return the car or to make the final payment.
Mrs E then said that she wouldnt pay the amount  that was due to Santander Consumer 
Finance for the car as she wanted  to pay it by instalments. But I dont consider that she had 
any right to do so and Santander Consumer Finance didnt agree to an instalment 
arrangement at that time.  
Mrs E complained to Santander Consumer Finance. It said that she didnt receive the level 
of service that it expects  to provide  in her call in April 2018 and that she didnt  receive the 
call back that shed  been promised. Its offered her £50 compensation. Those  issues will 
have caused Mrs E distress and inconvenience  and I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to pay her the £50 that its already  offered her 
to compensate her for that distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs E then complained to this service. But the final payment remained outstanding and 
Santander Consumer  Finance recorded late payments on her credit  file. Mrs Es husband 
says that it shouldnt have done  so because shed complained to this service. But theres  no 
requirement for a business to not record late payments because  a complaint has been made 
Ref: DRN13710373to this service. I consider  the adverse information to be a true and accurate record of Mrs Es 
payment history and I consider that it was fair and reasonable for it to record that information  
on her credit  file. Mrs E has now paid the amount due to Santander Consumer Finance and 
her account  has been settled. It says that it hasnt  recorded a default on her credit file and 
that her credit  file shows that the agreement has been settled.
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  
Santander Consumer  Finance to remove the adverse  information  from Mrs Es credit file, to 
pay her any compensation other than the £50 compensation  referred  to above, or to take 
any other action in response  to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that Santander  Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Santander 
Consumer Finance, should  pay to Mrs E the £50 compensation  that its offered to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1371037