K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  didnt act fairly towards  her 
when she was in financial difficulties.
background
Ms D has been a Halifax customer for many years. Ms D got into financial difficulties and 
looked to Halifax  for help to extend the mortgage term or put the mortgage  into her 
daughters name. Instead Ms D says that Halifax harassed her for payment so she felt she 
had to sell her home. 
Halifax says that Mrs D account was in arrears  from 2013 until it was redeemed when the 
property was sold. It said that in September 2013 it looked at either  extending the term of Ms 
Ds mortgage or converting  it to interest-only  but neither was appropriate due to Ms Ds age 
and earning potential. It also didnt believe that it would have been possible to add Ms Ds 
daughter as the mortgage was in arrears and Ms Ds daughter  wasnt in employment.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as he felt that 
Halifax had responded reasonably to Ms Ds financial difficulties. Ms D disagrees saying in 
summary that Halifax didnt offer her the appropriate assistance that would have helped her 
retain her property.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D had some difficulty meeting the contractual monthly payments on her mortgage  since 
2013. I have looked at the contact notes held by Halifax which records the contact made  by 
Ms D with Halifax  staff. The first note I have  is in May 2013 when Ms D tells Halifax  that her 
daughter was helping to pay the mortgage  but has taken two months  off work to study so 
couldnt help with the payments. Ms D wasnt working at that time as she was waiting on a 
hip operation. In June  2013, Ms D offered and Halifax agreed to an arrangement of £725 per 
month.
In September  2013 Ms D told Halifax that she was upset as a member of Halifax staff had 
asked her about selling her house when she rang up to make a payment. The Halifax 
adviser apologised. Ms D said that she was waiting  compensation for a car accident.  The 
adviser noted that at the moment  Ms D couldnt  work because of a slipped disc. The adviser  
noted that there was no scope for amending the mortgage for  a  term extension or for 
interest-only as there are not going  to be any changes in the future that will enable 
customer to return to a capital and interest  contractual monthly payment. Halifax also sent a 
letter to Ms D dated 2 September 2013 saying that after completing an income and 
expenditure analysis that it had declined her request  to transfer  to interest-only or extending 
the mortgage term. 
There is a note on 8 April 2014 that Ms D couldnt clear the arrears until the following 
Monday as she was awaiting  money from a car insurance pay-out. On 10 June 2014, there 
is a note that Ms D was presently  unemployed but going into full time employment.  The next 
Ref: DRN12812472note is on 23 December  2014 when Ms D says that she was going to pay the arrears and 
the monthly payment by 28 December.
The next note isnt until 6 November 2015  to the effect that Ms D had her house on the 
market since 11 September 2015 and that it was now under offer and waiting for a 
completion date. There is a further  note that Ms D would have difficulty making the payment 
that month  as she had to carry out repairs to the electrical cable. It was agreed to review  
matters in December.  I note that in the December  call Ms D pointed  out that she was only 
one month  in arrears  whereas the Halifax adviser  was looking for further financial details. 
The adviser notes  that she explained we need  to establish situation  so I can help her set up 
an arrangement.  Ms D then sold the property in 2016.
This is a case where Ms D was behind with her payments and in a small amount of arrears  
from time to time, Ms D seemed to have a number of short term issues  such  as illness, 
unemployment and her daughters short term loss of income. Halifaxs  response to Ms Ds 
difficulties was to offer a number of short term arrangements which  seemed  to suit Ms D at 
the time.  The level of contact shown on the contact  notes isnt excessive but what I would 
expect to see. 
Ive seen no reference to the possibility of litigation to recover the property by Halifax or that 
Ms D might lose her house. Ms D says she was told that she should consider selling her 
house back in 2013. When Ms D mentioned  this to the Halifax  adviser in September  2013, 
the adviser apologised and offered to raise this on Ms Ds behalf as a complaint but Ms D 
declined to do so. That would indicate  to me that if the suggestion was made,  Halifax  quickly  
withdrew it. There is no record  of Ms D being  told to sell her house by Halifax.
I appreciate that Ms Ds recollection of events is not the same as is recorded on the contact 
notes. For example, Ms D says that she didnt ask Halifax to put her on an interest-only 
mortgage nor did she ask Halifax to extend the mortgage term. But beside the contact note 
to that effect,  there is a letter to Ms D of 2 September 2013 refusing that application which  
suggests that such an application was in fact made and that the contact notes give a fair 
reflection of the contact between Ms D and Halifax. 
Ms D says that she raised the issue of her daughter coming onto the mortgage that Halifax 
was unreceptive and said that she would have to move out. There isnt a record of this 
request and its hard to know what was said between Ms D and the person she spoke to at 
Halifax. There are complex issues about asking a younger member  of a family  to take over a 
mortgage which would have to be considered. But there is nothing  in the contact notes about 
this or indeed about the capitalisation of the arrears  which Ms D also refers to. Ms D doesnt 
appear to have made any application to have  her daughter added by a transfer in equity so I 
cant say that Halifax  unfairly refused the application. I note that Ms D made an application to 
transfer the equity  to herself previously so would have known about  such  an application.
Ms D says that she was forced to sell her house  by Halifax.  But I see nothing in the contact 
notes that would support this. Nor indeed has Ms D supplied any correspondence from 
Halifax which would indicate that it was about  to take repossession  proceedings nor have  I 
been supplied  with any letters from Halifaxs solicitors threatening such  proceedings. The 
notes suggest  that there was very little contact between Halifax  and Ms D in the eight 
months before September 2015  when according  to the notes Ms D put the property on the 
market. So, I cant fairly  agree with Ms D that it was harassment from Halifax that forced her 
to sell her house and I dont uphold this complaint.      
Ref: DRN12812473my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1281247