K820x#14complaint
Mr S took out a packaged bank account  with HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) in 2008 and he 
says it was mis-sold.
background
Mr S took out  a  fee free account with HSBC in September 2006.
He them  upgraded to an HSBC Plus Account (HPA) in November 2008. 
The HPA benefits  included worldwide family travel insurance, fee free cash withdrawals 
abroad; fee free overdrafts and better rates  for overdrafts, credit cards and savings 
accounts; car breakdown service (covering individual rather than driver or owner of car) and 
a range of other offers.
Mr S says that he didnt  understand  what he was buying due to language difficulties, and he 
wouldnt have bought the HPA if he had understood the cost and benefits clearly.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that HSBC mis-sold the account. Mr S disagrees so the case has 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ss complaint.
Firstly I need to consider  whether Mr S knew he had a choice whether to take out the HPA, 
and whether he chose to do so. I think he did and Ill explain why.
Mr S had a fee free bank  account with overdraft facilities before he took out his HPA. So at 
the time of the sale, I think its more likely than not that he was aware that there was a range 
of fee free accounts available with overdraft facilities from both HSBC and other banks and 
financial institutions. 
Mr S says that he had difficulty understanding what he was being sold as English is not his 
first language. But at the time of sale he had been  in the UK for at least two years and had 
an overdraft facility and had taken out a credit card, savings accounts  and insurance  
products; and he had experience of using  international transaction  services. So while  I 
accept he wasnt communicating in his first language, I think its more likely than not that he 
was able to understand financial products and the explanation he was given by HSBC about 
the HPA.
So in my view Mr S knew he had a choice whether to pay a fee for an account with overdraft 
facilities or not and he chose to take the HPA out. 
HSBC says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
HPA to Mr S personally or advise him to take it out. Mr S says that HSBC did advise him to 
take it out. 
Ref: DRN11131222I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr Ss needs  and circumstances  or suitability checks  to show me clearly 
that HSBC did make  a personal recommendation to him. I accept its possible that in providing 
information to Mr S and explaining the benefits of the HPA,  HSBC may have said or implied  
that it was good  idea to take out the HPA.  But this isnt the same  as giving a personal 
recommendation. And based on this services  knowledge of HSBCs sales practices at the 
time, I think its more likely than not that HSBC sold the HPA to Mr S on an information only 
basis. 
This means  HSBC did not have to ensure that the HPA was suitable for Mr S, but it did have  to 
provide Mr S with good enough  information  about the HPA so he could make an informed  
decision about whether to have it or not.
And I think HSBC did. I say this because  I think its likely HSBC wouldve described  the HPA to 
Mr S at some length as it was trying to sell the account to him. And I think the HPA would have 
been of interest  to Mr S. Mr S has said that he was aware he was being charged for the 
account, and he used the preferential overdraft facilities on offer from the time of sale.  HSBC 
has provided evidence  that Mr S travelled  during the time he had the HPA including straight  
after the time of sale. So he couldve made use of the travel insurance and he did use the fee 
free cash  withdrawal facility abroad. He also had the car breakdown cover whether he was the 
driver or owner of a vehicle or not. And Mr S took out the life choices insurance product with 
HSBC in July 2019, taking  up the 25% discount  he received because  of the HPA.
I can see nothing in Mr Ss personal circumstances  that would have stopped him using the 
HPAs benefits.  And it was for him to decide  what he wanted to use.
For completeness, I note and am sorry to hear that Mr S now has a serious  medical condition. 
But his representative  has confirmed that this took place several years after the date of the 
HPA sale. And I can see no evidence that illness  affected his decision to take out the HPA in 
November 2008.  
So, in my view Mr S knew he had a choice about the HPA and he chose to take it out. And I 
dont think there is anything HSBC didnt tell him that would have changed his mind and put 
him off taking out the HPA.
my final decision
So my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1113122