K822xcomplaint
Ms P complains  that Covea Insurance plc declined  a claim for her dogs  veterinary 
treatment.
background 
Ms P has pet insurance for her dog with Covea. Her cover started  on 1 January 2018.  In 
November 2018  the dog required treatment  for suspected mycotoxicosis  and 
Ms P submitted a claim to Covea.  Her claim was declined  as Covea said the dogs 
veterinary records showed  it had suffered from similar symptoms  in 2016, so they said its 
condition was pre-existing and not covered by the policy.
Ms P raised a complaint  with Covea about  her claim being declined.  Her vet also contacted  
Covea saying that her dogs  condition was not related  to any earlier problem and asked  for 
the claim to be reconsidered.
Covea considered Ms Ps complaint but didnt  change  their decision. They said the dogs 
records showed it had been treated for haemorrhagic  gastroenteritis in January 2016. And 
when the dog was seen  in November 2018  the treating vet noted  a a history  of severe GI 
disease. So they maintained the dogs condition  was pre-existing and not covered by the 
policy.
Ms P then complained to our service. Our investigator requested  more  information from 
Ms Ps vets about whether the 2016  treatment was linked to the 2018 illness,  and about the 
reference to severe  GI disease  in the dogs records. The vets confirmed that they 
considered the episodes  to be unrelated and that all the evidence suggested the 2018 
illness was an isolated incident. 
Our investigator felt the evidence didnt show the dog had a pre-existing condition  and asked  
Covea pay Ms Ps claim.
Covea didnt accept  our investigators opinion as they said Ms P had made a claim for a 
similar problem  in January 2016  to her previous insurers.  They  provided  copies of the details 
these insurers had sent them, which were very limited, only recording  that the treatment was 
for vomiting  and the amount theyd paid.
Our investigator considered this information  but didnt change  his opinion as he said 
vomiting could have many causes  and he wasnt persuaded that there was evidence  of a 
pre-existing condition.
Covea then obtained a report from a vet who said the records confirmed Ms Ps dog had 
been treated for haemorrhagic gastroenteritis in 2016. She disagreed  with the diagnosis of 
mycotoxicosis made by Ms Ps vet in November 2018. Her opinion was the dog had suffered 
a further episode of haemorrhagic gastroenteritis, with the same  clinical  signs  that were  
recorded in 2016. She also said that this condition has many causes and very often the 
actual cause of an episode is unknown. Our investigator considered  this report but didnt 
change his opinion  that Covea should meet Ms Ps claim. 
Covea didnt accept  our investigators opinion so the case  has come to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN16220052After our investigator considered the case  we asked Ms Ps vet whether she agreed with the 
report Covea had obtained. She has said she stands by her opinion and that the dogs 
symptoms in November  2018 were unrelated  to those it suffered in January 2016. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ps policy states that it doesnt cover costs relating from a pre-existing medical 
condition. And the policy  defines  this as any condition, or complication  directly resulting 
from or relating to that condition  that has been  identified or investigated by a vet or that has 
the same  diagnosis, clinical signs or symptoms, as a condition known to you prior to the start 
of this insurance, regardless of the areas  affected in or on your pets  body.
Ms Ps claim was declined  as Covea say her dogs records show it had pre-existing gastro-
intestinal disease, and the condition claimed  for was a continuation of, or related to this 
condition. 
What I need to decide is if this is correct and if Covea have acted fairly in declining the claim.
The dogs records show the it was treated for haemorrhagic  gastroenteritis  in January 2016.  
There are no further entries in the dogs records regarding gastric problems until November 
2018. In November 2018 the treating vet made a diagnosis of mycotoxicosis, and its noted  
that Ms P reported that shed seen the dog munching on something outside, a few days  
before she became unwell. 
The November 2018 entry in the dogs records refers to a history of severe  GI disease. 
Regarding this entry the vets have said, that this could have been worded better, they 
acknowledge that the dog has had previous  gastric  problems but didnt regard her condition 
to be linked to these. Theyve  said the dog had two separate episodes almost two years 
apart. 
I can understand why Covea would believe the dog had a pre-existing condition, based on 
this entry  in its records. But I have  to take into account what the treating vet has said, and 
also that after the January 2016 episode there is no further reference  to gastric problems 
until November 2018, almost two years  later.  Having  considered these, I dont think they 
show the dog suffered  from severe GI disease.
The vet instructed by Covea, disagrees  with the treating vets diagnosis, and says the dog 
was also seen by an out of hours vet, who considered gastroenteritis  to be the most likely 
diagnosis. She says both vets who saw the dog describe symptoms  of gastroenteritis. But 
she goes on to say that gastroenteritis has many  causes  and often the cause of an episode 
is unknown.
The treating  vet maintains that the symptoms Ms Ps dog suffered in November 2018 were  
unrelated to those  it suffered in January 2016.
In cases where there is a difference of opinion between a treating vet, and a vet instructed 
by the business, we normally  place  more weight on the opinion of the vet who has seen and 
treated the pet.
Ref: DRN16220053In this case even  though  Coveas vet believes that in November 2018 the dog suffered an 
episode of gastroenteritis, she acknowledges such episodes have many causes, and very 
often the actual cause is unknown. As she cant say what caused the dogs illness, I think  its 
reasonable to give more  weight to the treating  vets opinion, and Ms Ps account, which 
linked this episode  to something  the dog had ingested.
Taking this, and the opinion of the treating  vet into account, Im not persuaded that the 
symptoms Ms Ps dog suffered in November 2018 were related to any pre-existing condition.  
So, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Covea to decline Ms Ps claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I uphold  Ms Ps complaint against 
Covea Insurance  plc. And to put things right I require  them  to pay her claim in respect  of her 
dogs veterinary treatment  in November 2018, subject to deduction of any applicable policy  
excess.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1622005