K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that a car he got through a Hire Purchase Agreement with RCI Financial 
Services Limited (RCI)  (trading  as Nissan Finance) wasnt fit for purpose.  Although  he has 
now handed the car back he would like compensation for the inconvenience  of having to 
deal with the faults.
background 
Mr E says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement  with RCI on 2 March  2016  for a new car. 
He says there have  been several  faults with the car. For example in March 2017 a pressure 
sensor was replaced,  in October 207 the battery  was replaced, in December 2017 he paid 
£436.58 to have the diesel particulate filter (DPF) cleaned and regenerated, in April 2018 the 
washer jets and wiper  blades were replaced and the batteries were replaced in the fobs.  
Mr E added that in September 2018 the chrome trim pack  had to be refitted. He says at this 
point he asked to end his contract  early. After this there was a further problem with the anti 
theft light that needed investigation.
Mr E says although he has now returned the car he feels its reasonable to be compensated 
for the inconvenience  of having to deal with so many  faults.
RCI said it due to the age and mileage  and the fact repairs have been made it wasnt able to 
agree to the car being  rejected.  During  the time our service was looking at Mr Es complaint 
it did offer a refund of one months  payment to cover  distress  and inconvenience.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Es complaint. In her view she felt Mr E had had the expected use 
of the car having returned it with mileage in excess of 24,000 miles. However she felt Mr E 
had had a degree of distress and inconvenience  due to the issues with the car. RCI had 
made an offer to refund  one monthly payment which she felt was fair.
RCI accepted  this view but Mr E didnt. He didnt feel a refund of one months payment 
reflected the inconvenience caused  by the problems with the car, the amount  of time spent 
taking the car back to the dealers and the time he was without a car. He didnt feel there 
should have been so many problems with a car of such specification and cost. He felt a 
refund of four months payments was fairer.
Our investigator considered Mr Es points.  But still felt RCIs offer of a refund of one months 
payment was fair. 
Mr E didnt accept this and asked  for an Ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute about the problems  Mr E had with his car. As I 
understand Mr Es contract has now ended and he has returned the car. So the main  issue 
for me to look at is the appropriate level, if any, of compensation  for the inconvenience that 
Mr E had as a result of problems with the car. RCI has offered a refund of one months  
Ref: DRN17717062payment which  our adjudicator felt was fair. Mr E feels  a refund of four months payments is 
fairer.
I am not going  to go into the details  of the issues Mr E had with the car. I think our 
adjudicator comprehensively covered these in her view. As I understand it with the exception 
of the DPF all the problems were  addressed  either under warranty or by the dealership at no 
cost to Mr E.
I do think its worth noting though that apart from a service in April 2018, which I feel Mr E 
couldve expected  to take his car in for, from what he has told us there were seven other 
occasion from March  2017 to December  2018  when he had to take his car into a garage to 
have issues addressed. These ranged from replacing items such as the battery, sensors, 
washer jets, wiper blades fob batteries, keys and the body control module to cleaning and 
regenerating the DPF, refitting  the chrome trim pack investigating the anti theft light.
I am conscious Mr E took out an agreement for a new car. As such I agree with him that he 
might expect such a car not to have a significant number of issues to deal with.
However annoying as this might have been  it does seem all the issues were  addressed  but 
at some inconvenience to Mr E. We asked both Mr E and the business  how much time Mr E 
was without a car and if he was provided with a courtesy car during  these  times.  
Mr E said some jobs were done overnight.  The longest he was without a car was for two 
weeks. He said he didnt  always  have  use of a courtesy car but hasnt specified how long 
this was for. However  he said,  when provided with a courtesy  car, it was a smaller car than 
his own which made it difficult to use with young children.
Nissans response broadly agreed with Mr Es. It said the car was off the road for short 
periods. On one occasion Mr E was without  the use of his car for two weeks during which 
time he had use of a courtesy car.
On the basis of what Mr E and Nissan has told me about the periods of time Mr E didnt have 
use of his car I feel that Nissans offer of a refund of one months  repayment  is fair.
I leave it to Mr E as to whether he wishes to accept this offer or not.
Ref: DRN17717063my final decision
My final decision is that RCI Financial Services Limited (trading as Nissan Finance) has 
made a fair offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1771706