K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the advice  he received  from AWD Home Finance Limited, a mortgage 
broker and appointed representative  of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited. He 
says he was mis-sold a mortgage, a will and estate planning package,  and a legal 
administration service.
A claims  management company (CMC) brings this complaint on Mr Ms behalf.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint by way of a provisional decision,  a copy  of which  I 
attach and forms part of this final decision. I explained why I thought the mortgage  advice  Mr 
M received  was unsuitable, and what I proposed L&G should do to put things right.
I invited Mr M, through his CMC, and L&G to let me have any more evidence or arguments 
they wanted me to consider before making  my final decision.
Despite reminders, the CMC didnt reply. L&G said, in summary:
-The interest rate Mr M was paying  on his existing mortgage was understated on the 
client review form which was completed  in 2006. The rate was actually 6.59%. This 
means Mr M paid a rate of at least 2% less on the new mortgage than on the old one, 
during the initial discounted-rate period. 
-Mr M hadnt lost out because he had taken out payment protection  insurance (PPI) with the 
mortgage  it had responded to a complaint  about that in 2012. The inclusion  of the cost of 
the policy, which was around £2,500, had contributed  to the brokers  recommendation.
-It had separately agreed  to refund the £50 referral fee which  the conveyancer had paid 
the broker,  plus interest at the mortgage  rate.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm my provisional decision.
L&G has said Mr M in fact had a higher interest rate on his original mortgage than it had 
recorded in the contemporaneous documents. It hasnt, however, provided  any evidence  to 
back up that assertion.  And what it has said isnt reflected in the evidence it provided earlier. 
That earlier evidence includes a copy of a mortgage  statement  issued by Mr Ms previous 
lender, confirming an interest rate of 5.4%.  The client review form also says the rate was 
5.4%. So I dont accept L&Gs latest  argument  about the rate.
I dont think theres any dispute that the PPI policy contributed to the brokers 
recommendation, as L&G has said. But that doesnt  change my view about the suitability of 
the mortgage advice it gave.
Ref: DRN14195232my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is that Legal & General  Partnership Services  Limited  should:
-refund all the costs  involved in setting up the new mortgage, plus interest  at the 
mortgage rate from the date they were paid to the date of settlement; and 
-refund the interest charged on the cost of the will package, plus £150, as it has 
already offered.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14195233copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr M complains about  the advice he received  from AWD  Home Finance Limited,  a mortgage broker 
and appointed  representative of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited. He says he was mis-
sold a mortgage, a will and estate planning package, and a legal administration  service.
A claims  management company (CMC) brings  this complaint on Mr Ms behalf.
background 
Mr M took advice from the broker about a re-mortgage in 2006. He had an offset  mortgage which he 
was paying on a capital  and interest repayment  basis. Following the advice he received, he re-
mortgaged to another  lender on a lower interest rate, also on repayment terms.  His monthly mortgage 
payments and the mortgage  term increased slightly.
The CMC representing Mr M says he would  have  been  better off staying with his existing lender as 
that would have  avoided the set-up costs of the new mortgage  which  he couldnt have recouped 
during the initial two-year discounted-rate period. It also says the broker overcharged Mr M and was 
unclear about what the costs  of the re-mortgage would  be, the broker was wrong  to have advised  him 
to add the cost of a will package  to the new mortgage and to use a particular solicitor, had failed to tell 
him it would receive  commission, and had sold him payment protection  insurance (PPI).
L&G said the mortgage recommendation  was suitable, the lender didnt offer a free legal service, and 
the broker  was right to recommend Mr M have a will. However, it didnt think the cost of the will 
package should have been added to the mortgage, so it offered to refund the interest on that cost 
over the mortgage term. It calculated that to be £44.67,  and offered an additional £150 for Mr Ms 
inconvenience.
Our adjudicator thought that was fair. He also found that L&G had responded  in 2012 to a complaint 
about the sale of PPI to Mr M. It had said then that the claims Mr M had made  on the policy 
outweighed the cost of the premiums and interest he had paid, as well as commission  on the sale  
so Mr M hadnt lost out. The adjudicator also said L&G had offered to resolve  the issue of commission 
the broker  received from the solicitors involved in the re-mortgage, and the CMC had accepted that. 
The CMC still thought Mr M had been  overcharged for the legal service and he shouldnt  have been 
sold a will, so it asked for a review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont think the mortgage advice Mr M received was 
suitable. 
The fact find the broker completed says Mr M wanted a lower interest rate with the flexibility to 
overpay and borrow back  later. Thats what he got: the rate on the new mortgage was around 1% 
lower than the rate he was paying on his existing  mortgage. The new mortgage also gave Mr M 
flexibility to overpay.  While it wasnt an offset  mortgage, the fact find says Mr M had only been 
offsetting £6,000 of savings against his existing  mortgage, so he wasnt receiving  much benefit from 
doing so. There was also no early repayment charge due to his existing lender,  and no debt 
consolidation.
Ref: DRN14195234Importantly, however, I think its clear that the costs of the advice and re-mortgage  outweighed the 
savings Mr M could have made through having a lower interest rate in the initial two-year discounted-
rate period. A difference  of 1% in the interest rate would have saved him less than £400 a year.  The 
broker and arrangement fees alone came  to more  than £800. On top of that were  legal and valuation  
fees. Those fees were  added  to the mortgage,  meaning  Mr M would  have to pay interest on them for 
the duration of the mortgage term.
Mr Ms monthly  payments  and the mortgage  term increased following the advice he was given. While 
he did receive  a small lump sum on completion, releasing equity in this way wasnt one of the needs 
or preferences set out in the fact find. The client review notes say quite the opposite: Mr M had no 
plans to raise  capital at the moment . 
In all the circumstances, I think its difficult to see what benefit Mr M received from re-mortgaging. 
Doing so increased  his mortgage balance  and ended up costing him more,  once the fees for the 
mortgage advice and re-mortgage  were  factored  in. While he did get a slightly lower  interest rate, the 
overall cost of the arrangement outweighed any benefit of that.
There was no real need  for the re-mortgage, and I think the advice the broker gave Mr M to go ahead  
was unsuitable. As a result,  he had to pay various costs  to set up the new mortgage, and I consider a 
fair outcome  is for L&G now to refund  those costs.
The broker didnt provide the will package  Mr M took; it referred  him to another  company for that. I 
agree it wasnt appropriate  for the cost of the will to be added  to the mortgage, because  this meant 
interest was charged  on it over the whole term. I think L&Gs offer to refund the resulting  interest and 
pay some  compensation  is fair. I also understand it has made  an offer in respect of the commission  
the broker  received from the solicitors involved in the transaction, which the CMC has accepted  so I 
make no finding on that point here. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision   subject to any further evidence or arguments I receive  from the parties by 
25 March  2020  is that Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited should:
-refund all the costs involved in setting up the new mortgage, plus interest at the mortgage rate 
from the date they were paid to the date of settlement; and 
-refund the interest charged on the cost of the will package,  plus £150,  as it has already offered. 
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1419523