K820x#14complaint
Mr W is complaining  that Aviva Insurance Limited has held him liable for an accident  after he 
made a claim on his car insurance  policy
background
Mr W was involved  in an accident with another car. Mr W says that hed pulled out of his 
lane  a minor road -  into a keep way box when traffic on the main road was stationary  at 
traffic lights intending to turn right. He says the traffic lights  were on filters to go left and right. 
He says that, when  he entered  the box the traffic lights were on red. He says that the other  
driver, who was proceeding  along  the main  road,  had used the outside lane to overtake the 
stationary cars even  though he says she intended to turn left. So he says that she was in the 
wrong lane when she collided with the side of his car. Mr W said that he was stationary at 
the time,  so he thinks the other driver  should have seen his car. He thought  the other driver 
was fully at fault for the accident.
Aviva reviewed the claim, but thought that Mr W was at fault. It said that it was his 
responsibility when  exiting a minor road onto a major road to ensure the path was clear to 
proceed. It said that, as he was forced  to stop in the keep clear area, it didnt think  hed 
fulfilled his duty of care to ensure it was clear to exit the minor road.
Mr W didnt accept Avivas stance.  He thinks it settled the claim without carrying out its due 
diligence  in particular highlighting that it didnt  ask him to provide a full written  or verbal 
statement. He also said that Aviva had been  inconsistent with its explanation  for why it had 
chosen to settle  the claim. He reiterated that he thinks  the other driver was in the wrong  lane 
for her intended destination and doesnt think Aviva has taken  this into account.   He also 
maintained that he was stationary at the point of impact which he says was shown by the 
location of the damage on the respective cars.
Mr W also complained that hed been  asked  to help the recovery  driver. He says that the 
recovery driver turned up in a truck that was too big for a residential road. So he says he 
was asked to help the driver push the car around  300 metres  down the road by steering the 
car. The car was pushed  to where the accident took place. He said that he didnt  have any 
concerns at the time.  But, when he later reflected on what the driver  had asked him to do, he 
became anxious  about it.
Mr W also complained that the initial settlement letter was addressed to the wrong person. 
He thinks that this suggests there  may be a data protection breach. But he also thinks that it 
highlights that Aviva hasnt take its due care in assessing his claim.
Aviva responded to Mr Ws complaint and said that it was satisfied  that it had come to a fair 
assessment in the liability of the claim. It acknowledged the mistake with incorrectly referring 
to another person. But it said that this was typographical error,  due to the use of templates.  It 
said that the recovery driver shouldnt have asked Mr W to assist  with the recovery  of the 
car. And it offered to provide him with a hamper  as compensation. And it gave him three 
options with a description.
Mr W didnt accept Avivas offer. He was unhappy  with being offered a hamper  and, in 
particular, took offence to some of the descriptions of the hampers. And he thought Aviva 
wasnt taking the matter seriously. He also said that Aviva still hadnt given an explanation  
for why it had found him at fault for the incident.
Ref: DRN14158682Aviva responded to Mr W by email  apologising if Mr W wasnt  happy  with what it said about 
the hampers,  but it said that this description was taken from the hampers website. And it 
offered him £50 in compensation instead of the hamper. 
Mr W didnt initially  receive this email  as it was sent to his spam  folder.  And he raised  a 
further complaint  with Aviva. Aviva  responded again  saying that it had responded to his 
concerns by email,  but agreed to increase its compensation offer to £75.
Mr W remained unhappy with Avivas response.  And he thinks  it was unfair for Aviva  to link 
the two complaints together   about  the liability decision  and also the concerns he raised 
about the recovery. He says that Aviva has made it conditional on receiving the £75 
compensation that he accepts its decision on both aspects of the complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that Aviva was entitled  to settle the 
claim on the way it thinks best. And he thought it had come to a fair decision. He said that 
Aviva had initially looked at settling the claim on a 50/50 split liability,  but ultimately  decided  
to settle the other drivers  claim  in full. And he said that he was satisfied that reasonable 
steps were taken to resolve the claim  with the other drivers solicitors. So he didnt think  
Aviva had acted unreasonably in the way it defended the claim. He also thought  £75 was fair 
compensation for the service  provided.
Mr W didnt accept the adjudicators opinion. He said that hed never been told that Aviva 
had initially  considered a split liability settlement. And he said that this was ultimately  the 
issue of his complaint  in that Aviva had never  told him what  information it had relied  upon  in 
coming to the conclusion  it reached. He reiterated  that he thinks  Aviva has been inconsistent  
in its explanation for why it thought he was at fault for the accident. He said hed discussed 
his actions with his previous driving instructor who had said that theres nothing in the 
Highway Code to suggest you cant be stationary in a keep clear zone.
Mr W also said that the adjudicator hadnt  commented on whether it was fair for Aviva  to say 
that the £75 offer was conditional on him withdrawing his complaint about  the liability 
decision.
Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has raised two issues  hed like this service  to consider  the decision to hold him at 
fault for the accident, and the customer service hes received  in particular in having to 
assist the recovery  driver. I shall address each point separately.
liability decision
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos  at fault for causing  an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether  Aviva has carried  out 
a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision.
Ref: DRN14158683Mr Ws policy, like all other  car insurance policies, allows Aviva to take over, defend  or settle 
the claim.  And they say we [Aviva] shall have full discretion  in the conduct  of any 
proceedings or the settlement of any claim.  So its entitled to settle the claim,  on the best 
terms it thinks fit. And it has the ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim. But it must 
exercise this right fairly  and reasonably.
Mr W was initially  unhappy that Aviva didnt take a full written  or verbal statement before 
deciding to settle the claim. But this isnt unusual. Aviva took details of what happened when 
Mr W first reported the incident  and Im satisfied that it had a fair understanding  of what had 
happened from this. I can see from its internal records that it did carry  out a full review of the 
circumstances of the incident  and came to a conclusion  based on what  it thought would  be a 
likely outcome if the matter proceeded to court.
Mr W has set out in detail  about  why he thinks the other driver was at fault for the accident. 
As I said above, its not my role to say whether he was at fault for the accident or not, but I 
need to look at whether Aviva has taken everything  into account when coming to the 
conclusion it did. And Im satisfied that it has. Aviva  explained that it held Mr W at fault 
because of the following:
you [Mr W] were stationary in a clearly marked Keep Clear area. When  exiting a minor  road 
onto a major  road you have to ensure your path is clear to proceed. However, as you were 
forced to stop in the Keep Clear area you have not fulfilled your duty of care to ensure it was 
clear for you to exit the minor road.
Taking everything into account,  I cant say that Avivas explanation for why it chose to hold 
Mr W at fault for an accident  was unfair.  I can see from Avivas  internal records  that it did 
consider Mr Ws version of events before it came  to the conclusion it did. So Im satisfied 
that its acted fairly and reasonably in these circumstances.
I note Mr W has said that Aviva hasnt given a detailed explanation of whats  it considered  in 
its decision and how it came to it. But it wasnt required to do so. It would be impractical for 
an insurer to be required to go into such detail on every claim. It was required to give an 
explanation of why it thought Mr W was at fault for the accident. And, while I acknowledge 
Mr W doesnt agree with what it said, Im satisfied  that it has done so.
Mr W has also said that Aviva has been  inconsistent in its explanations.  But I disagree. I 
think it has sought to explain  it in different ways. But I think  the underlying reason its given 
has been the same. So I dont think its been  misleading in this respect.
customer service
Mr W is unhappy that he was made  to assist with the recovery of his car. But, while Aviva 
has offered to compensate Mr W for this, Im not persuaded that the recovery  driver acted 
unreasonably in this respect. But Im conscious that Mr W did explain to Aviva that a double 
decker sized truck would  fit along  his road on the understanding  that the road would  be clear 
as most people would  be at work.  Unfortunately there were  cars parked on the road that day 
which meant the truck couldnt fit down the road, but this isnt something I can hold Aviva 
responsible for. And I cant say it was unreasonable.
I note Mr W is unhappy  that he was asked to assist  with transporting  the car down the road. 
But hes also said that the recovery driver had said that he would return  with a smaller truck 
unless Mr W was willing to help steer it down the road. So, while  I acknowledge that he felt 
Ref: DRN14158684obliged to help,  I think Mr W did have an option  not to do so. And, as I said,  I dont think I 
can hold Aviva at fault for the fact that the truck didnt  fit along the road.
I can see that Aviva did refer to Mr W as someone else in its initial settlement letter  which it 
clearly shouldnt have  done so. But I am satisfied that this was a simple typing error. And I 
havent seen anything to show that this caused him any significant distress and 
inconvenience. 
Mr W is unhappy that Aviva initially offered him a hamper and he took offence  to the 
language it used. But I think the offer of a hamper was an attempt to try and resolve the 
matter. And I dont think it was acting  unfairly  in doing so. I also dont think there was 
anything in the language  used that was intended  to demean the situation. Once Aviva was 
aware that Mr W wasnt happy with the offer of a hamper it offered different compensation  
in initially offering him £50 and subsequently increased this to £75. I think it has looked to try 
and put things right. And I think  it has acted  fairly  in doing so.
I note Mr W has said that Aviva has told him that the offer of £75 was conditional on him 
withdrawing his complaint  about the liability. But I havent seen anything to support this. It 
seems Aviva  might have said that it wouldnt issue the settlement if this service investigates  
the complaint  in full. But it isnt unusual for a business to want  to wait to the outcome of this 
services investigation  before  issuing its compensation as the amount it might  be required to 
pay in compensation  could  change. Aviva  hasnt withdrawn the compensation offer and the 
offer remains available. 
Ultimately, while I note Mr Ws comments in this respect, Im satisfied that Avivas  offer of 
£75 in compensation is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has offered Mr W £75 in compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience its caused him. For the reasons Ive set out above, I think  this is fair 
compensation so I dont  require it to pay him anything  further.  It should  pay this to him 
directly if it hasnt already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.  
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1415868