K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has unfairly raised their 
insurance renewal premium, hasnt provided  a reasonable explanation for doing  so, and 
has failed to act in the way it should by failing to obtain appropriately competitive renewal 
quotes.
background
Mr and Mrs R had arranged their home insurance  through Tesco Personal Finance (TPF) 
for a number of years.  As Mr R has communicated with the parties on this complaint 
throughout I will refer to him in the rest of this decision  rather than Mrs R.
TPF offered him insurance through an underwriter  and renewed it each year.  Mr R says 
that he was happy with the service that hed received. 
But in 2016 he received a notice of renewal which showed the proposed  premium  as 
having risen to more  than £1500 from the previous  years  premium of around £550.  He 
asked for an explanation but says that he received only vague references via TPF from the 
underwriters to the age of his home  having been  a major factor  for the increase. Unhappy 
with the explanation and the premium sought  he obtained alternative insurance elsewhere  
at a much  lower price.
Mr R complained to this service. He felt that there was no justification for the near tripling 
of his premium and that he hadnt received a satisfactory explanation for the rise when he 
challenged it. He also felt that TPF hadnt done  its job in acting as an intermediary. 
He pointed out that in its renewal letters TPF talked about the importance of trust in the 
consumers choice of insurer and also specifically referred to having access to a number 
of carefully selected  insurers. Mr R felt that this implied that TPF used its panel to secure 
the best option, including price, for the insurance needs of its customers. He questioned  
whether it had done that as he had easily found cheaper insurance  than that offered by 
TPF. In this instance TPF had used an insurer with which it had close  business links.
Mr R felt that hed been misled. He said that TPF had taken  advantage  of the loyalty of its 
customers to pass on increased premiums without  justification. He was concerned that 
this was happening to other customers and wanted  this service to investigate.
Our adjudicator raised  Mr Rs concerns  with TPF. After  a number of exchanges and 
investigating the information supplied,  the adjudicator concluded  that TPF hadnt treated 
Mr R unfairly.  She felt that as Mr R had declined  the offer to renew, and obtained cheaper 
insurance elsewhere, hed not suffered any financial loss as a result of the higher premium 
requested. She was also satisfied with TPFs  explanation for the increased premium. It had 
explained that the underwriter had undertaken a major upgrade to the way it calculated 
risk.
This had led to a number of factors about Mr Rs property, most notably  its age, affecting 
the premium asked for. She explained that while there had been  no major change  to Mr Rs, 
or his propertys, circumstances the insurer had changed how it priced policies.  She was 
satisfied that it had done so in a fair manner that hadnt treated Mr R differently to other 
policy holders, and she explained that insurers were entitled to set their own methods for 
pricing policies.
Ref: DRN18679392I issued a provisional decision. I agreed with the adjudicator that Mr R hadnt been  unfairly  
treated by TPF but I needed  to add some further detail. TPF has indicated  that it has nothing 
further to add but Mr R doesnt accept my decision.  He specifically criticised the delay in this 
service reaching its decision on his complaint and also referred to recent publicity about 
what he believes is a related concern about insurance providers. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no new information available to make me think it appropriate  to change my 
provisional decision. So Im not upholding this complaint. I will respond immediately to Mr 
Rs comments since my provisional decision was issued.
This service has taken longer than usual to conclude  this complaint. And I add my apology  to 
others for that delay. This service has been in lengthy communication  with TPF about its 
role and the insurance model of the underwriting insurance company. While Mr R refers to 
recent publicity and regulatory announcements about  issues relating to insurance  pricing  my 
consideration is limited  to his case. As explained in the provisional decision and here, I dont 
believe that Mr R has been treated unfairly or suffered any loss due to any unfair action  in 
this case.
I should explain  that there are two entities involved in this complaint and the case was 
originally set up against the underwriter. But when  Mr R originally complained about the 
service hed received,  that complaint was dealt with by Tesco  Personal  Finance. 
I know  that both businesses are aware  of the complaint and that they consent to one of 
them dealing with it. But I think its correct  that TPF be the stated business against  whom 
this complaint is brought and so have amended our records. The reality is that at all times 
Mr R has dealt with TPF. Hes unhappy  with the role theyve performed in getting and 
renewing his insurance as well as the total cost sought. And its TPF that provides the final 
cost of the proposed insurance  premium. Im unclear whether any part of that cost contains 
commission and so can be said to be the price set by TPF rather than the underwriter. But 
it seems that TPF has so far dealt  with the complaint on behalf of itself and the underwriter, 
and its role as an intermediary is a key part of the complaint, so Im happy  that it is the right 
business to record this complaint against.
I think the adjudicator is right to say that Mr R hasnt suffered a real loss as a result of 
how TPF has acted.  He declined the renewal  and found insurance much cheaper  
elsewhere. Cheaper, I understand, than the premium hed previously been paying. But 
Mr R feels aggrieved about how hes been  treated and what he believes that represents 
in terms of the behaviour of both TPF and the underwriter. And I want  to explore both of 
those concerns in more  detail in this decision.  
Mr Rs unhappy about two issues. The price that his premium was set at for the latest  
renewal offer (and the lack of information  to justify it) and that TPF hasnt delivered the 
service he expected of an intermediary, to find him insurance at the best price. Ill deal with 
those issues separately.  
The renewal premium
Ref: DRN18679393TPF sought an explanation from the underwriter for the rapid rise in price.  I agree with Mr 
R that what he received wasnt very helpful  in explaining the position  as it included only 
fairly vague references to the age of his house  being  a major factor. 
Mr R will be aware  that the price of insurance  isnt set and that different insurers will 
operate different models for the price  they seek to insure various risks.  But its obviously a 
concern when the policy holder sees no real change in his own risks to be insured but the 
premium still rises dramatically. Mr R thinks that this is an example of an insurer  taking 
advantage of his loyalty. And hes pointed to recent  publicity about concerns around this 
type of scenario.  Im aware  of the potential for that to happen and if I felt that had 
happened here I might be inclined  to uphold the complaint.
Im aware that the underwriter has introduced major changes to its approach to 
underwriting recently.  Ive seen information  that I cant share with Mr R due to its 
confidential nature.  But Im able to say that the new approach would be seen as a more 
in-depth and complex model than previously in place  as they, like other insurers,  have 
modernised the way they assess risk. There are many factors  involved in setting  
insurance pricing and each insurer  will have its own model. Im aware that as a result of 
such a fundamental  change  of approach there are instances of sudden  changes in 
renewal premium, potentially both up and down. Mr Rs policy is an example  of that 
happening.
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Mr R hasnt been singled out for special attention.  
His increased premium was simply a result  of a major change  in how the underwriters 
assess risk. That included  a change to the willingness to insure older houses but other  
factors have changed also and had an effect  on the price.
I reiterate what the adjudicator said  that insurers are entitled to set their own approach 
to assessing risk and we wouldnt seek to assess the perceived value for money of 
policies offered. Ultimately the consumer is able, as Mr R did, to look elsewhere for 
insurance and respond appropriately if theyre unhappy with the offered price. What I 
would be concerned about  is if I felt that the price  had been  set unfairly, such  as if Mr R 
had been treated differently to other policy holders  in a similar  position.  Im satisfied that 
hasnt happened  here.
The role as intermediary
Mr R says that TPF holds itself out as acting as an intermediary who obtains  the best deal 
for its customers from a panel  of insurers. He points to the wording in their renewal letters  
that says we have  chosen to deal with a number  of carefully selected insurers. For 
simplicity I refer to this as a panel of insurers but I dont intend any formal meaning  to that 
definition.
I agree with Mr R that this could create  a false impression  with policy  holders.  As I 
understand it, once  the initial policy has been provided by an insurer, TPF simply passes 
on the renewal details offered by that underwriter  each  year.  Im assured by TPF that it 
does assess the best deal available  from its panel  for the first years insurance  cover but I 
havent seen any evidence about  how often,  if at all, different underwriters from the panel 
are used. But this is a complaint about Mr Rs experience and Im not able to include any 
issues that might be experienced  by other consumers.
But while I think  that the wording used in its letters could create confusion I have to 
recognise that it doesnt actually say that TPF searches a panel  for the best price,  either  at 
Ref: DRN18679394the initial point  of engagement or on renewal. There is potential in the use of the phrase for 
it to be misinterpreted and TPF could make its offering  to consumers clearer  if it wanted to. 
But I need to consider whether in this instance that potential to confuse had an impact on 
Mr R.
My focus in considering a complaint like this is to decide what the fair outcome is to this 
individual dispute. So Ive considered whether  I think, on the balance of probabilities, Mr R 
was misled by TPF in a way that caused him some  loss. My conclusion is that he wasnt 
misled at the time in a way that caused him a loss. When TPF offered him its renewal policy 
he declined  it and found alternative  cheaper  insurance. Mr R raises  some concerns about 
how TPF has managed his renewal which I have  sympathy with. I accept that the wording of 
the letter is capable  of causing a misunderstanding. I think  Mr R is right to point that out but I 
dont think that he necessarily relied on it at any stage as opposed to that, having changed 
insurer, he criticises TPF for its use of words. And as Ive said earlier,  Im satisfied that when 
the price was set it was a natural conclusion of a change in the premium  pricing  model as 
opposed to any unfairness  being applied to Mr Rs renewal offer. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1867939