K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that RCI Financial Services Limited  performed  unauthorised  checks on his 
credit file. He wants to have the details of the checks removed and compensation.
background
Mr H tells us that he made  a telephone  enquiry with a dealer, a company Ill refer to as N, 
about him possibly  acquiring a motor vehicle  using credit. He states that his initial  purpose  
was simply to obtain a quote. And he hadnt intended to have an application  processed  at 
this stage. He says hes since found  out that RCI had carried  out credit searches. Mr H 
states that he never gave permission for this to occur. And that his credit rating has been  
damaged. He says he complained to the Information Commissioners Office  (ICO)  and that it 
had found in his favour.  But he states  that RCI hadnt done  anything to put things right.
RCI told us that it had processed  Mr Hs application in line with General  Data  Protection 
Regulations (GDPR). And it said that N wouldve explained its (RCI) privacy policy to Mr H.
This included sharing  personal data with third parties for credit  reference checks and fraud 
prevention measures. It said N wouldve obtained consent from Mr H before using his 
personal data.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought that Mr H - 
as a potential  applicant for credit - wouldve known that it would  be necessary for credit  
reference checks to be carried out. She noted that the ICO had required RCI to review the 
matter again.  And it had done so. 
Mr H didnt agree with this outcome and raised a further issue of whether section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA) should apply  to his complaint. As its not been  possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H would  be upset at finding that hed been  the subject of credit 
searches when he felt he hadnt given permission.
At the outset I need to explain that its not for me to determine if a breach of GDPR has 
occurred. I dont apply  the law - directly  - but I do take it into account. The ICOs office has 
already issued a decision  on a complaint brought by Mr H in respect of these circumstances. 
That decision, dated 7 May 2019, found that RCI had not complied with its data protection  
obligations. And it required RCI to revisit the matter  and consider what  further  action it 
should take to resolve the complaint. It said that if RCI felt it had complied with data 
protection law it should explain to Mr H, in as much detail as possible,  why this is,
Our investigator set out a timeline in her view letter of 5 March 2020. As both parties have 
seen this I dont  propose  to repeat  it in detail here.  Briefly stated Mr Hs complaint is that
he didnt intend  for his initial enquiry to go as far as requiring credit searches. And that he 
didnt give permission for this to happen.
Ref: DRN17012492Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ill deal first with the issue of whether  Mr H has a claim under section 75 of the CCA. In my 
opinion section 75 has no application in these circumstances. The general  effect  of section 
75 is that if Mr H has a claim  for misrepresentation or breach of contract against a supplier of 
goods or services  he can also bring that claim  against RCI provided certain conditions are 
met. Here its not clear that any contract  was formed. And for a misrepresentation to occur  
not only does  a false statement of fact have  to be made it must be the reason for the 
consumer entering  into an agreement (contract) whereby a loss is incurred. Ive also seen 
nothing to show the required debtor-creditor-supplier  link is present. Nor that Mr H has 
incurred any loss.
RCI wrote  to Mr H on 15 May 2019. And it referred to the ICOs decision.  It said the ICO 
hadnt contacted it before issuing the decision. RCIs letter  contained a full explanation as to 
why it felt it had complied with data protection law. And it stated that it had fulfilled its 
obligations and processed the application  lawfully. I cant say that RCI has acted unfairly in 
providing this response.
Ive also viewed an email  chain between Mr H and Ns representative on 13 February 2019. 
Unfortunately, theres no recording of the phone conversations which  also took place.
I go back to Mr Hs stated purpose of wanting  to obtain a quote before proceeding with any 
potential purchase.  Its clear from the email exchanges that in order to obtain this quote N 
required Mr H to provide  certain personal information. Mr H initially did so before a further 
request for additional personal  details  led him to withdraw from further negotiations.
I find on a balance of probabilities that Mr H knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that 
his personal information would be used  to obtain a quote. I would expect anyone  considering  
financing a vehicle  on credit to be aware that credit  reference checks would be required 
before any credit would  be offered. Lenders  have an obligation to make  checks in order  to 
ensure that borrowers can afford to repay  the loan sustainably.
As it would be a part of its everyday business routine N would be used to processing 
enquiries about finance applications. And this would include  being aware of the requirements 
of each lender  with whom it transacted. Im satisfied  that its more likely than not that it 
wouldve made Mr H aware of the details of RCIs privacy policy  and obtained his consent  
before proceeding further. This is supported by the content of emails.
Ref: DRN17012493At 11.06 on 13 February 2019 Ns representative sends an email to Mr H which  includes  the 
following:
Please see below for the information we need for the finance application.
At 12.03 Mr H send a reply which states:
Thank you for your email.  As requested, please see below.
Its accompanied by the personal  and financial details requested in the previous email.
Had Mr H not wanted his information to be used towards processing an application it would 
have been simple to have  declined to provide any information at this stage. It seems that an 
initial credit search was made which led to the prospective lender requiring more  personal 
details. When he learned of this request Mr H decided not to proceed further.
 In summary,  I agree with our investigators  view and for broadly the same reasons. I find 
that Mr H knew or ought reasonably to have  known his personal  data was being used in 
connection with the processing of a financial application. And that he had permitted  this up to 
the point that consent was expressly  withdrawn.  
I dont think RCI needs to do anything else here. Accordingly, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 August 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1701249