K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that she had problems  accessing online banking with Nationwide Building 
Society due to an error with her personal  details.
background
In May 2019  Ms H complained to Nationwide that she was unable to register  for online 
banking. Its website said that her personal details did not match those on its records. 
She spoke  to an advisor over the telephone  who didnt pick up that there was a problem 
when they carried  out their security checks.  But when she later visited a branch  an advisor 
there found that her date of birth was recorded incorrectly.  
Nationwide said this was due to a data feed error  that occurred in 2015.  And it paid Ms H 
£50 compensation  to apologise that the first advisor shed spoken to hadnt noticed this.
Ms H wasnt  happy with this response, so she brought her complaint  to our service.  Shes  
concerned that Nationwide hasnt  been able establish why this error happened. And that it 
hasnt guaranteed that it wont happen  again.  She says she will have to spend time and 
effort sourcing another savings account provider as shes lost faith in Nationwide.
Our investigator looked at what had happened  and said they felt Nationwides  offer of 
compensation was sufficient to resolve  this complaint. But Ms H disagrees. Shes concerned 
that Nationwide hasnt sufficiently investigated  the error with its computer system. So the 
case has been passed to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Ms H will be disappointed,  but Im 
not going to ask Nationwide to do anything further here.
Before I explain why Ive reached this conclusion I think it would be helpful to clarify the 
extent of my role. Ms H has raised  concerns about  Nationwides computer systems. And 
shes told us shes worried that other  customers may be affected by similar  issues to the one 
she experienced here. 
I appreciate she feels very strongly  about these  points,  but this service deals with individual  
complaints. I cant make  broader comments about Nationwides  systems  and processes.  
And I cant ask it to make changes to these. Thats the remit of the regulator,  the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  Its my role to consider the impact of Nationwides actions  on Ms H, in the 
individual circumstances  of this complaint. 
It isnt in dispute that something went wrong here and Ms Hs date of birth was recorded 
incorrectly. I appreciate why shes so concerned about this, and that she was able to pass  
security checks  without  this error  being  picked up. 
Nationwide paid her £50 compensation by way of an apology.  And its confirmed that her 
details are now recorded correctly and shes registered for online banking.  Its also advised 
that its logged  the data feed issue with its I.T. department. 
Ref: DRN17349622Ms H has pointed out that Nationwide offered the compensation  after allowing her through 
security checks  with incorrect  details, and not specifically for the error with her date of birth. 
But having  looked at everything  that happened  and thought about the impact  this had on 
Ms H, Im satisfied that Nationwides  response was fair. And I think  its done enough to put 
things right for her here.
I appreciate Ms H will be disappointed by my decision. Particularly as shes  unhappy that 
Nationwide hasnt guaranteed something similar  wont happen again. And shes  told us shes 
looking to move her accounts  to another provider as a result.  
This is something Ms H is entitled  to do. And I accept the process of switching providers may 
cause her some further inconvenience. But I dont think  it would  be fair for me to ask 
Nationwide to pay her compensation  for this as this is an action shed be choosing to take.
my final decision
I do not require  Nationwide  Building Society  to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1734962