K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr P bought the policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out a credit  card via a postal 
application. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why below.  
Mr P says he didnt agree  to PPI being  added to his account and that he thinks  it was added 
without his permission.  I dont doubt  this is his best recollection from the time, but the sale 
took place over 20 years ago and memories can fade. Even if he doesnt remember it now, I 
think its likely BoS made  Mr P aware  that he had a choice about buying  PPI, and that he 
decided to do so, for the following reasons.
Ive seen the credit card application form which Mr P filled out. Theres a box on the form 
next to the statement Please arrange Credit Care  insurance cover to protect  my 
repayments. This box has been  ticked and Mr P has signed  and dated  the application form. 
Mr Ps representatives have said they think  the tick in the box for PPI looks  different from 
some of the other  ticks on the application form, so it isnt clear whether it was Mr P who put it 
there. However I dont  think the ticks are significantly different  I think  they all look very 
similar. And Ive seen nothing else to suggest  that anyone  other  than Mr P filled in any of this 
application form. And anyway I cant decide allegations of fraud, so if Mr P believes 
someone else added the tick after hed signed  the form, he should raise that issue  with the 
relevant authorities.
Mr P has also told us he was made  redundant some  years after he took out the PPI, but that 
he didnt claim on the policy because he wasnt aware of its existence. But even if its right 
that he didnt try to make  a claim, I dont think this shows he never knew  he had the PPI  he 
may have  simply overlooked it or forgotten.
Taking everything into account,  I think Mr P was made aware that the policy was optional  
and that he chose to take it out. 
BoS told us it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P and he doesnt  recall being given advice 
about whether  to take it. And as far as I know, he filled in the form without speaking to 
anyone from BoS. So I dont think it recommended it. 
Ref: DRN17127452 
As BoS didnt advise  Mr P to take out the policy it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it still had to give him clear enough  information so he could make a proper choice about 
taking out the policy.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr P about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. Mr P says it wasnt. But he doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy didnt cover  for example, he hasnt told us he had any ongoing medical 
conditions. 
Also, based  on what I know  about  Mr Ps circumstances  it looks like the policy  couldve been  
useful for him. Hes told us he felt he had a secure  job and wouldve received 16 weeks full 
and 16 weeks half pay from his employer  if hed been off sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out 
on top of any sick pay or redundancy payout and couldve gone on for much longer than his 
sick pay. It wouldve  helped cover his credit  card repayments for up to 12 months if hed 
been too ill to work  or became involuntarily unemployed. 
Mr P has told us he didnt have any savings or other  means  of making his repayments if he 
wasnt working at the time. I think the PPI wouldve provided him with additional cover during 
what couldve been a very difficult time. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped 
him from buying the policy.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
P paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr P back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr P now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1712745