K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy Santander  UK Plc is holding him liable for numerous  transactions made by 
his son without his permission. 
background
Mr B is disputing  around £3,000 worth of transactions  to a well-known online retailer 
between October 2017 and April 2018.  He says that during this time his son was using his 
card to make purchases for his games  console, not realising the implications of what he was 
doing given his young age.
Mr B had previously set up an account for the online retailer  using his sons details, which 
his son could freely access. Around his sons birthday and Christmas, as well as sporadically  
when his son had pocket money,  he would  sit with him and make purchases  for his games 
console. Mr B let me know that each time he did this he would enter  his card details. He told 
our investigator that while he didnt  know  this at the time, he now realises his card details 
were saved to the account. 
Mr B didnt notice the transactions for some time because they were being made from a 
savings account  that he had no need to check regularly. 
Mr B has raised the fact Santander contacted him previously  about some of the genuine 
transactions hed made to the online retailer but failed to do so for the ones  he hadnt given 
his permission for. He thinks  Santander shouldve contacted him as the transactions were 
unusual. 
Santander held Mr B liable for the transactions saying  that because  he saved his card details 
to his sons online retailer account, hed given his consent  to all further purchases. It also 
said he shouldve taken  more steps  to keep  his details secure. Santander  went  onto say that 
because he confirmed transactions  to this retailer as genuine in the past, its fraud  detection 
system saw the disputed  transactions as being made  to a recognised merchant. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  the complaint.  In 
brief, she found  that Mr B had given apparent authority for the transactions by having his 
card details stored on his sons  online retailer account. She also noted  that Mr B had 
previously used the online retailer quite frequently and already confirmed transactions to it 
as authorised. Therefore, despite  the volume  of transactions increasing, she didnt feel 
Santander had made an error in not flagging them. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings emphasising the fact that the transactions 
were made by an unauthorised minor. The complaint has therefore been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons.
Were the transactions authorised?
Ref: DRN13475092In short,  Santander  is required  to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2009  and 2017 
(PSRs). Mr B says he didnt make the transactions to the online retailer and is seeking a 
refund. So, my primary concern is to come  to a view about whether or I not I think Mr M
authorised these transactions. 
Having reviewed Mr Bs transaction history, Im satisfied the genuine card was used  in order  
for the disputed transaction to take place. Ill note at this stage that the CVV wasnt  input  for 
each of the transactions. Whilst I understand why Mr B doesnt believe he authorised the 
transactions, Im satisfied  he did, and Ill explain why. 
Mr B says that his son made the transactions without  his permission. This isnt something  
thats in dispute  Santander agrees they were  most  likely made by Mr Bs son. However,  
that doesnt mean the transactions are unauthorised.  
It is possible for someone to give someone  else authority to carry out a transaction  on their 
behalf, so they would still be liable  even if they didnt  physically perform the transactions  or 
give their explicit permission for them. This is what is known as apparent authority. If a payer 
has enabled the use of their payment  instrument  by a third party, so that it looks  to the bank  
like the payment transaction has been authorised  by the payer, the payment can be 
considered authorised for the purposes  of the PSRs.
As the investigator  explained though, this isnt to say the payer  is liable if someone  steals  
their card details for example. Although it would still look to the bank like the payment 
transaction had been authorised by the payer, the distinguishing feature is what part the 
payer played in enabling  the transactions they are unaware of.  
In Mr Bs case  he says that each  time he made a genuine purchase for his son, he entered  
the card details. However, this isnt required by this particular online retailer.  The card details  
are stored after the first use and the card is automatically selected for the next purchase.  
This is why the CVV isnt entered each time. Because of this I think  it shouldve  been 
apparent to Mr B that his card details were saved. 
Although Mr B may not have intended for his son to be able to make  purchases without him 
being present,  Im satisfied that his actions have enabled this. And this satisfies me that he 
gave apparent authority for the transactions to take place. It follows  that Santander is entitled 
to hold him responsible for the transactions. 
Could Santander  have done anymore?
Ive considered whether the transactions  were sufficiently unusual  or out of character that 
the bank ought to have  been concerned about  them  and intervened.  Having done so I do 
agree with Mr B that the frequency of the transactions increased  especially between  
January and April 2018.  However, I dont believe this is enough to say Santander shouldve 
picked up the transaction  for additional  checks.  
Mr B had used the online merchant  many times  in the past, with it making up over a quarter 
of the transactions on this account  prior to the disputed transactions.  Further than this 
though, Mr B says he received text messages  in the past from Santander  asking him to 
verify certain  transactions  to the online merchant as genuine,  which  he did. This, coupled  
with the value of the disputed transactions being within the range  of what  Mr B had 
Ref: DRN13475093previously authorised (ranging between £5 and £80), satisfies me that the transactions 
wouldnt have appeared sufficiently unusual  or out of character for Santander  to have 
flagged them. 
So, overall, while I understand Mr M reasons  for being unhappy  with Santanders lack of 
action, I dont think it would be fair for me to say it made an error in not flagging  the disputed 
transactions. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Sarah Brimacombe 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1347509