K821x#15complaint
Ms S is unhappy with her let property  insurer  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA). 
She made a claim after a water leak and it wouldnt pay for all the repairs.
background
Ms S owns a flat which is lived in by her daughter. The downstairs  tenant notified them of 
water damage to his ceiling. Ms S began trying to trace the leak. Damage to the chipboard 
bathroom floor (under the tiled finishing  layer) was discovered around the toilet (which is 
situated next to the bath). It was determined there was a leak from the cistern.
RSA accepted a claim and sent a loss adjuster  to the property. Ms S obtained estimates  and 
provided these to RSA.  Having reviewed the evidence RSA said not all the damage being  
claimed for had resulted  from the water leak. It noted there  was rot too. It told Ms S to get a 
rot report from a specialist. Ms S obtained  this and sent it to RSA. RSA compiled a schedule 
of work it was satisfied  needed completing in order to resolve the damage it felt had resulted 
from the leak. It said this would cost, at retail rates, £2,105, plus VAT. It noted it had caused 
some delay so said it would pay this without deducting the £250  excess.  
A cheque  was sent which Ms S said she never  received. In July 2019, following our 
involvement, RSA accepted its initial  cheque  had never been cashed and sent Ms S a 
further settlement  cheque  for the original amount offered.
RSA said the work it wasnt  satisfied  it had liability for had resulted from wear and tear 
and/or was necessary to resolve  rot. It said damage  in both respects  is excluded  under the 
policy. Ms Ss specialist report said rot was present and had been caused by the leak from 
the cistern. RSA never  commented on this or explained to Ms S why it didnt accept that. 
After Ms S complained to us, RSA told us that the damage in the bathroom was complicated  
because as well as the cistern leak, there was also a leak from failed sealant  around the 
bath. It said the majority  of rot was under  the bath which  evidenced that the most likely 
cause of the problem was the failed bath sealant, not the leak from the cistern.  It sent some 
photographs which  it felt supported its position.
Our investigator considered RSAs reasoning, the photographs and Ms Ss expert report.  
She felt that it was most  likely the rot was related to failed bath sealant. So she thought 
RSAs settlement offer had been fair and reasonable, apart from the fact that it shouldve 
included an amount for VAT. Our investigator said RSA should now pay that, plus interest.
RSA objected. It noted this service usually says that insurers  dont have to pay VAT until a 
policyholder has to pay such, usually on completion  of works. Our investigator wasnt  
persuaded to change  her view.
Ms S was also unhappy with our investigators  findings. She noted shed never  before been  
told there was a second leak and highlighted that her expert  had found the cause of rot to 
have been the cistern  leak.  She asked that RSA pay for all her repairs,  including those  
recommended by the rot specialist and the price of his report. She said it should  pay interest 
on the original  settlement  amount and pay to replace the bathroom suite  (not just remove 
and refit the existing  one).
As neither party was happy with our investigators  findings, the complaint was passed to me 
for a decision to be made. I felt that RSAs settlement offer had not been fair or reasonable. 
Ref: DRN19129892I said it should pay a further £2,159.91 to Ms S to reimburse her total cost to repair  the 
bathroom, which including obtaining an expert report and paying VAT, plus interest.  But 
I noted it had already  waived the £250 excess payment in lieu of compensation, so I didnt 
award anything  more in this respect. RSA said it accepted  my findings.  Ms S was pleased by 
them and clarified that RSA had not asked her to obtain a report, that she had never 
expected it to pay for things like the replacement bathroom suite and that she had 
maintained the bathroom. But Ms S said she hadnt  known RSA had sent the original cheque 
to her and she would like to receive some compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
Ms S has now had the bathroom  reinstated. So the dispute regarding VAT is somewhat 
moot because RSA always accepted it would pay this once work was done and VAT was 
incurred. But I need to share  my view on what damage I think RSA is liable for with both 
parties. In short, I think RSA did act unreasonably  when it refused to cover the cost of the rot 
repair  but Im not going to make  it pay Ms Ss full reinstatement cost as she has had work 
done which I dont  think was necessary due to the leak/rot damage  (including replacing the 
bathroom suite).
I see in RSAs correspondence with us, it says it understands  our approach to rot exclusions 
in policies. In essence that is to say that where we are satisfied  the policyholder had no 
knowledge that a leak was occurring,  once the leak and damage is found and, if that 
includes rot, we wont usually let an insurer rely on any exclusion regarding gradually 
operating causes (which  includes rot) to decline  any liability  for repairs.  RSA though said the 
issue was that here the rot had been  caused  by a leak that Ms S should have known about  
failed/faulty bath seals.
RSA hasnt provided a report  from a loss adjuster. It has provided some photos and an email 
from someone it refers to at times as its contractor  who says they assessed  the property. 
The contractor (no title or qualifications are given) said in their view that rot was due to a 
long-term leak from the bath screen.  RSAs complaint specialist later told us their view was 
that as there is extensive rot damage  under the bath that evidences that faulty sealant 
around the bath,  which has been faulty for a very long time,  is the likely  cause.  
I suppose both options are possible. But the evidence to support those differing views is 
limited. Not least as the contractor confirms they are not rot specialists.  Therefore,  neither 
the contractors  nor the complaint specialists  view count as expert opinions on the matter.  
The photos  also dont  really support RSAs complaint specialists view. They show damaged, 
possibly rotten chipboard  around the toilet. One shows some damaged, possibly rotten 
chipboard in the small area between the toilet and the bath. None  of the photos show the 
area under the bath, or suggest that any damaged, possibly  rotten  chipboard exists under 
there. RSA provided one photo of the bath. The sealant, to me, looks in good order  it is 
clean (quite  white  in fact) not mouldy and doesnt  seem to be flaking or broken at all. The 
damaged area between  the toilet and the bath might suggest a leak from the bath screen,  as 
RSAs assessor theorised, but that area is also directly  in front of the boxed in cistern.
Ref: DRN19129893Ive then considered  Ms Ss report.  This has come  from a rot specialist. Ms Ss experts view 
was that the rot had been caused by the cistern leak. Both Ms Ss specialist and RSA accept 
that Ms S wouldnt have  known about the cistern leak as the area was boxed in. The boxing 
in was finished with tiles, as was the floor.  
Given Ive been  presented  with no evidence of rot under the bath or of damaged  sealant  
around the bath,  I dont  find RSAs non-expert views of the likely cause of the rot to be 
persuasive. Certainly not in light of the expert  view Ms S has provided. Im satisfied RSA 
needs to settle  for all the damage  in the bathroom related to the cistern  leak, including 
resolving any rot.
Ms S provided an estimate that included a full break down for reinstatement work (with a 
separate estimate from her specialist for remediating the rot). That totalled  £3,435, plus VAT. 
Whilst Ms S has since had the bathroom reinstated  based on a different estimate and cost 
- Im going to use the original estimate on which to base my redress. That is because  the 
work Ms S eventually had done included replacing  the whole suite which  Im satisfied was 
not necessary  to repair the damage  caused by the leak. She also paid for a new ceiling (see 
below). The new estimate for work  isnt very detailed and doesnt include a breakdown of 
costs for areas of work, such  as for tiling, so there  is no way for me to know  what  part of this 
relates to costs RSA is liable for. 
The original  estimate  did contain a detailed  breakdown and allowed for removing and 
reinstating the existing  suite. But on this estimate  there are six pieces of work I think  it would 
be unreasonable to make RSA pay for. Four relate  to removing and reinstating the ceiling. 
Photos show the ceiling is suffering  extensive  mould  damage.  I think  its fair to say this is 
likely due to the bathroom not being  properly ventilated, rather  than a leak from the cistern 
that really was trapped and affected the structure  below and behind  the tiling. There are also 
two jobs regarding providing extra support to the floor. Ive not seen any evidence  that 
makes me think this work  would be necessary to resolve the leak or rot damage (and it 
wasnt work undertaken by the rot specialist which remediated that damage). Deducting the 
total of these works (£1,625) leaves £2,172 (which includes  VAT of £362), from this estimate 
for RSA to pay. 
But there is also the rot treatment for RSA to pay for. This was priced  by Ms Ss specialist at 
£1,949.09 (which includes VAT of £324.85).  
The is also the cost of the expert report.  Ms S says the report cost her £144 (which  includes 
VAT of £28.80).
Ive included VAT in the sums  above  as Ms S has had the work done and paid for it. She has 
incurred the cost of the VAT.  The total of the three  sums above is £4,265.09. RSA has 
already paid Ms S £2,105.18. This was sent to her on 2 July 2019.  Taking  that sum away 
from the total Ive said RSA is liable for, leaves  a value of £2,159.91 for it now to pay Ms S. 
To this amount it will have  to add interest* from 16 September 2019  (being the date Ms S 
paid for most of the work, taking her outlay beyond the sum RSA had paid her in July 2019) 
until settlement is made. 
 
Im not going  to require interest on the initial settlement amount to be paid.  RSA sent the 
cheque as promised  and it wasnt to know if Ms S didnt receive it. In contrast Ms S could  
have called RSA and let it know it hadnt been  received but she didnt. Once  RSA was made 
aware it hadnt been received, it sent this again.  
Ref: DRN19129894I appreciate this claim has been  frustrating for Ms S. It is clear RSA caused  delays at times 
and whilst it did make  some  settlement  to Ms S, that wasnt  a fair reflection of the total costs  
Im satisfied it was liable for. But RSA has waived the £250 excess  in lieu of paying  
compensation. In this case I think that is reasonable. I bear in mind  that Ms S isnt living  with 
the damage as it isnt her home. Also that she was offered around half the total repair  cost 
that RSA was liable for, and she would always have needed to fund part of the repair  cost 
herself. So Im not going to require RSA to pay any further compensation to Ms S.
I note the content  of Ms Ss reply. I thank her for her clarifications and can assure her that 
whilst RSA had argued the bathroom,  at least in some respects had not been maintained,  
I was not persuaded by what it had said. 
In terms of the initial cheque payment I can see that Ms S told RSA she wasnt  happy to 
accept an offer it had made to her  but in between that offer and the conversation which  
took place, RSA issued its final response  in which it increased its offer and said it was 
sending a cheque. I think its fair to say that there  was some misunderstanding on both sides 
here  but Im not persuaded  that RSA did anything particularly wrong in this respect,  so Im 
not going to make it pay interest on this initial sum.
I understand that Ms S put in a lot of effort to resolving this, and I have found that RSAs 
offer was unfair  and unreasonable. To be clear it is not that I dont think  compensation is due 
to Ms S. Rather RSA has waived the £250 excess payment  by way of compensating  Ms S 
for the upset it caused. If it had not done this then £250 would have been deducted from its 
repair settlement. So Ms S has been compensated already by RSA.  Im satisfied that £250 is 
fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances here, and I dont think any more 
should be paid.  
My provisional findings have not changed.  They,  along with my final comments  set out here, 
now form the findings of this, my final decision. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to pay Ms S:
£2,159.91 to fully and finally  settle  its liability for costs  incurred  by Ms S due to the 
concealed water  leak (which includes remediating rot damage).
Interest  on the above amount, applied from 16 September 2019  until settlement is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Ms S, it should tell her how much  its taken  off. It should also give Ms S a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1912989