K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her payment  protection insurance (PPI). 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2006.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Hs credit card account when she phoned  Capital  One to activate her credit card which  
shed received through the post.
Mrs H mainly complained that she never asked for PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide  how it should be settled. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint because:
I think Capital One made  Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to take 
it. I say this because Capital One had already sent her the credit card shed applied  for, even 
though she hadnt asked  for PPI. So, I think Mrs H wouldve known  it was open to her not to 
take out PPI if she didnt  want  to have it. 
Theres no call recording. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs H to remember 
everything that was discussed as this was a long time ago. But, based on what this service  
knows about the way Capital One sold PPI, I think its likely that during the phone call Mrs H 
was persuaded  of the benefits  that PPI offered her. I think it was added  to her account  when 
she requested this. I say this because,  from then on, shed have been able to see from her 
monthly credit card statements that she was paying  for PPI. So if it hadnt  been something 
she wanted she couldve taken this up with Capital One  Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
happened. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for her. 
Mrs H was eligible for the policy. Ive taken into account that Mrs Hs employer wouldve paid 
her between 3 and 6 months sick pay. But the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months 
per accident  and sickness claim. So the PPI provided better protection than she couldve 
relied on getting through her employer.  And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing 
Mrs H with a useful  benefit at a difficult  time  especially  bearing  in mind that she mightve  
had some extra costs  as a result  of being sick or disabled.
PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs H lost her job and 
became unexpectedly  unemployed.
Ref: DRN11456842Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change.
Looked at overall, I think Mrs H couldve benefitted  from the PPI. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But Mrs H chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the things the policy  didnt cover and the policy 
was apparently affordable. So I dont think better information wouldve  stopped  her buying  it.
This means  Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:  
Capital One (Europe) plc got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more  than 
50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mrs H about that. Because Capital 
One (Europe)  plc didnt tell Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One (Europe)  plc has paid back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1145684