K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the handling of their home insurance claim for fire damage by 
Ageas Insurance Limited and its loss adjusters.  
background
The background to this complaint is well known by both parties  so I dont intend to repeat it 
in any great  detail here. But, in brief, Mr and Mrs C suffered a fire at their home at the 
beginning of May 2017. Ageas accepted their claim, appointed loss adjusters and moved 
them into alternative  accommodation (AA). 
It took almost a year for the claim to be settled. Due to the lack of progress, Mr and Mrs C 
appointed their own loss assessor to assist them with the claim.  There were  extensive 
delays by the loss adjuster in sorting  out the claim and delays in them receiving the final 
settlement payment. Mr and Mrs C said the loss adjusters poor handling  of the claim had 
had a particularly  disruptive effect on Mrs C and their four children who had been caused  
emotional stress and anxiety. They said at one point they had been rendered  homeless 
when the loss adjuster failed to authorise  the AA payment to the letting agent in time.  They  
said this caused  them un-necessary stress  and inconvenience.  
Mr and Mrs C complained  to Ageas and to the loss adjuster. The loss adjuster wrote to them 
in mid-December 2017 and admitted  that there had been significant delays particularly in 
raising the relevant settlement amounts and making  AA payments. He acknowledged thered 
been general handling issues and poor communication. The loss adjuster paid Mr and Mrs C 
compensation of £500 in recognition of the poor service theyd received. Ageas wrote to 
Mr and Mrs C in January 2018 and said that as its loss adjuster had addressed  the issues  
theyd raised it would close its complaint file down. 
Mr and Mrs Cs claim  was settled at the end of April 2018. They then brought  a complaint to 
this service. They said they felt the compensation offered for the level of distress  and 
inconvenience caused by the poor handling of their complaint was insufficient.  They  thought 
£6,000 was a fairer  reflection of the trouble Ageas had caused them. They  also said they felt 
that other  costs theyd  incurred should be reimbursed.  
Our investigator recommended that their complaint by upheld in part. She didnt  think Ageas 
needed to pay them a disturbance allowance for the time they were  without AA, but she 
thought it should pay the additional childcare costs  incurred as result  of the delay in 
releasing payment.  She thought it was reasonable that Ageas appointed a second  restorer 
to assess which contents were BER (beyond  economic repair). She didnt think Ageas 
should pay Mr C for lost earnings as a result of him attending a site meeting at short  notice 
or compensate them for having to give up their puppy. But she thought  Ageas  should pay 
interest (at this services usual rate of 8% a year) on the buildings  settlement amount agreed  
and accepted in September 2017  but not paid until about 10 weeks later and that it should 
increase the compensation payment to £1,000.
Both Ageas and Mr and Mrs C disagreed with our investigators findings.  Mr and Mrs C said 
theyd like Mr Cs loss of earnings  reimbursed, along with the cost of phone calls theyd had 
to make and theyd like the amount of compensation increased. Ageas disagreed that it 
should pay for any childcare costs  because it didnt think  there  had been any period the 
family had been  without  AA. And it disagreed with the recommended  increase in 
compensation. 
Ref: DRN10178182Our investigator wasnt persuaded by either party that she should change her opinion. And 
she didnt think Ageas should  reasonably be made to reimburse the cost of the phone  calls 
Mr and Mrs C had claimed for. 
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision in November 2019. 
I made  the following provisional  findings: 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I think its fair to say that Ageass  loss adjuster lost control of this claim.  I also think  its fair to 
say that, because he did, Mr and Mrs C and their young family were  caused significant, 
avoidable inconvenience. And upset  followed on from that inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs C have repeatedly acknowledged that a fire claim like theirs  comes with a 
certain degree of inconvenience and aggravation. They say they expected that. But theyve 
also been quite  clear that their complaint isnt about the inconvenience caused to them by 
the fire itself, but rather by the way their claim was handled by Ageass loss adjuster. Having 
reviewed the file, I would  have  to agree. 
It is worth mentioning here, at the start of my provisional findings,  that this service isnt the 
industry regulator. It does  not fine, punish  or reprimand financial businesses. Rather it fairly 
and reasonably resolves individual  complaints. And the awards we make  for trouble, upset 
and inconvenience  are considered, measured  and based upon our long-standing approach. 
For ease of reference Ill use here the same sub-headings used by our investigator when 
issuing her opinions  on this complaint. 
alternative accommodation
I can see that AA was used by Mr and Mrs C throughout the whole  time they were  out of 
their home. Ive seen  evidence from the letting agent  that they lived in 3 different properties  
in all. I understand the need  to move AA was due to a lack of suitable  rentable 
accommodation for a family of six in their area.  I understand  a couple of the houses werent 
that comfortable and that Mrs C took it upon herself to source AA because  she was familiar 
with the area. 
I can see that about three weeks before  the end of the tenancy on property two, 
Mr and Mrs Cs loss assessor was in contact with the loss adjuster about  securing the next 
house and consent was given to proceed  a couple of days  later.  The same day, the loss 
assessor sent the loss adjuster the letting agents  invoice for the security  deposit. She 
chased him four days after that, again in another two days  and again five days later.  She 
chased the following day as well but still had no response from the loss adjuster that the 
payment had been made. The loss assessor  tried contacting the loss adjusters manager on 
7 September as payment  was required by close of business the following day. The manager  
finally called back and said that the BACS transfer should be done shortly. 
When Mrs C went to the letting agent on Saturday  9 September the agent wouldnt  give her 
the key because hed not received  the payment. Mr and Mrs C had a removal  van booked  
Ref: DRN10178183for the Monday, Mr C had taken a day off work  to help with the move  and they needed to 
vacate their existing property by midday but as it stood, they had no property to move  into.
The payment reached the letting agent  later on the Monday  but by this point Mr and Mrs C 
had made  arrangements  to stay at a friends  property and it was left to Mrs C to rearrange 
the moving of their belongings to the new AA over the course of the week on her own.         
Mr and Mrs C say they incurred additional costs as a result  for eating out and childcare.
I can see from Ageass timeline that the loss adjuster informed it on 25 August 2017 that AA 
had been approved at £7,200. Why the loss adjuster ignored the repeated  telephone  calls 
from Mr and Mrs Cs loss assessor that followed is unexplained, as is why the BACS  
payment wasnt actioned until late on Thursday 7 September and only then after the loss 
assessor had escalated the issue.  The stress caused to Mr and Mrs C by the loss adjusters 
actions was wholly un-necessary. 
Mr and Mrs C accept that they wouldve needed  to pay for childcare on 
Monday 11 September 2017.  But they didnt anticipate needing it for the remaining four days  
that week because  they shouldve moved  into to their new AA on the Monday. But Mrs C 
spent the rest of the week moving their belongings in (which I understand theyd stored with 
various family and friends over the weekend) whilst Mr C worked.  The cost of the additional 
childcare is a direct result  of the inaction  of the loss adjuster. I think its fair that, upon 
provision of proof of what they paid, Ageas should reimburse  Mr and Mrs C for this amount 
and add interest to it at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date they 
paid it until the date of settlement.
Mr and Mrs C have also claimed  costs  for eating out during that week.  They say they should 
receive a disturbance allowance for the week. They say their friends house had no cooking 
facilities. But they did have the keys to the new AA from the Monday and so had access to 
the cooking facilities there. Whilst I appreciate  it wouldnt have been ideal, I cant reasonably 
say that Ageas left the family without essential  cooking facilities. So Im not minded to make 
Ageas pay the family a disturbance allowance for the four days  in question.
Mr and Mrs C say that under the policy terms they are entitled to receive a disturbance 
allowance and that they were told by the loss adjuster they would be paid one for the first 
few days of the claim (in addition to the one mentioned above). I cant see any reference to a 
disturbance allowance in the policy document though. And Ive seen no evidence  that the 
loss adjuster promised  one either.  That said, there neednt be a specific  policy  provision in 
place for this service  to require an insurer to pay such  an allowance if its reasonable to do 
so in all the circumstances. But, for the reasons Ive given above  I dont  think I can 
reasonably require a disturbance allowance to be paid. 
loss of earnings
Understandably, when the loss adjuster decided to appoint a new restorer  in 
December 2017  and hold a site meeting,  Mr C wanted to be there  in order  to try to avoid any 
further delays  from happening. Hes said he had to cancel a shift he was working in order to 
do so. Ive seen  evidence from a colleague  who confirmed the shift was scheduled  for 7pm-
midnight the day before  the meeting at a rate of £340.05. Whilst the shift of course had a late 
finish, I cant say it wouldve prevented Mr Cs attendance at the meeting the next day. So 
I cant reasonably say Ageas should reimburse  Mr C for the loss of earnings he incurred  as a 
result of the decision he took to cancel the shift.
Ref: DRN10178184loss of family  pet
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Cs complaint that if the claim had been better handled, with 
fewer delays, they wouldnt have made the difficult decision to re-home their puppy.  They  
said they werent told that their policy covered them for kennel costs  (although  I note the AA 
accepted dogs in any event) but nor can I see that they made  Ageas aware they had a pet or 
the difficulties  they were  having with it. Whilst I sympathise  with their reasons for deciding  to 
re-home the puppy, I cant reasonably  make  Ageas pay them  £450  which  is what they paid 
for the puppy  six months before the fire. But I note their comments that re-homing the puppy  
was just one of the consequential effects the poor claim handling had on them (that Mrs C 
had insufficient  time because  of the claim to devote  to it). So Ill be taking the emotional  
impact re-homing the puppy had on the family into account when considering what 
compensation to award Mr and Mrs C. 
phone bills
Mr and Mrs C have lately claimed  for the cost of phone calls they made which  they believe to 
be the result  of the failings in the way their claim was handled. But the calls theyve 
highlighted were  made to furniture and department  stores  and to a company in Germany  
about cutlery. Its reasonable to think that these calls were  necessary as a result of the fire 
itself and not the result of the way the claim  was handled. Replacement  contents would 
always have needed  to be sourced so I cant fairly require Ageas to pay for these calls. 
delays
Our investigator highlighted, and Ageas didnt dispute it, that thered been  a delay in paying  
the buildings  settlement  to Mr and Mrs C. I understand that delay was about 10 weeks.  
Thats not acceptable and it was wholly avoidable.  I agree that Ageas  needs to pay interest  
on the buildings claim settlement  amount  at this services usual rate of 8% per year from the 
date Mr and Mrs C accepted the amount offered to the date it paid it. 
Ive already referred above to the avoidable  delays  in releasing the security deposit for the 
AA.
I wont go into any great detail here,  but I can also see there  were  significant delays in 
relation to settlement of the contents element of the claim. Im persuaded that the initial 
under-valuing of the damaged contents by the loss adjuster  (meaning  he placed a reserve  of 
just £18,000 on the claim) contributed to the delay. Naturally, when the BER list was 
forwarded to Ageas and the contents  claim value was revised significantly upwards 
(ultimately being settled  at £77,000) Ageas sought to review  it and thought  the appointment 
of a second restorer  may assist it in reducing  what needed to be paid out (some  items 
possibly being  capable of being cleaned rather than replaced). That I can understand. But 
the need to do so wasnt the fault of Mr and Mrs C. If the loss adjuster had more accurately 
assessed the damage (and Mrs C has provided  evidence that she challenged him at the 
time about the values he was placing on their contents) then the second appointment (and 
yet more delay) would  likely have been  avoided. 
But even before this thered been significant  delays and repeated chasings (almost  all of 
which appear to have gone  unanswered) with this aspect of the claim. The loss assessor 
repeatedly attempted to get a detailed contents offer from the loss adjuster. And when  the 
offer came (and was subsequently increased) it wasnt itemised  or broken down in any way. 
Ref: DRN10178185So Mr and Mrs C couldnt make an informed  decision  about whether to accept it. Further     
to-ing and fro-ing followed,  all of which, Im satisfied was avoidable. 
As stated, this is just a summary of some of the issues that Mr and Mrs C experienced.  But 
Ive read the file, and I note that the loss adjuster in its final response hasnt denied delays 
occurred, and I take the impact all the delays had on them  into account when deciding what 
compensation to award. 
trouble and upset
Mr and Mrs C have provided  detailed  comment on how the fire and the claim affected their 
whole family.  Ive noted the sensitive information  theyve  shared about the impact it all had 
on their children. 
When deciding what compensation to award  I cant take into account  the impact  the fire itself 
had. Thats because the fire wasnt the fault of Ageas. I can only look at how Ageas/the  loss 
adjusters actions affected the family. And I note that Mr and Mrs C acknowledge that. 
And in deciding what a reasonable award for the trouble, upset and inconvenience that was 
caused should be, Ive taken into account  the poor handling  of their claim by the loss 
adjuster and the consequences this had on them. These included the significant 
inconvenience of repeatedly chasing  for action, responses and payment; the frustration  at 
not having calls returned; the un-necessary failure  to pay the security deposit in time and the 
consequential inconvenience this caused;  the delay in settlement payments; the failure to 
properly assess the contents claim at the outset causing further  avoidable delay later on and 
the emotional impact  of having to re-home their puppy. 
I acknowledge that the loss adjuster offered to pay Mr and Mrs C compensation of £500  but 
I dont think that fairly reflects the level of inconvenience and upset they were  caused. 
Mr and Mrs C think a fair amount of compensation for the impact the poor claim handling on 
them is £10,000. Initially they said it was £6,000 (£1,000  for each family member). So 
I appreciate that what I think  is a reasonable amount  will come as a disappointment to them. 
But I think that the amount Im recommending reflects  the impact  Ageas/the  loss adjusters 
errors had on Mr and Mrs C and is in line with awards this service has made for similar 
complaints. So for the reasons Ive given, I think that Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs C total 
compensation of £2,500. I think this amount is a fairer reflection of the trouble and upset they 
were caused. 
If Mr and Mrs C have already been  paid £500  Ageas need only pay them  a further £2,000  
but if they havent it should pay them £2,500. I would  be grateful if Mr and Mrs C could let 
me know in response  to this provisional  decision whether  they received and cashed the 
payment of £500.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to do the following:
Upon provision of proof  that Mr and Mrs C paid childcare costs  for 
Tuesday 12 September 2017  to Friday 15 September 2017, reimburse the sum paid and 
add interest* at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year to that amount from the 
date the payment was made  to the date it settles  my award;
Ref: DRN10178186Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the buildings  settlement amount from the date that 
Mr and Mrs C said they accepted it to the date it was eventually  paid;
Pay Mr and Mrs C total compensation of £2,500 for the trouble, upset and inconvenience 
they were caused by its loss adjusters poor handling of their claim.  
Ageas acknowledged receipt of my provisional  decision but didnt respond. Mr and Mrs C 
replied to my provisional decision  and said they welcomed my comprehensive review of their 
complaint and accepted my provisional  findings and recommendations. They  also made 
three minor points. These were: 
Theyd rejected  the £500 compensation offered to them by the loss adjuster in 2017 and 
hadnt received  any compensation payment to date;
That they were confident  that both the original and the replacement  loss adjusters had 
confirmed that theyd be entitled  to a disturbance allowance. So they asked that 
I reconsider making Ageas pay one for all six family members for the three days  after the 
date of the fire;
They wanted to know the deadline for producing an invoice  for the childcare theyd paid 
for from Tuesday 12 September 2017  to Friday  15 September  2017 because  the 
childminder had now moved away and wouldnt be back before Christmas. 
The complaint was referred  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have confirmed that theyve not already  received compensation of £500 from 
Ageas. This means it must now pay them the compensation  Ive awarded of £2,500, as set 
out in my provisional  decision. 
Mr and Mrs C have said again that they were  told by the loss adjusters theyd be paid a 
disturbance allowance for the first few days of the claim. A disturbance allowance is paid by 
an insurer (or can be awarded  by this service if it thinks it shouldve reasonably been paid) 
when a policyholder (and family) is without access to essential  services such  as cooking and 
washing facilities. But in order to make  Ageas  pay Mr and Mrs C a disturbance  allowance for 
the first three days of the claim Id have to see evidence that they were without access  to 
such facilities. 
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs C Ive not seen any evidence that they were.  Nor have I seen 
any evidence that the loss adjuster promised one either. As I said in my provisional findings,  
there neednt be a specific policy provision in place  for this service to require an insurer  to 
pay such an allowance if its reasonable to do so in all the circumstances. But here I dont  
think I can reasonably require Ageas to pay Mr and Mrs C a disturbance allowance  because 
Ive seen no evidence  that they had no access to essential services.  
Im requiring  Ageas to pay Mr and Mrs C for the cost of childcare  they incurred from 
Tuesday 12 September 2017  to Friday 15 September 2017. Mr and Mrs C have asked how 
long theyve got to produce the evidence of the cost incurred.  They  should be aware that it is 
to Ageas that they must  produce  the necessary proof rather  than to this service. Ageas 
should be aware that I anticipate that it will contact Mr and Mrs C when its received this 
Ref: DRN10178187decision in order to facilitate the payment of my award and to liaise about production of the 
proof of the childcare  costs. 
Mr and Mrs C have said their childminder from 2017 is coming back  over Christmas, so 
Ageas wont have too long to wait before Mr and Mrs C are able to send it the necessary 
proof so it can settle my award. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following: 
Upon provision of proof  that Mr and Mrs C paid childcare costs  for 
Tuesday 12 September 2017  to Friday 15 September 2017, reimburse the sum paid and 
add interest* at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year to that amount from the 
date the payment was made  to the date it settles  my award;
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the buildings  settlement amount from the date that 
Mr and Mrs C said they accepted it to the date it was eventually  paid;
Pay Mr and Mrs C total compensation of £2,500 for the trouble, upset and inconvenience 
they were caused by its loss adjusters poor handling of their claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much  its taken off. It should also give them a certificate  showing this 
if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1017818