K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited (Prudential) unnecessarily 
delayed the payment of his pension, which caused him distress  and inconvenience, for 
which he would like to be adequately compensated.
Mrs D assists Mr D in his complaint but for ease, I have referred to Mr D throughout my 
decision.
background 
Mr D holds a section  32 pension with Prudential. In or around mid-December 2017 he 
instructed an IFA to obtain retirement quotes and assist him in planning how to access  his 
pension.
Between December  2017 and April 2018 both Mr and Mrs D had to chase the IFA for 
information and to establish why they hadnt received the information they needed to make a 
decision. The IFA told them he was waiting  for information from Prudential.
On 1 May 2018,  Mr and Mrs C dispensed with their IFAs services and contacted Prudential 
directly to obtain retirement  quotes.
On 14 May 2018, Mr D chased Prudential for his retirement quoted which  he received in an 
e-mail on 18 May 2018.
On 22 May 2018, Mr and Mrs D decided to proceed  with their chosen option  and contacted  
Prudential to ask for advice from Prudential Financial Planning. He chased  this up a few 
days later.
On 30 May 2018, Mr D called the Prudential and was told an appointment had been booked  
for 11.30 am on 31 May 2018 but this would need  to be moved to 13.30  the same  day due to 
a problem with staffing. Mr D was unhappy  as this meant him changing his plans.
Prudential emailed the retirement  quoted  to Mr D on 31 May and he signed to take his 
pension benefits  on 1 June 2018.  Prudential had to make a follow up call to M D to complete 
some risk warning questions before processing  his request.
Mr and Mrs D felt these delays were  unacceptable and complained  to Prudential. They 
reviewed what had happened. They said they couldnt agree they had made  errors in 
relation to providing information to their IFA. But they did agree  that they hadnt provided Mr 
D with the level of service  they would have expected from 01 May. They paid Mr D £125  
which consisted of £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset this had caused Mr D and 
£25 for the phone calls he made. They also backdated the annuity payment and applied  
interest for the time he had been  without the pension  payment.  
Mr D didnt feel this reflected the trouble  and upset this matter  had caused Mr D and so they 
asked this service to look into things for them.
Our investigator looked carefully at all the information. He agreed  with Prudentials findings  
in their final response letter. He thought they had provided timely information to Mr Ds IFA 
but although the information they provided  to Mr D after 01 May was just within their service  
Ref: DRN15089542level agreements he could understand Mr Ds frustration with the delay in receiving his 
pension payments. But he thought Prudential had recognised this, offered  fair and 
reasonable compensation for the trouble, and upset  caused including awarding  interest  on 
the delayed annuity payment. He didnt think Prudential needed  to do anything  further.
Mr D disagreed and so he asked for this review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im in agreement with the 
investigators view and for broadly the same  reasons. Please allow  me to explain why.
I can appreciate from Mr Ds point of view, he has been trying to sort his pension out since 
December 2017  and that seems a very long time to wait until the summer of 2018.  From  the 
information, Ive seen there are two periods to consider.  The first being the time Mr D 
instructed an IFA to deal with his pension affairs in December 2017. The second being the 
time from dispensing with the IFAs services in May 2018 and dealing  with Prudential 
directly. 
Ive looked at the correspondence between Mr Ds IFA and the Prudential. It provided any 
information and responded to requests in a reasonable timeframe. I cant see there were any 
unnecessary delays on Prudentials part. I appreciate Mr D has said the matter wasnt 
progressing but the available information  and timeline of events  suggests  it did respond to all 
the requests from the IFA within the service  level agreements.   I can understand Mr D not 
being clear about  where the responsibility  for the lack of information and progress of his 
pension lay  between  December 2017  and May 2018, but I cant  reasonably hold Prudential  
responsible for any delays  there  may have been in the correspondence  between the IFA and 
Mr D.
Ive then looked at the timeline  of events from when Mr D decided  to deal directly with the 
Prudential. Although the Prudential have operated within their service  level agreements  they 
are on the long side. But, Mr Ds pension had features that can make things less 
straightforward. The regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority, sets out the standards and 
rules a firm must abide by.Prudential have a responsibility to ensure  Mr D is fully aware  of 
the decisions he was making and any potential  implications of them. I appreciate Mr D was 
very unhappy with the risk warning conversation they had with Prudential.  The risk warnings 
are also set out by the regulator  and are not to dissuade Mr D from taking his benefits but 
designed for their protection and to ensure all potential  risks have been  discussed and 
considered.
Having looked  at the information provided Im not persuaded Prudential  have acted  unfairly 
or created unnecessary  delays  in Mr D taking  his benefits albeit I can understand the 
frustration, but its important a firm acts with due diligence and its incumbent  on it to adhere 
to the regulators rules  for the protection of its customers.
With regard to Mr Ds request for access to the pension planning service, Im not persuaded 
Prudential provided  the level of service  Mr D should  have expected, but they have 
recognised that. I understand  Mr D doesnt feel this adequately reflects  the upset he has 
experienced but my role is not to penalise or fine a business. If errors have been made I 
would look at redress to put Mr D back in the position he would have been in had the error  
Ref: DRN15089543not occurred.  On balance I think their offer of £100  for distress and inconvenience, a refund  
of the telephone costs Mr D incurred and backdating the annuity to 31 May with interest is 
fair and reasonable redress and so Im not going  to ask them to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given Im partially upholding this complaint  and I direct  Prudential 
Assurance Company  Limited to:
pay £100 for distress  and inconvenience
pay £25 for associated telephone costs
backdate the annuity  payment  to 31st March  and pay interest  as indicated of £8.98  
(£11.22 gross less HMRC deduction of 20% = £2.24)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1508954