K821x#15complaint
In 1999, Mrs S took out a credit account with a high-street retailer.  Alongside the account, 
she also took a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy. She believes that the policy  was 
mis-sold to her and has asked for a refund  of all the premiums she paid for it, plus interest. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) provided the insurance and has taken  
responsibility for the way the policy was sold. To keep things simple, Ill therefore use the 
term FICL throughout this decision when discussing actions taken by all those involved in 
selling the policy to Mrs S. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case. The adjudicator found that Mrs S 
had two health conditions when FICL sold her the PPI policy  and that it wouldnt have 
covered her for any claims which resulted from these  conditions. So the adjudicator 
recommended that FICL should uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. FICL didnt accept the 
adjudicators assessment  and asked for an ombudsman  to review the case, so it has come 
to me to consider and make  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I agree  with our adjudicator that its unlikely that the policy FICL sold to Mrs S would have 
covered her for any claims resulting from the health conditions  she had when she bought it. 
FICL also seems to have  accepted this. 
FICL had a duty to tell Mrs S about the policy and its significant features fairly  and clearly. 
This included telling her about the main  exclusions in the policy which  could have affected 
her. It hasnt shown convincingly that it met this duty. 
FILC has accepted  that Mrs S had problems with her health  when it sold her the policy,  but 
has argued that there is nothing to suggest that these conditions affected her ability  to work. 
It has said that it thinks its unlikely that Mrs S would have  needed to claim on the policy  for 
these conditions and so the policy was suitable  for her despite them.
FICL has sent us some  notes about  its own investigation into Mrs Ss complaint which say it 
didnt intend to find out more about  her health conditions. However, it has not explained 
sufficiently clearly  why it then decided that Mrs Ss health conditions werent severe enough  
to lead her to take time off work.  
Mrs S has told us that she had needed to take time off work for at least one of the conditions 
which affected her breathing. Shes  explained that she worked in a dusty environment and 
that despite taking medication she had needed  time off work for this condition. I think her 
other condition could also have led to her taking lengthy periods off work. 
So, despite  FICLs comments,  I dont think Mrs S would have taken the policy if it had told 
her that claims resulting from her health  conditions wouldnt be covered. 
Ref: DRN13527172FICL should now put things right by paying  Mrs S fair compensation.
putting things right 
FICL should put Mrs S back into the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. I understand that she has closed her account  and that the policy  ended  at that time. So:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs S wouldve owed when she closed her account if 
the PPI policy  hadnt  been added.  
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI, as well as any interest added to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs S owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it, until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If, when FICL works  out what Mrs S would have  owed each  month without PPI, she paid 
more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs S paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs S 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her account. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint  against  Financial  Insurance  Company 
Limited. It should put things right by paying  her the fair compensation I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1352717