K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Career Development Finance Limited (CDF) has declined his claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (S75). 
background
In March 2008, Mr B enrolled onto a training course with a provider I will call S. The price of 
the course was £3,700. Mr B paid a £100 deposit and the remaining balance was financed 
through a fixed  sum loan agreement from CDF.  The agreement  was interest free and Mr B 
was required to make 36 monthly  repayments  of £100. 
Mr B stopped submitting work for the course  in 2010. He says he decided  to pursue a 
different career at the time but always intended to complete  the course at a later date. In late 
2018, Mr B says his friend made him aware that there had been  reports of S falsely  
declaring their courses were accredited when  they werent. Mr B then made a complaint to 
CDF asking for all his payments to be refunded because he says the course was 
misrepresented to him. He said S75 gave him the right to get a refund. 
CDF said that it wasnt liable for a claim under S75 because under the Limitation Act 1980,  
he had brought  his claim too late. It said it had been  more than six years since he entered  
into the contract with S. Mr B referred the complaint  to our service.  CDF didnt think  our 
service could consider  the complaint because of the time limits.
An ombudsman here issued a decision to say our service did have the power  to consider 
Mr Bs complaint about CDFs response to his S75 claim  and complaint.  
I sent Mr B and CDF my provisional  decision on 14 December 2020,  covering the merits of 
Mr Bs complaint. I explained why I wasnt planning  to uphold the complaint. I said:
My role is to decide whether CDF have acted fairly and reasonably  in their response to 
Mr Bs S75 claim and complaint. In deciding  whats  fair and reasonable, Im required to take 
into account  amongst  other things  what the law says. Here, that is S75 and the 
Limitation Act 1980. 
The general effect of S75 is that if a consumer has paid for goods or services through an 
associated credit agreement and they have  a claim against the supplier of those goods or 
services for misrepresentation or breach  of contract, they are given a like claim  against  the 
credit provider. 
Mr B raised his claim  over ten years after enrolling on the course and a little over seven 
years after he stopped accessing  the course.  He says he always  intended  to finish the 
course as it was open-ended, but his life circumstances had changed meaning he had to put 
his studies on hold.  He says he only complained in late 2018 when his friend told him that S 
had been reported to have misled people about  course accreditation. Hes said he can also 
now no longer  complete  the course  because the training provider isnt trading anymore. 
CDF says any claim Mr B might have  against S (and by extension  CDF)  would be time-
barred by the Limitation Act. For this reason, it said Mr B doesnt have any like claim against 
CDF and it declined  his claim on this basis. Ive thought carefully about everything both 
parties have said and submitted, having  done  so, I dont think CDF acted unfairly in declining 
Mr Bs S75 claim. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN19580842Mr B has argued there has been both a breach of contract and a misrepresentation. Ill deal 
with each of these issues in turn. 
It does appear the course provider is no longer trading and therefore it might  not be possible 
for Mr B to now complete the course.  CDF has said Mr B only had three years within which 
to complete the course so there  hasnt been any breach of contract as the course was 
available during that time. However, from everything  Ive seen, it appears there was no time 
limit to complete the course.
Both Mr B and CDF have provided  evidence  which  suggests the course could be completed  
at the learners own pace and that there werent  any time restrictions.  However,  I can see 
the course provider  did suggest that an average  completion time might be as long as three 
years. 
CDF has said the Limitation Act would time-bar any breach of contract claim Mr B may have 
had against S, or CDF. While it is ultimately for the courts to decide that issue,  I do need to 
take into account what the law says. It appears  that its more  likely than not that any claim for 
breach of contract Mr B might have  had would be brought to late. This is because  it seems 
Mr B had six years from the date he entered into the contract to raise any claim. On that 
basis, I dont think CDF acted unfairly  in declining his S75 claim for breach of contract. 
Regarding Mr Bs claim for misrepresentation, the Limitation  Act might allow  additional time 
in certain circumstances for Mr B to raise  a claim more than six years  after entering into the 
contract. Again, this would  be for a court to consider  and decide upon.  However,  in any 
event, I dont think its particularly relevant  for me to decide whether or not Mr Bs claim for a 
misrepresentation would be time-barred. 
I say this because  Im not persuaded  that Mr B has demonstrated that there has been  a 
misrepresentation for which  CDF might be liable for. He says he was assured the course 
was accredited and it was this assurance  that persuaded him to enrol.  Hes told us that he 
later discovered the course wasnt accredited. 
CDF has provided us with evidence  to show that the course was accredited at around the 
time Mr B enrolled. While its not clear if this accreditation  continued to when  Mr B enrolled, 
Mr B hasnt provided anything persuasive  to demonstrate that it wasnt. Hes referred to 
media reports about S which  say they misled  people about accreditation. But these reports 
were several years  after he enrolled  on the course.  Further, the specific  accreditation Mr B 
has referred to as being misrepresented wasnt relevant  to the course  hed opted to enrol  on. 
While its possible  S misrepresented some course accreditations, I havent seen anything to 
demonstrate it did so in relation to the specific course Mr S enrolled on. 
Overall, Im not persuaded its more  likely  than not that S misrepresented this specific  course 
to Mr B. For that reason, I dont think CDF acted unfairly in declining his S75 claim for 
misrepresentation. 
CDF didnt respond to my provisional  decision and Mr B didnt agree with it. In summary he 
said:
The course had no time restriction for completion, as it can no longer be completed 
there has been a breach of contract.  
Ref: DRN19580843He saw S advert on television and this prompted him to enrol on the course, the 
same assertions were  made by the representative  that visited  his home. Those  
adverts were found to be in breach of broadcasting rules by the relevant regulator.  
Mr B provided evidence of the ruling  made by the regulator. 
CDF and S shared a mutual owner which  is a conflict of interest  when carrying  out 
due diligence  prior to funding the course.  This is why CDF should be responsible  for 
misrepresentations made  by S. 
Trading Standards ruled against  S that it had breached parts  of The Consumer 
Protection of Unfair Trading Regulations  2008. 
S was mentioned  in a television investigation  which found  it had made inaccurate 
statements about its accreditations, this concerned the time period when Mr B 
enrolled on the course. 
As it is for the court  to decide  on the time limits in the Limitation Act I should ignore it 
and focus on the S75 claim and the clear evidence of breach of contract  and 
misrepresentation by S. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision,  and for the same reasons.  However,  Ill 
address the additional comments and evidence Mr B has provided. 
Mr B has suggested that I shouldnt  concern  myself with the time limits in the Limitation Act 
because Ive said it is for a court to decide on the relevant  time limits.  However, it is also for 
the court to decide liability under S75 and Im required to take account of the law when  
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
Mr B hasnt persuaded me why it would be reasonable  for me to depart from what is set out 
in the Limitation Act, or that my interpretation of it was incorrect. In any event, Im satisfied 
that its appropriate for me to take into account what  the Limitation Act says when deciding 
whats fair in the circumstances  of this case. This is because the time limits are central to the 
argument being made by CDF as to why it doesnt think it has liability under S75. 
As set out in my provisional  decision, I dont think its likely  Mr B would be able to bring a 
successful claim  for breach of contract against  CDF due to the time limits within the 
Limitation Act. Even if Im wrong about  this, its been  over ten years  since Mr B last 
accessed the course, so Im not persuaded it would now be fair and reasonable for CDF to 
make the course  available for Mr B. 
I say this because  while it is suggested  the course can be completed at the learners own 
pace, I dont think this means Mr B can effectively take an indefinite period of time to 
complete it. The course material and terms and conditions all point to the longest reasonable 
time period for completion to be around three years. The nature of the course  Mr B entered  
into is such that the course material would now be significantly out of date (as around 12 
years have passed)  and of little practical  use if he were to now attempt to complete it. But I 
dont think this was because of anything S did wrong, it was because  Mr B chose not to 
complete his studies  at the time.
Mr Bs main concern appears to be that the course  was misrepresented to him. He has 
provided evidence  from several different sources which he says demonstrates  there was a 
misrepresentation by S. But Im not persuaded, on balance,  that there was. 
Ref: DRN19580844The ruling by the advertising  regulator concerned statements S made  about  potential salary 
ranges that could  be earned on successful completion of the course. This wasnt  something 
Mr B had focused on in his complaints  to CDF. The crux of his complaint has been that the 
course was advertised  as being accredited by a specific body, which he later says he 
discovered not to be true. So, I dont think this particular  ruling  supports the point Mr B has 
made. 
Mr B says Trading Standards ruled  S was in breach of consumer protection legislation.  But 
the evidence Mr B has provided  doesnt show that. It shows  that a complaint was raised with 
Trading Standards in 2008 by a member  of the public and it investigated those individual  
concerns. But Ive not seen anything to show that Trading  Standards  took any general  action 
against S, or that this one complaint it looked at related  to the specific course Mr B enrolled 
on. 
Mr B says CDF and S shared the same  owner which is a conflict of interest  and he says this 
shows there was likely to be a lack of due diligence from CDF. He says on this basis CDF 
should be liable for misrepresentations by S. But CDF is already potentially equally liable for 
misrepresentation by S due to S75. So I dont think the ownership structure of CDF and S 
makes any material difference here.   
Lastly, Mr B has provided information from a television investigation into S which does set 
out that S wasnt  accredited by the specific provider relevant to the course Mr B enrolled on. 
However, the evidence  CDF have provided show that Mr Bs course was contracted out by S 
to a different  college, which was accredited by that particular provider. So, while  I accept it 
does appear S was making statements it was accredited when it wasnt, it seems  Mr Bs 
course was properly accredited because the course was outsourced to a college that did 
have that accreditation.  It therefore seems that the course was likely to be accredited,  even if 
S itself wasnt.
I note that the evidence  CDF has provided  doesnt  explicitly state it covers the timeframe of 
when Mr B enrolled on the course (this is because the contract with the college is signed 
prior to Mr B enrolling on the course  and it doesnt  have  an end date), but neither does 
Mr Bs evidence  cover that time period either.  
Taking everything into account,  Im not persuaded, on balance, that the specific course Mr B 
enrolled on wasnt properly accredited  and for that reason I dont think there  was a 
misrepresentation. For these reasons, I dont think CDF acted unfairly in not providing him 
with a refund.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1958084