K822xcomplaint
Mr G has complained about advice he received from Portafina  LLP to transfer a defined 
benefit occupational pension scheme  (OPS) he held with his former employer to a Self- 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  The funds within the SIPP  were then used to invest  in 
several unregulated  collective investment  schemes  (UCIS).
Mr G is being represented by a third party  but for ease of reading  the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr G.
background
I issued my provisional decision upholding this complaint  in December 2020. A copy is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In summary, I concluded that:  
Portafina needed to have an awareness of the intended investments in order to give 
suitable advice,  even though it wasnt specifically intending to advise on the investments. 
I thought the regulator had made this position clear in its January 2013 alert.  And I 
thought that in any event, the alert was relevant to firms in the position of Portafina  in this 
case. The alert indicated such firms should  not be giving  advice  on a restricted basis. It 
didnt consider a firm could reasonably separate out the two elements of the transaction;  
its advice on the suitability of the transfer should include consideration of the suitability of 
the underlying  investments.
The compliance and due diligence checks that Portafina  had conducted at the outset of 
its relationship with Firm C, didnt negate the need for reasonable and ongoing due 
diligence, particularly  where it had agreed to an ongoing relationship  with an introducer  
in the position of Firm C.
Portafina had failed to take adequate  steps to consider  the investment proposition for 
Mr G as a whole  when  assessing  the suitability of the proposed transfer  away from his 
OPS. I thought that if the appropriate steps had been taken to ask Firm C for its 
investment proposition,  Portafina wouldve seen that the proposed investments were 
unsuitable for Mr G and the recommendation to transfer his pension on that basis 
wouldnt have been given.
The pension transfer value analysis report (TVAS) showed that a critical yield of 8.1% pa 
was required to match benefits  from the OPS.  But this made  no allowance  for advice, 
plan charges or other  ongoing charges, which  meant the growth  required to match  the 
benefits being given up was understated. And even if the SIPP  had achieved the 
regulators highest rate of assumed  future growth, which at that time was 8%, it was 
unlikely Mr G would receive a materially higher pension  at retirement as a result  of 
transferring. This was supported  in Portafinas own suitability report where it estimated 
that, based on Mr Gs attitude  to risk, his personal pension  would  grow  at a rate of 
6.13%.
It couldnt be said with certainty  that Mr G would definitely take his benefits via income  
drawdown. So, I thought it was unreasonable for Portafina  to have used the life time 
hurdle rate when comparing the OPS  benefits with the SIPP. I was satisfied that the 
appropriate growth rate to use was the critical yield figure of 8.1%.
Ref: DRN13771522If Portafina had given Mr G suitable advice (that he would be better off with his OPS) he 
wouldnt have transferred away from that scheme. And if Portafina had clarified the 
situation regarding  his employers scheme  as well as clearly outlining what  he stood to 
lose by transferring away from that scheme, I didnt think it likely that Mr G wouldve 
gone against that advice.
The advice to transfer was unsuitable  and I was satisfied that the losses suffered by 
Mr G were as a result of Portafinas  inappropriate advice to Mr G to transfer his OPS to a 
SIPP. And had it not been for this unsuitable  advice, Mr G wouldnt have been in a 
position to invest  as he did through Firm C. Because of this I thought  Portafina was 
wholly responsible  for Mr Gs resulting losses. 
I wasnt asking Portafina  to account  for loss that goes beyond  the consequences of its 
failings. I was satisfied  those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. 
But I recognised  that Firm Cs actions  may also have contributed  to Mr Gs loss. So, Id 
considered whether  I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating 
the loss to Portafina. But in the circumstances, I thought it was fair to make an award  for 
the whole  loss against Portafina.  I said this because Id taken account of the fact that 
Firm C is now in liquidation and in turn any claim against that firm would need to be 
considered by the FSCS. As a scheme of last resort, I thought it was possible the FSCS 
wouldnt pay out if a third party could also be held liable.  Which  meant  that an 
apportionment of only part of the loss to Portafina  could risk leaving Mr G out of pocket.
Mr G responded to my provisional decision and confirmed that he accepts my provisional 
findings.   
Portafina responded and confirmed that it didnt accept  my provisional  findings. Its provided 
detailed reasons for disagreeing.  Ive set out the main reasons below. 
Obligation to advise  on underlying investments
Portafina considers  that the regulators alert of 18 January 2013 has been taken out of 
context.  It believes paragraph  2 of the alert makes it clear that it was for a specific context 
where members of the public sought  to move their pension funds into high risk unregulated 
products that had been marketed by unregulated  introducers. This was not the basis  on 
which Mr G was introduced to Portafina.  Firm C was an appointed  representative  (AR)  of 
Firm S, which  was authorised  to provide  investment  advice.  
Portafina  says  Firm C recommended  investments  only after it had advised  on the 
transfer,  which  was based  on a suggested  investment  portfolio  in line with Mr Gs risk 
profile.  Portafina  therefore  considers  that the circumstances  of the complaint  were  not 
those  at which  the regulators  alert was aimed.
It says its a fundamental principle of the financial services regulatory regime that one 
regulated firm is entitled to reasonably rely upon advice and information provided by another  
regulated entity.  At the date of the alert, COBS 2.4.6R(2) provided that a firm would be taken 
"to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that requires it to obtain information  to 
the extent it can show  it was reasonable for it to rely on information provided  to it in writing  
by another person.
Ref: DRN13771523Where that other person  was authorised,  Portafina says that COBS  2.4.8G  advised  that 
such reliance would  be reasonable  unless  the firm in question  was "aware  or ought  
reasonably  to be aware  of any fact that would  give reasonable  grounds  to question  the 
accuracy  of that information . Portafina  considers  this principle applies not only to 
information specifically  given in relation to Mr G, but also about Firm S and Firm Cs 
approach to investment advice generally. 
Portafina was assured  that neither firm recommended nor otherwise promoted UCIS  but 
rather invested into risk-graded cash, equities and bonds. So, it considers the provisional 
findings are wrong  to conclude that Portafina was not entitled to rely upon those assurances 
in advising on Mr G's pension transfer. 
As matters stood at the time of Mr G's transaction, the rules ensured  that the regulator had 
clarity on the scope  of each firm's role in a transaction so as to be able to clearly apportion 
liability in the event of enforcement action. Further, Portafina says it served  to define 
regulated firms' foreseeable liabilities for the purposes of Principle 4 (adequate resources) 
and COND 2.4 (appropriate  resources), as well as more general considerations of liquidity, 
compliance and risk management.  To require otherwise would mean that one regulated firm 
could be arbitrarily and unexpectedly held liable for the failings  of another  regulated firm. 
Portafina says that the provisional  decision criticises its suitability report  on the basis that the 
table in the section headed  "Your Funds  Recommendation" was blank. However, this is 
incorrect. The report expressly  stated:  "we would recommend  that you invest in the following 
asset classes, however,  Firm C will contact you in due course to discuss  the actual  fund 
investment portfolio. Immediately thereunder  the Asset allocation table suggested a split 
between Cash (10%),  Equities (60%),  Other fixed interest (12%)  and Structured  secured  
bonds  (18%).  So it did set out Portafina's  expectations  as to the types  and blend  of 
investments  to be recommended  by Firm C. That being  so, Mr G couldve  questioned  
the discrepancy  between  Portafina's  expectations  and the actual  recommendations  
made  by Firm C. It was not part of Portafina's  role to second  guess  recommendations  
(yet to be) made  by Firm C as part of its distinct  obligations  to Mr G, still less to police  
the investments  eventually  made.
Portafinas  advice  on the pension  transfer
Its Portafinas  view that any recommendation  it makes  must  be based  on the most  likely  
future  circumstances  of a client.  It says  its unrealistic  to suggest  that a firm should  only 
make  a recommendation  if certain  of a client's  future  behaviour. 
At the relevant  time,  COBS  1 9.1.2R(2) permitted  Portafina  to apply  "reasonable  
assumptions" when comparing the benefits of Mr G's existing OPS  and proposed SIPP. So, 
it believes it was reasonable to make  a recommendation  to Mr G based  upon the lifetime 
hurdle rate. The differences between an annuity  and income  drawdown, and the lifetime 
hurdle rate and critical yield, were explained to Mr G during the fact-find call on 21 October 
2014. Portafina doesnt accept that he didnt understand those explanations. And a clear  
written explanation was subsequently provided  within the suitability  report, along with a 
further explanation of risks. It was recorded  that Mr G had said flexibility  was important  and 
that there  was a strong  possibility  that hed utilise  the drawdown  option  at least  in the 
early  years  of retirement.  Having  received  that information,  Mr G didnt  raise  any further  
queries  or questions  so it must  be assumed  that he accepted  the recommendations  
made  and understood  the basis  for them.  
Ref: DRN13771524In addition  to the reasons  set out in the suitability  report,  Portafina  considers  that it was 
"reasonable"  to proceed  on the basis  of the lifetime  hurdle  rate in light of the statistical  
probability  that Mr G would  draw  on his pension  by income  drawdown.  The FCA's  'Data  
Bulletin'  from September  2018  (Issue  14) confirmed  that between  April 2015  and March  
2018  new income  drawdown  policies  outnumbered  annuities  by 435,769  to 186,818.  
Accordingly, Portafina applied reasonable assumptions when making its comparison under 
COBS 19.1.2R, both in light of the information provided by Mr G and market trends at 
around that time.
Portafina further noted that the provisional  decision relied on a number of other factors  to 
suggest that the pension transfer  advice was wrong  irrespective of the 'critical  yield' issue . 
In Portafinas view all of the factors identified are only relevant by virtue of the high risk 
investments, which were  ultimately recommended to Mr G by Firm C. Portafina  had no 
obligation to investigate or second-guess Firm Cs advice and no reason to think  that high-
risk investments would be recommended to Mr G. Consequently, in light of the information 
obtained Mr G's fact-find call, there  was no reason  to think that the pension transfer would 
not be appropriate for him.
In any event,  Portafina's  "Adviser  Sign Off'' sheet,  which  was completed  following  the 
fact finding  call noted  that Mr G:
Considered access  to his tax free cash and flexibility  in his pension  arrangements  as 
"Important";
Had strong concerns  about his existing OPS but was only willing  to take a "Minimal 
Reduction" in his pension  to take control;
Could  only accept  "Minimal loss" (around 10%) and was primarily interested in 
"Liquid" investments, however he was not interested in exploring "investment 
strategies that limit volatility risk";
Did not want  an annuity;
Had other provisions for retirement by way of state pension, a second private 
pension, property and savings;
Had received the appropriate explanation  as to the loss of guarantees  associated  
with moving from an OPS to a SIPP.
Understood the lifetime hurdle  rate.
Its Portafinas view that this demonstrates that all proper enquiries were made as to Mr G's 
financial circumstances in order to enable it to make an appropriate recommendation in 
accordance with the requirements of COBS  19.1.2R. In doing  so, it considered Mr G's 
"relevant circumstances"  (for the purposes of COBS 19.1.3G(1)) and his "attitude to risk" (for 
the purposes of COBS  19.1.7G).  Thereafter,  the suitability report  set out clear advice and 
information as to the comparative costs and benefits  of moving from the OPS  to the SIPP  as 
required by COBS 19.1.7AG and 19.1.8G. Its a fundamental  principle  of the financial  
services  regulatory  regime  that the consumer  must  take responsibility  for his/her  
investment  decisions.  The fact that a recommendation  was made,  did not remove  
Mr G's responsibility  to carefully  consider  whether  he wished  to proceed  in light of the 
totality  of information  provided.
Ref: DRN13771525Redress
Portafina  cant  be "wholly  responsible"  for Mr G's losses  insofar  as the provisional  
decision  also recognises  that Firm Cs actions  "contributed"  to his loss.  Those  
conclusions  are clearly  inconsistent.  Therefore,  in the event  the complaint  is upheld,  
Portafina  considers  the proposed  approach  to apportionment  of liability  to be wrong  in 
principle.
On the basis that the ombudsman considers Firm C is also at least  partly  responsible for 
Mr G's losses, it would  be fair and reasonable to reduce Portafina's liability accordingly.  This 
approach would be in line with the longstanding approach at common  law and, notably, the 
provisional decision identifies no good  reason to depart from it.
The suggestion that Portafina  should  be wholly liable  simply because both Firm S and Firm 
C are no longer trading is wrong  for a number  of reasons:
Such  an approach  requires  Portafina  to face liability  for a proportion  of the loss 
for which,  on any view,  it was not responsible.  Firm S and Firm C made  repeated  
assurances  (on which  Portafina  was entitled  to rely for the reasons  set out 
above)  as to the nature  of the investments  recommended.  Those  formed  the 
basis  of the suitability  report  and Portafina  therefore  made  recommendations  on 
the pension  transfer  accordingly.  In the circumstances,  there  is no proper  basis  
to require  Portafina  to bear responsibility  for those  losses  resulting  from Firm C's 
bad advice;
The suggestion  that Portafina  should  be held wholly  responsible  simply  because  
Firm C has now been  liquidated  is wrong  in principle.  In effect,  it means  that one 
regulated  firm which  has successfully  continued  trading  is required  to underwrite  
the wrongdoing  of one or more  other  regulated  firms  involved  in a transaction.  
Such  an approach  fundamentally  undermines  common  law principles  of 
causation  and loss and runs contrary  to the relevant  regulatory  framework.  
Parliament  expressly  provided  for the creation  of the Financial  Services  
Compensation  Scheme  ("FSCS")  to compensate  consumers  who have  claims  
against  firms  that "are unable,  or likely  to be unable,  to satisfy  claims  against  
them"  (s. 213(1)(a)  FSMA);
The provisional decision fundamentally undermines that statutory scheme, on the 
basis that it's possible the FSCS  won't pay out. But no evidence  or further 
explanation has been provided to support this suggestion. Portafina assumes that 
that is because  there  is no basis on which to do so. Similarly to the Ombudsman 
Service, the FSCS has a clear statutory remit and is obliged to consider claims made 
to it insofar as they fall within its jurisdiction. Where it is required to pay 
compensation pursuant to the relevant Handbook rules, it will do so. If it improperly 
declines a claim,  the decision  can be challenged by way of judicial review. 
Accordingly, if the FSCS were to decline a claim against Firm C, that will be because 
it is properly entitled to do so. Thus, the effect  of the approach  in the provisional 
decision is that Portafina is required to provide Mr G with an indemnity even beyond 
that of the statutory  compensation  scheme.  
Portafina considers  the approach entirely  arbitrary  and says  it cant  be justified on any 
grounds  as "fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances".  
Ref: DRN13771526my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing this, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. Having done 
so, I remain of the view that the fair and reasonable outcome is that the complaint should  be 
upheld. Ill explain why.
Portafina has raised many points  in support of why it disagrees the complaint should be 
upheld, many of which  have already been addressed  in my provisional decision, which forms 
part of this final decision. I want to assure  Portafina that, while  Ive considered  everything its 
submitted, I dont intend to respond to each point individually  where those points have 
already been addressed and new points have not been made. 
Obligation to advise  on underlying investments
Portafina believes that Ive taken the regulators alert from January 2013  out of context. It 
considers it was only applicable when  an unregulated introducer  was involved in the 
transaction.  
I envisaged that Portafina would raise this as a concern, so I did acknowledge the difference  
in scenarios in my provisional findings and I also set out detailed reasons explaining why I 
thought the alert was also aimed  at firms  in the position of Portafina. 
My position  on this is further  supported  by a subsequent alert issued  by the regulator on 
28 April 2014 regarding  pension  transfers  and switches. Again, this alert didnt follow  the 
introduction of new regulations but restated the existing  position. The regulator  said it was 
alerting firms to our requirements  when they give advice on self-invested personal  pensions 
(SIPPS), giving our view and key messages. It included the following: Where  a financial 
adviser recommends  a SIPP  knowing  that the customer  will transfer  or switch  from a current 
pension arrangement to release funds to invest through  a SIPP, then the suitability of the 
underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying  
investment is not suitable for the customer,  then the overall advice is not suitable. If a firm 
does not fully understand the underlying  investment proposition intended to be held within  a 
SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch  at all as it will not be 
able to assess suitability  of the transaction  as a whole. 
The alert went on to reiterate that suitable advice generally required consideration of the 
overall transaction, that is the vehicle, the wrapper  and the expected  underlying investments 
and whether or not such investments were regulated products. It said, despite the initial alert 
(in January 2013), some  firms continued to adopt  a model which  purportedly  restricted 
advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. But advising on the suitability of a pension transfer 
or switch  couldnt reasonably be done without considering the existing pension  arrangement  
and the underlying investments intended to be held in the SIPP. 
Ref: DRN13771527Crucially, there is nothing in this alert to suggest that it only applies when a firm is giving 
advice where an unregulated introducer  is involved. So, Im satisfied that, even if the 
investment advice to Mr G was being  provided by another  regulated  firm, Portafina was 
reasonably required  to consider the proposed underlying investments before advising on the 
transfer. Im conscious that both the 2013  and 2014  alerts were issued prior to Mr G 
receiving advice and so Portafina  ought  to have known that it needed to do this. As I have  
previously acknowledged,  the alert does not have the status of a Handbook rule as such, 
nonetheless I consider  it to be a relevant indicator of the standards  expected by the regulator 
in these circumstances, as well as a helpful  indicator  of what good industry practice  looked  
like at the time.  
Portafina has said that it was only after it gave advice that Firm C recommended  the 
investments and that therefore the responsibility for the advice lies only with Firm C.  
However, the alert makes it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on a pension transfer 
needs to be aware  of the intended  investments  before it advises on the transfer, in order  to 
provide suitable  advice.  So, it shouldve  requested  this information from Firm C before 
providing advice.  And, as confirmed in the alert,  if it didnt  fully understand the underlying  
investment proposition intended to be held within  a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on 
the pension transfer or switch at all. 
I appreciate the regulators  rules  allow for situations  where two regulated  firms are involved.  
In particular, Portafina has referenced: 
COBS 2.4.6R(2). 
A firm will be taken to be in compliance  with any rule in this sourcebook that requires 
it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by another person.
COBS 2.4.8G
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance  with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a 
firm to rely on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected 
authorised person or a professional firm, unless it is aware or ought  
reasonably to be aware of any fact that would give reasonable  grounds to 
question the accuracy  of that information.
These rules  essentially mean  that a firm can rely on information provided to it by 
another regulated firm, where it is reasonable to do so. The rule is stated to apply 
to situations where  a firm is required by a handbook  rule to obtain the information in 
question from another  person.  Portafina says it was therefore entitled to rely on 
information given  to it by Firm C at the outset of their relationship in which Firm C 
confirmed it would not recommend or otherwise promote UCIS and that it would  
instead invest in risk-graded cash, equities and bonds. 
Whilst I note that COBS 2.4.6R(2) is unlikely to apply in these circumstances (as 
we are not concerned with a situation in which Portafina was required by a 
handbook rule as such  to obtain the information it received from Firm C), I 
nonetheless agree with Portafina that, in the absence of any evidence to the 
contrary, it was entitled  to take that information  from Firm C at face value.  It was 
reasonably entitled to rely on that statement, as far is it went .  
Ref: DRN13771528The difficulty  for Portafina is that the statement did not tell it anything meaningful 
about the intended investment proposition for Mr G.  No  information at all regarding  
the proposed  investments for Mr G was passed on to Portafina by Firm C. Instead, 
Portafina chose  to rely on a general statement, given two years previously,  that 
said recommendations of broad categories of investments, with potentially broad 
gradings of risk, might or might  not be made in a given case and that UCIS would 
not be recommended. I dont think that was a reasonable basis  on which  Portafina  
should have assessed the suitability of the pension transfer for Mr G.  
Mr G was one of many clients that Firm C referred to Portafina  for pension transfer 
advice. Portafina  indicates that roughly two to three cases a month  were  intended  
to be referred to it by Firm C over the course  of a year.  And  as I said in my 
provisional findings, it seems the confirmation that Firm C wouldnt be 
recommending UCIS came from a compliance  health check  that was completed 
prior to Firm C approaching Portafina  in late 2013.  Ive not been provided with any 
information to demonstrate that Portafina  checked  this was still the position when it 
was making other enquiries with Firm C. I think it was important that this was 
confirmed. But in any event, as Ive explained  above, because Portafina  needed  to 
consider the proposed investment for Mr G  and it didnt do this - I dont think it did 
enough to assess  the overall suitability of the advice given to Mr G. 
This doesnt mean that Im holding Portafina  responsible for the failings of another 
regulated firm, as it has said in its submissions. Ive focused on Portafinas own 
responsibilities as the business involved with the capacity to unlock the funds held 
in Mr Gs OPS.  Theres no dispute  that Portafina  gave  that advice and that it 
incorrectly thought  it could limit its advice to the transfer without  seeking  
information about the investments Firm C intended  and eventually  arranged for 
Mr G. 
I acknowledged in my provisional  findings that Portafinas suitability report  for Mr G outlined  
its recommendations  based on a model  portfolio for an investor with Mr Gs risk profile. 
However, I incorrectly stated that the table had been  left blank. The table was in fact 
completed showing a suggested spread of investments as follows: 
Cash (10%), 
Equities (60%)
Other fixed  interest (2%); and 
structured secured bonds (18%).  
This doesnt alter my decision; I still think Portafina  needed to do more  to satisfy itself that its 
recommendation was based on the expected investment proposition  that Firm C intended for 
Mr G. It needed,  at the very least,  to ask Firm C for an outline  of that proposition.  
Portafina says the asset allocation table outlined its expectations as to the types and blend 
of investments to be recommended by Firm C, and says it enabled Mr G to question any 
discrepancy between  its expectations and the actual recommendations made by firm C.  It 
said it was no part of its role to second  guess  recommendations (yet to be made) by Firm C 
or to police the investments ultimately made.  
I dont agree with Portafina.  It is clear that Firm C and Portafina had come to an agreement  
about their working  relationship.  Firm C did not have the required regulatory  authorisations 
to give pension transfer advice whereas Portafina  did, and an agreement  to work together  
Ref: DRN13771529for pension-release clients came about.   Portafina has stressed it had never before agreed 
to work with another authorised firm, as the processes and controls  required to set up the 
relationship would be disproportionate  to the level of business  it might bring about.  
However, an exception  was made for Firm C, as it had proposed  to send  significant  levels  of 
business to Portafina (two to three cases a month for a year).   
In those circumstances it seems to me that Portafina needed to do more to ensure that the 
two firms worked together to give suitable  pension  transfer advice to clients.  Aside from the 
initial due diligence  checks  carried out in 2013  at the outset of the relationship, I have not 
seen any evidence that further  checks were  made  by Portafina to satisfy itself that the 
pension transfer  advice it was giving to clients was aligned with the investment advice they 
were receiving from firm C.  The need  to do so was, as I say, a necessary part of the 
suitability assessment carried out by Portafina on a case by case basis for individual  clients.   
But it was also, in my view, a reasonable due diligence requirement brought  about  by the 
ongoing relationship itself,  so that any patterns of unsuitable or unaligned advice could be 
identified and addressed.  
I dont agree that this requires Portafina to police  the activities of firm C, but it does require 
Portafina to take reasonable  steps to ensure that both firms were acting, together, in their 
clients best interests.  
With that in mind, I dont  agree that it was sufficient for Portafina simply to recommend a 
broad spread of investments in its suitability report for Mr G in the expectation that that 
would bring about the necessary alignment with Firm Cs investment recommendations.  
Further, I do not agree that broad references to investment  classes,  (such as equities and 
other fixed interest), would give consumers in the position of Mr G sufficient information  to 
enable them to spot discrepancies.  As  things  transpired for Mr G, and in the absence of any 
further checks by Portafina, the investments he was eventually advised to purchase were 
significantly removed from the investments  Portafina contemplated when it advised him to 
transfer away from his DB scheme  in the first place.  
Further, I should add that even if I was satisfied Portafina could adequately assess  the 
suitability of the transfer by merely  recommending potential investments into broad asset 
classes, with no further steps taken to align its advice with Firm Cs recommendations, I dont 
think the asset allocation set out in the table would in any event have been suitable  for Mr G. 
I say this because  the model portfolio suggested  that 18% of the pension fund should  be 
invested in secure  structured bonds . These are described in the suitability report as asset  
back debt securities that are issued for a fix term. The report goes on to explain that these 
are not covered by the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme (FSCS).  And that there  
are credit risks - due to the possibility  of the company  borrowing the money going into 
default - and liquidity  risks. In my view,  this puts them at the higher end of the risk spectrum  
and would generally mean that theyre unsuitable for an inexperienced investor,  with a fairly 
modest pension fund. So, Im not satisfied that a portfolio that wouldve invested 18% of 
Mr Gs pension fund in unregulated and potentially  illiquid funds, wouldve been  suitable for a 
client in Mr Gs position in any event. 
Portafinas  advice  on the pension  transfer
Much  of what  Portafina  has said regarding  the suitability  of the transfer  isnt new and 
has already  been  addressed  in my provisional  findings.  I appreciate  Portafina  doesnt  
agree  but I dont  see the benefit  in repeating  everything  I said in my provisional  findings  
Ref: DRN137715210here.  Instead  Ive focussed  on what  I consider  to be Portafinas  main  points  regarding  
suitability,  as well as any new points  they have  raised.  
Portafina  maintains  that it was appropriate  for it to base  its suitability  assessment  on the 
assumption  that Mr G would  opt to take his pension  benefits  via income  drawdown,  
when  he retired.  So, it believes  the life time hurdle  rate, set out in the transfer  value  
analysis  report  (TVAS),  is the appropriate  measure  for assessing  whether  the transfer  
was financially  viable.  Portafina  believes  that this was a reasonable  assumption  to 
make,  which  COBS  19.1.2R(2)  permitted  when  comparing  the benefits  of the OPS  with 
the proposed  SIPP.  
In support  of this assumption,  Portafina  has referenced  an FCA Data  Bulletin  from 
September  2018  which  focused  on the latest  trends  in the retirement  income  market.  
I have  carefully  read this bulletin,  which  highlights  that between  2015  (when  the pension  
freedoms  legislation  was introduced)  and 2018,  there  was an increase  in consumers  
accessing  their pension  pots via income  drawdown.  Only  13% of the pension  pots 
accessed  during  this time were  used  to purchase  annuities.  However,  I should  point  out 
that this figure  was much  higher  when  the pension  pot had guarantees;  almost  40% of 
pensions  pots with guarantees  attached  were  used  to purchase  annuities.  And 60% of 
the pension  pots going  into drawdown,  were  used  solely  to access  tax free cash;  no 
income  had been  taken.  So, the number  of those  pots that are ultimately  used  to secure  
a guaranteed  income  is unknown.  As such,  even  if I was satisfied  that it would  be 
appropriate  to assess  the advice  provided  to Mr G based  on market  trends  - which  Im 
not - I dont  think  the bulletin  supports  Portafinas  argument.   
Im also conscious  this data bulletin  relates  solely  to defined  contribution  plans,  which  
(unless  there  are guarantees  built in) are subject  to current  annuity  rates.  Current  
annuity  rates  (the rate that determines  the amount of regular income an individual will get in 
return for their pension pot) have  fallen  in recent  years.  And so this may explain  the 
reduction  in the number  of individuals  with defined  contribution  plans  using  their pension  
pots to purchase  an annuity.  However,  Mr Gs OPS  was a defined  benefit  plan.  This 
meant  that what  he wouldve  received  from his pension  was guaranteed,  based  on his 
final salary  and number  of years  service  within  the scheme,  and wasnt  dependent  on 
current  annuity  rates.  So any changes  in current  annuity  rates,  wouldnt  have  impacted  
what  he wouldve  received  from his plan.  So I dont  think  trends  in the defined  
contribution  market  apply  in Mr Gs case.  
Even  if it were  appropriate  for Portafina  to take account  of market  trends,  I dont  think  it 
reasonably  follows  that Mr G himself  was likely  to have  taken  his benefits  via income  
drawdown.   I agree  that Portafina  didnt  need  to be certain  of the course  Mr G might  
have  taken,  but Im not sure there  was a reasonable  basis  upon  which  Portafina  
assumed  he was more  likely  than not to have  taken  income  drawdown.   
I acknowledge  that when  asked  by the adviser  during  the fact finding  call if there  was 
any particular  reason  you think  you might  like to get an annuity  at some  point , Mr G 
said no, not really . And he also said hed like flexibility.   Its not unreasonable  that he 
said this, particularly  as just before  this the adviser  had said that even the Government 
dont think annuities are good value for money. But I think it ought  to have been explained 
that in this situation, flexibility  is of questionable benefit considering the guaranteed income 
that is being given up. 
Ref: DRN137715211I also note in the Planning Assumptions  section of the suitability report, under Attitude to 
drawdown/annuity, it was noted that it had been agreed with Mr G that it should be assumed 
he will maintain as much flexibility in his pension planning as possible. So Portafina said it 
had assumed that Mr G would utilise drawdown, at least in the early years  of his retirement. 
However, I dont agree  that ruling out an annuity  provided Mr G with as much  flexibility as 
possible; it ought to have  been assumed that there was a possibility Mr G may take an 
annuity at retirement  and Portafinas assessment of the benefits shouldve taken this into 
account, not ruled it out as it appears to have done.
Mr G wasnt  expecting  to receive  any additional  guaranteed  income  in retirement,  other  
than his state  pension.  So I dont  think  it was right to make  the assumption  that he 
would,  more  likely  than not, take his benefits  via drawdown  when  he retired.  I think  
Portafina  ought  to have  advised  him that, it would  be more  suitable  for Mr G to secure  a 
guaranteed  income,  particularly  as this pension  was to provide  the majority  of his 
retirement  income.  And so Portafina  shouldve  based  its comparison  of benefits  on the 
critical  yield  rather  than the life time hurdle  rate. Instead  it seems  to have  based  its 
recommendation  on the life time hurdle  rate because  this is what  made  the transfer  
appear  viable.  This is supported  by the advisers  comments  to Mr G during  the fact 
finding  call, when  he said this was the way they could match  the income you wouldve 
had from the final salary because if you buy an annuity the figures didnt come out as well. 
In any event,  I explained  in my provisional  findings  that I didnt  think  the regulator  
was satisfied that the life time hurdle rate was an appropriate comparator when 
comparing the OPS  benefits with the SIPP in cases where that rate fails to take proper 
account of the benefits  and options  available  under  the DB scheme  
(COBS19.1.3G(2)).   As I have  said,  the rate used  by Portafina  failed  to take proper  
account  of the benefits  offered  by the ceding  scheme,  such  as a 50% spouses 
pension which escalated  in retirement.   It failed to take account  of the advice and plan 
charges of the SIPP and the individual investments. And it appears to have been 
calculated on the basis of Mr G living to 83, not to age 90 as the adviser said.  All of this 
meant the hurdle rate of 2.79% used by Portafina was understated and therefore  wasnt  
a reasonable comparator in the circumstances.  
Further,  and as the regulator  has made  plain,  when  considering  whether  to make  a 
personal  recommendation  to transfer  away  from a DB scheme,  a firm should  not regard  
a rate of return  which  may replicate  the benefits  being  given  up from the defined  
benefits  pension  scheme  as sufficient  in itself  (COBS19.1.7B  G).  In light of that, I think  
its important  to emphasise  that the starting  point  for the transfer  advice  in this case  
ought  to have  been  that it was unsuitable  (COBS19.1.6G) . And Portafina  ought  to have  
made  Mr G aware  that it was in his best interest  to preserve  his OPS  benefits.  It didnt  
do that and it failed  to investigate  Mr Gs savings  and his other  pension,  as alternatives  
he had for raising  capital  to complete  his house  renovations.  
Mr G was seven  years  away  from retirement.  The OPS  offered  a guaranteed  income  
that hed receive  in retirement  that wasnt  subject  to risk or market  fluctuations.  Whilst 
there was some mention of the guaranteed nature of the OPS during  the call, there  was no 
context around this, nor was there  a discussion  about what this transfer would mean in terms 
of Mr Gs future security and what was being given up.  
Ive also given  careful  regard  to the suitability  report  and note that although  the report  
did mention  certain  benefits  that were  provided  by the OPS,  there  was little explanation  
or weight  given  to the extent  to which  those  benefits  would  be lost by transferring  away.   
Ref: DRN137715212Again,  the significance  of losing  the guaranteed  income  provided  by the OPS  was not 
given  the weight  I would  expect  to see in a suitability  report  in these  circumstances.  I 
can see that there  was a brief mention  in the conclusion  of the report  that a transfer  
would  mean  giving  up a guaranteed  pension,  but in my view this doesnt  give that 
outcome  the prominence  it requires,  nor does  it give Mr G a reasonable  explanation  of 
the impact  of losing  such  benefits  so close  to his own retirement.   
Mr G may have  said he understood  the difference  between  the critical  yield  and the life 
time hurdle  rate (although  for the reasons  set out in my provisional  findings,  I dont  think  
he necessarily  did). But Mr Gs objectives  and understanding  of matters  needed  to be 
weighed  up against  what  was suitable  advice.  The benefits Mr G had within  his OPS were 
guaranteed and would form a very significant part of his pension  income.  Therefore, the 
transfer represented a very significant  risk for him. And in his circumstances,  I dont  think  
giving  up a guaranteed  income  was in his best interests.  The fact that the suitability  
report  set out the advice,  and that Mr G may have  said he understood  the advice,  
doesnt  make  unsuitable  advice  suitable.   
Portafina  considers  that it complied  with its obligations  under  COBS  19.1 and made  an 
appropriate  recommendation.  But for the reasons  Ive explained,  I dont  think  it did. Mr G 
relied on Portafina to give suitable advice on whether to transfer his pension, and in doing  so 
it had an obligation  to act in his best interests. Had Portafina given suitable advice to Mr G, it 
would have advised against  transferring his pension.   Im satisfied that had it done  so, and 
explained and discussed in a balanced  way the disadvantages of transferring, the transfer 
wouldnt have gone ahead and Mr G wouldve retained his OPS benefits.
All in all, and as outlined above, it is my view that Portafina failed to put reasonable checks 
in place to ensure its transfer advice was aligned with the investment recommendations 
made by Firm C.  Further, even if I am wrong about that so that it was sufficient for Portafina  
to base its advice  only on the recommended spread of asset classes  it outlined  in its 
suitability report,  it is nonetheless my view that Portafinas transfer  advice was not suitable  in 
any event as Mr G wouldve been  better  off remaining in his OPS. 
 
Redress
Portafina disagrees that it can be held wholly responsible for the losses  Mr G has suffered 
as a result  of its unsuitable advice. And because  I acknowledged  in my provisional findings 
that Firm Cs actions contributed to his losses, it believes Im being inconsistent and that my 
approach to apportionment of liability is wrong  in principle. As such, it doesnt think my 
decision is fair and reasonable. 
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment.  Because Firm C wasnt  
authorised to advise  about the transfer  of deferred OPS  benefits, it referred Mr G to 
Portafina. Portafina advised Mr G to transfer  to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for 
the OPS to be transferred. I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr G to invest  a significant  
share of his SIPP funds  in UCIS.  But, as Ive explained, Portafinas  understanding that it 
could reasonably limit its advice to just the transfer  and the SIPP was wrong; it needed  to 
consider the proposed investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr G on the 
investments. It was only as a result of Portafinas  involvement that Mr G accessed the funds 
in his OPS. Portafinas  role was pivotal, since the eventual  investments were fully reliant on 
the transfer taking  place;  if Mr G hadnt transferred, he couldnt have invested as he did. 
Ref: DRN137715213Portafina says that Firm S and Firm C made  repeated  assurances  as to the nature  of the 
investments  recommended.  But, as Ive previously  explained,  its my understanding  that 
Portafina  relied  on information  set out in a compliance  health  check  that was completed  
some  time before  Firm C referred  Mr G to Portafina.  I think  Portafina  needed  to have  
confirmed  that this information  was still current  when  it was assessing  whether  to accept  
referrals  from Firm C. Portafina  hasnt  provided  any further  evidence  to suggest  it did 
this, and Ive not been  provided  with any evidence  of repeated  assurances  provided  by 
Firm S or Firm C. Ive further  found  that once  the business  relationship  commenced,  
Portafina  failed  to take adequate  steps  to liaise  with Firm C to ensure  that its transfer  
advice  was aligned  with the investment  advice  Firm C was giving  to clients,  and to 
monitor  the business  on an ongoing  basis,  so that any patterns  of unsuitable  advice  
might  be identified  and addressed.   In any event,  as was clearly  set out in the 
regulators  alerts  in both 2013  and 2014,  Portafina  couldnt  restrict  its advice  merely  to 
the transfer;  it had to consider  the proposed  investments  for Mr G, which  it didnt  do. 
As Ive said above,  Im also not satisfied  that the suggested  portfolio  that was set out in 
the suitability  report  was suitable  for Mr G. So, while  I accept  that Firm C might  also 
bear some  responsibility  for Mr Gs losses,  Im satisfied  that had it not been  for 
Portafinas  failings,  Mr G wouldnt  have  suffered  a loss at all.
In terms  of the FSCS,  I am aware  that, as a fund of last resort,  the FSCS  wont  pay out 
on claims  where  it is aware  that another  firm was involved  in the transaction,  and it 
considers  that firm might  also be responsible  for a consumers  losses.  I think  its 
important to point  out that Im not saying Portafina  is wholly responsible  for the losses simply 
because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation.  My starting point as to causation  is that 
Portafina gave  unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses  Mr G suffered in 
transferring to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind,  wrong  in law or 
irrational but reflects  the facts of the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position.  
Portafina couldve prevented the transfer  and the investments. Instead it facilitated  them,  
having given unsuitable advice to Mr G that he should transfer.  Mr G hasnt complained  
about Firm C or Firm S and in light of their liquidation, there  would be little point in him doing 
so.  He has complained  about Portafina  and because of what  I have  said,  it is, in my view, 
fair and reasonable that Portafina should  account  to him for the full extent of his losses.  
So, for the reasons  given,  I remain  of the view that Portafina  is responsible  for Mr Gs 
losses.  
Putting things  right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Portafina  must  therefore  undertake  a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:  Guidance for firms on how to calculate  
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The FCA has announced it intends  this month to update the inflation  assumptions used in 
this guidance.  This could  materially affect  the amount of compensation due. Portafina must 
therefore take into account any amendments  to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
Ref: DRN137715214This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance  of the decision.
If this is completed before  publication  of the FCAs intended amendments  to the guidance, 
Portafina must re-run  the calculation within a month of the amended  guidance being 
published  ensuring that any shortfall  this shows in the original calculation  is promptly  made 
up to Mr G. Portafina need only re-run the calculation once, to take account of amendments 
currently planned by the FCA. Portafina  does not subsequently  need  to recalculate following 
any further amendments  the regulator  might later make. 
Alternatively, Portafina may wait until publication  of the FCAs  amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mr G in 
this case.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Mr Gs contribution history to the State  Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  
adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact  of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be 
paid into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and 
any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could  have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have  been taxed according  to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 
15% overall  from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date 
Portafina receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest 
must be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the 
date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days,  that 
it takes Portafina to pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont  apply.
My aim is to return Mr G to the position he would have been in but for the actions of 
Portafina. This is complicated  where  investments are illiquid  (meaning  they cannot  be 
readily sold on the open market), as their value cant be determined. That appears  to be 
the case here.
Ref: DRN137715215To calculate the compensation, Portafina  should  agree an amount with the SIPP 
provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP  plus any costs, 
and take ownership  of the investment. If Portafina  is unable to buy the investment, it 
should give it a nil value  for the purposes  of calculating compensation. The value of the 
SIPP used  in the calculations should include  anything Portafina has paid into the SIPP  
and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr G to provide  an undertaking to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking 
should allow  for the effect of any tax and charges on what  he receives. Portafina will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.  If Portafina  asks Mr G to provide 
an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent  upon 
provision of that undertaking.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to 150,000, plus 
any interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed 150,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require  Portafina to pay Mr G the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps  above,  up to a maximum of 
150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed 150,000, I additionally require 
Portafina to pay Mr G any interest on that amount  in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  150,000, I can only require Portafina 
to pay Mr G any interest as set out above  on the sum of 150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount  exceeds 150,000, I also recommend 
that Portafina pays Mr G the balance. I additionally recommend any interest  calculated  
as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G accepts my final decision, the money  award is binding  on Portafina. My 
recommendation is not binding on Portafina. Further,  its unlikely that Mr G can accept 
my decision  and go to court to ask for the balance.  Mr G may want  to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Ref: DRN137715216my final decision
For the reason  explained, Im upholding this complaint and I intend to direct  
Portafina LLP to pay redress  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2021.
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN137715217Provisional decision dated 23 December 2020
complaint
Mr G has complained about  advice he received from Portafina LLP to transfer a defined benefit 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) he held with his former employer to a Self- Invested Personal  
Pension (SIPP).  The funds within the SIPP were then used to invest in several unregulated  collective  
investment schemes (UCIS).
Mr G is being  represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being  made by Mr G.
background
In 2014, Mr G was introduced to Portafina  after hed been in contact  with another business, from here 
on referred to as Firm C.
At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative  (AR) of a regulated business, Firm S. Firm S 
was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority to provide investment advice  but it wasnt 
permitted, nor was Firm C, to provide  pension transfer advice.
Portafina has explained that it was first approached by Firm C in late 2013.  As Firm C was 
proposing to refer a number of clients each month to Portafina for pension transfer advice, before 
agreeing to accept referrals, Portafina says that it carried out due diligence on a number of levels:
1.Checking Firm Ss authorisation and Firm Cs status  as its AR. These checks  led to Portafina  
concluding that Firm C was able to introduce clients for pension transfer advice and 
subsequently advise on investments. In doing so it was required  to follow  the regulators  rules. 
And Firm S was obliged to supervise and monitor Firm C. In addition,  these  clients would have 
the protection of the Ombudsman Service and the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS).
2.Public searches of the Financial Services Register, Google,  the press and published 
Financial Ombudsmans  Services decisions.  These searches revealed  no adverse 
information or disciplinary actions recorded against Firms S, Firm C or key individuals 
involved with the firms;  instead  the information  showed good  quality and compliant 
businesses.
3.Direct enquiries with Firm S and Firm C. Portafina says that during these  enquiries it was 
assured that Firm S maintained structured plans  for Firm Cs compliance  and training. The 
management of compliance was supplemented  by the use of external compliance support. 
Firm Cs advisers held the Statement  of Professional  Standing via the Chartered  Insurance  
Institute. Firm S had arrangements in place, explicitly  covering Firm C, for conflicts of 
interest. And a previous compliance  health  check that had been conducted by external  
consults said that neither Firm S nor Firm C recommended or promoted unregulated 
collected investments schemes.  From 2012  Firm C had being using  the Finametrica  risk 
profiling questionnaire  so it could  ensure its recommendations wouldnt exceed the clients  
attitude and capacity  for investment loss. It was assured that Firm C invested  clients 
portfolios into risk-graded  portfolios  of cash, equities and bonds.
Portafina has explained that referrals would be made if Firm C identified that a client had a defined  
benefit pension  with which they might have an objective or need. Portafina would complete  any 
information gathering and fact finding, before making a recommendation. If it considered  it might 
be suitable for the client to transfer their pension, it would issue a suitability  report. This report  
would include details of the high-level investment asset allocation that Portafina considered 
Ref: DRN137715218suitable for the client. Should the client wish to proceed, Portafina would complete the 
administration in respect  of the transfer and once the funds  had been  received by the new pension  
provider, they would be held 100% in cash. The agency for the new pension  plan would  then be 
changed to Firm C, who would give definitive recommendations on the investments.
In the case of Mr G, he spoke to Firm C about his pension. Firm C completed a fact-find and 
requested details from Mr Gs former employer as to his entitlement under  the OPS. After 
information was received  from the OPS, Mr G was referred  to Portafina for pension transfer 
advice.
Portafina completed its own fact-find. This recorded  that:
Mr G was 57, with an expected retirement age of 65.
He was married  with children.
He was unemployed  with a gross  monthly income of 1,100.  His expenditure and 
disposable income were  unknown.
He had an outstanding mortgage.
He had a balanced attitude  to risk.
His final salary OPS  would provide an annual  income  of 3,501 but he was currently 
being offered a cash equivalent transfer value of 66,650.
He wanted to take maximum  tax-free cash to refurbish a house hed inherited and he 
didnt want to use his emergency fund to do this.
He didnt  require an income at that time.
He was particularly eager to get his money away from his former employer  as he 
didnt like or trust them.
He was very unhappy  with the funding position of the OPS.
Portafina also provided a copy of Firm Cs fact-find.  This contained limited information  but does 
confirm that Mr G was receiving 1,100 per month in state benefits and his total monthly  
expenditure was 800. It also stated that he had 500 in a deposit account  and 5,000 on a 
credit card. It reiterated Mr Gs concerns about  his former employer.
In its suitability report, Portafina explained that a growth rate of 8.1% was required for the new 
personal pension to match the benefits Mr G was entitled to through  his OPS. But the report  said 
that if Mr G used income drawdown to access his benefits, as opposed  to purchasing an annuity, 
then over Mr Gs entire lifetime the actual investment  return needed to match  the scheme  
pensions was 2.79% per year.
Based on Mr Gs risk classification, Portafina estimated the personal pension would  grow  at a 
rate of 6.13%,  not including the advice  and plan charges. Having considered  all the information, 
Portafina recommended that Mr G transfer his OPS  to a SIPP. The report  explained that Portafina 
wasnt providing advice regarding  the investments within  the SIPP as this was to be done by Firm 
C.
Its not clear if Mr G spoke to Firm C before  accepting Portafinas  advice and before the SIPP was 
established in November 2014. The OPS transfer completed in January 2015 and Mr G 
immediately took 25% as a tax-free lump sum (16,662.50), leaving  the remaining  funds  in cash. 
The servicing  rights for the SIPP  were  then transferred  over to Firm C on 29 January 2015. In 
February 2015 Firm C invested the remaining  funds as follows:
UCIS
4,700 - Biomass Investment Plc
4,700 - Brisa Investments Plc
4,700 - Strategic Residential Dev
4,700 - Lakeview  UK Investments
4,700 - Real Estate Investments
Ref: DRN137715219Regulated investments
13,980.70 - Marlborough ETF Global
2,329.77 - Thesis  Spectrum Green
4,659.53 - Thesis  Spectrum Orange
In 2018, Mr G complained  to Portafina about the advice he received  to transfer  his OPS  to a SIPP.  
He said that the advice was negligent and wasnt suitable for someone with no investment 
experience. He thought that Portafina shouldve  had a system  in place to ensure that Firm Cs 
investment recommendations were in line with his attitude  to risk and capacity for loss. These 
factors were  clearly ignored when  Firm C advised him to invest in excess of 35% of his fund in 
high-risk unregulated investments.
Portafina reviewed the complaint but it didnt think it had done anything  wrong. In its final response 
it said that it had only provided transfer advice to Mr G; it hadnt provided specific investment 
advice, that had been  provided by Firm C. It was therefore  unable to comment on the nature of the 
investments.
In terms of the transfer, Portafina said that it had facilitated this as Mr G had wanted to transfer 
out of his OPS as soon as possible. And it had also ensured that the transfer was suitable for 
him. In terms of the concerns about the investments, as both Firm S and Firm C were  in 
liquidation, Portafina confirmed that it had forwarded these concerns  to the liquidators.
Mr G was unhappy  with Portafinas response so he referred  the matter  to this service for an 
independent review.
The complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. During a telephone call with the 
adjudicator, Mr G confirmed that he needed  to access  his tax-free cash to support his son at 
university and for everyday  living expenses. Having reviewed everything provided  at that time, the 
adjudicator thought the complaint against Portafina should  be upheld. In summary  he thought  that:
Portafina had failed to suitably  assess  Mr Gs circumstances or to discuss the 
consequences of transferring.
One of Mr Gs objectives had been to preserve  his death benefits,  this was unlikely to 
happen if this was his only pension provision.
Mr G was receiving 1,100 per month in state  support but if this was insufficient  for him 
and he was considering  using his pension to supplement his income,  this wasnt factored 
in when  calculating the critical yield, hurdle rates or future assumed investment returns.
The critical  yield was carried out assuming Mr G took his retirement benefits at age
65. The transfer  value  analysis sheet (TVAS) stated that a critical yield of 8.1% was 
required if all benefits were  taken as income. But Portafina didnt provide a critical  yield 
figure to reflect the scenario that Mr G had an immediate  need to take tax-free cash.
The regulator publishes discount rates for the purposes of the industry wide pension 
review. Although this transfer  is outside of the review  remit,  these  rates could be used to 
give an indication  of what  rates of growth would  have been considered reasonable at the 
time. Based on the term to retirement at the time of advice,  that being 8 years, and a 
transfer date of January 2015, the suggested rate would be 3.9% per annum. Therefore, it 
would seem  that the critical yield required to match the income available from the ceding 
scheme at age 65 was far in excess of what the regulator would consider reasonable.  And 
to make a transfer worth considering, it needed to be demonstrated that there was a good 
chance the receiving  scheme  would  provide greater benefits in retirement, to make up for 
the loss of the guarantees  which would be given  up on transfer, and therefore  a further 2% 
should be added. So a critical yield rate of 10.10% would more accurately reflect a rate 
that would provide an increase in benefits for Mr G.
In the suitability report,  Portafina stated,  Due to your risk rating  of ATR [sic], your stated 
age of retirement and your needs and objectives we would recommend that you invest in 
Ref: DRN137715220the following fund asset classes,  however, Firm C will contact you in due course to discuss 
the actual fund investment portfolio. Portafina couldnt provide suitable  transfer advice 
without knowing where the investments would  be held, even if the formal investment  
advice was provided  by another regulated entity.
Portafina didnt accept the adjudicators findings so the complaint  has now been passed to me 
to review everything afresh.
Since the matter has been with me for consideration, further information  has been received. 
Portafina has provided information regarding its relationship with Firm C. And details of the due 
diligence checks it completed on Firm S and Firm C before accepting  clients it referred for 
pension advice.
Ref: DRN137715221Its also provided a recording of the fact-finding telephone call with Mr G that was previously  
unavailable. In this telephone call Mr G explained  that he was currently living in a house  hed 
inherited but it needed extensive refurbishment. Portafinas adviser asked Mr G if he had any other 
pensions or means  to pay for the work. Mr G explained that he did have other savings, which he 
didnt want to access,  and a smaller pension plan.  He also explained  that the reason for moving his 
pension was twofold, not only did he want access to his tax-free  cash but he also wanted to move 
his OPS away  from his former employer. Hed not left employment on good terms and he didnt 
trust his former employer with his pension. In response to this the adviser mentioned  that the OPS 
was only 44% funded.
During the call Mr G also confirmed  to the adviser  that hed previously invested in the stock market 
when he was trying to build up money to help his daughter purchase a house. But hed only ever 
invested in blue chip companies. And he said that he didnt want to take much  of a risk with his 
pension, hed only be willing to accept short term losses of 10% as a maximum. And he wanted to 
invest in liquid  assets only. He also said that if his pension income dropped by a maximum of 10%, 
he would still be able to maintain his standard of living  as he had other savings he could access.
The OPS administrator has confirmed that the scheme is no longer with Mr Gs former employer.  
And a new sponsoring employer had already  taken  over at the time of advice and a plan had been 
put in place to address the schemes underfunding.
Ive now considered this further information, along with all the submissions provided by both 
parties and Im in a position to set out my provisional findings.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently minded to uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Portafina recommended that Mr G transfer his OPS  to a SIPP but it says that it didnt provide 
advice as to the investments within the SIPP  because this was being  provided by Firm C. So, in 
the suitability letter Portafina based its recommendation on an example portfolio for a balanced risk 
investor.
Mr G accepted the recommendation  and Portafina arranged for the SIPP to be set up, the OPS  to 
be transferred and for the funds to be fully invested in cash. Shortly after this was completed, the 
servicing rights  for the SIPP were transferred  to Firm C. Firm C subsequently arranged  for the 
SIPP funds to purchase a number of investments, five of which were unregulated.
Ive thought about this carefully. Even if it wasnt specifically intending  to advise  on the 
investments, Portafina needed to have an awareness  of the intended investments in order to give 
suitable advice. This remains the case even  if Firm C was actually providing that advice. It is, in my 
view, reasonable to expect a firm that is assessing the suitability of a pension  transfer to consider 
the overall investment strategy that applies to that proposed transfer, including a broad 
understanding of the proposed investments, before it could determine whether the transfer was in 
Mr Gs best interest.
In forming this view, I have  taken  account of relevant  laws and regulations; regulators  rules, 
guidance and standards, and what I consider to be relevant industry practice  at the relevant 
time.
As the adjudicator  explained in his opinion,  on 18 January 2013 the regulator at the time issued 
an alert about advising on pension transfers with a view to investing  pension monies into 
unregulated products  through  a SIPP.
The regulator  made  its position  clear  in the alert, where  it said:
Ref: DRN137715222The FSAs  view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of the 
other investments held by the customer or, when  advice is given on a product which is a vehicle 
for investment  in other products (such as SIPPs  and other wrappers), consideration of the 
suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper  and the expected underlying  investments 
in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a 
customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the 
advice on the pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy  the customer 
is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation  will enable investment  in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated  elements.
I acknowledge that the regulators statement  in the alert is not guidance or rules or standards 
in the sense that such  requirements  are specified by the regulator in its Handbook. Nonetheless, 
I regard it as a relevant consideration when determining  this complaint by reference to what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
In doing so, I also acknowledge that in the scenario set out in the alert,  the other firm that made 
the investment  recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulated  
introducer. Whereas in Mr Gs case, Firm C was authorised to conduct  investment business 
under its AR agreement with Firm S, and in turn Firm C could itself be pursued for compensation 
by a consumer within the financial services regulatory  regime.
Portafina may believe  that this in turn distinguished the circumstances of Mr Gs transaction  from 
the scenario that the alert was aimed  at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to assess the 
overall suitability of the proposed investments. It might say that was particularly  the case  as it had 
said to Mr G that it wasnt providing any advice  on the underlying investments as Firm C was 
doing that. Whilst  Ive given that possibility careful thought,  I dont agree that the alert was limited 
to those very specific circumstances.
I can see that the alert makes it clear that suitable investment advice generally requires  
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the overall  
proposition when advice is given on a product  that is a vehicle for investment in other products 
(such as the SIPP in Mr Gs case). It further refers to the broadly applicable rules  and guidance 
that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must  first take time to familiarise itself with the 
wider investment and financial circumstances.  In saying that, I dont think the FCA intended that in 
pension transfer cases, regard to the overall proposition  was only required where the introducing  
firm was unregulated,  or where the assets contemplated included unregulated  investments. In my 
view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application  to pension 
transfer advice, but pointing out that it had particular concern about  cases  in which unregulated  
firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. I think the alert is relevant to firms in the 
position of Portafina in this case. It indicates such firms should not be giving advice  on a restricted  
basis. It didnt consider a firm could  reasonably separate out the two elements of the transaction; 
its advice on the suitability of the transfer should include consideration of the suitability of the 
underlying investments.
Portafina says that it satisfied itself that Firm C was able to introduce clients and advise on 
investments without breaching the relevant  rules. And it says that as Firm C and Firm S were 
bound by the then regulators rules, they had a duty to provide suitable  advice and their clients 
would have recourse  through the FSCS.
I agree that by virtue  of its AR agreement, Firm C was required to give suitable advice; but this 
didnt absolve Portafina  from its responsibility to do the same. And in my view, it could only 
reasonably assess the suitability of the transfer if consideration was given  to the expected 
underlying assets of the SIPP.
Ref: DRN137715223Prior to the introduction to Portafina, Firm C had already completed  a fact find for Mr G. So I think 
its likely  that Firm C had in mind a portfolio  of intended investments before Portafina was 
involved. Firm C advised  Mr G to invest a significant  proportion of his SIPP in unregulated  
investments. Portafina says it did not know this was Firms Cs intention  - but it would have,  had it 
found out about the intended  investments as I consider it was required to do; they were  part and 
parcel of the transfer. But it appears  that in giving  its advice to transfer, Portafina  failed to check  
how Firm C broadly  proposed to invest Mr Gs money.
Portafina has explained that part of its due diligence  checks  into Firm C included information  from a 
previous compliance health check completed by external consultants.  This confirmed  that neither Firm 
S nor Firm C recommended nor otherwise promoted UCIS.
Ive thought carefully about  this, but it seems this health check was completed before Firm C 
approached Portafina  in late 2013 to discuss referring  clients to it for pension  transfer advice. And 
despite Portafina making other enquiries with Firm C before agreeing  to accept  referrals, it doesnt 
appear it specifically asked  for confirmation that the information  in the previous health check  was 
current and that Firm C wouldnt  be recommending  or promoting UCIS.  I think it was important for this 
to be confirmed.
In any event, the previous health check seems to have been the extent of Portafinas enquiries into 
recommendations of UCIS  and this was some time prior to Mr Gs transaction. In my view,  it 
shouldve done more to ensure it understood the types of investments Firm C would be 
recommending, and in particular in connection with Mr Gs proposed  transfer.
Often investment advisers will have a model portfolio for each category of investor. Portafina has said 
that it was assured that Firm C had adopted use of the Finametrica risk profiling questionnaire  from 
April 2012 so as to ensure its investment recommendations wouldnt exceed a client's attitude & 
capacity for investment risk. And it was assured  that Firm C invested clients' portfolios  into risk-graded 
portfolios of cash, equities & bonds. But this seems to have been the extent of Portafinas enquiries  
into the types  of investments Firm C would be recommending. It didnt  ask to see model portfolios  for 
the various risk categories so it could  check that these were in line with what it considered to suit each 
risk group. And, even  if it had seen these, I would still have expected Portafina to request details 
upfront from Firm C as to the intended portfolio for Mr G. Portafina shouldve  asked about  the 
proposed investments and Firms Cs risk rating for Mr G. Without this information, Im not satisfied  
that Portafina could reasonably assess the suitability  of the transfer.
Had Portafina  requested this information and it had been advised  that Firm C intended to invest  Mr G 
in a number of UCIS, then it couldve questioned this, given how at odds it was with his established 
attitude to risk. And in the event that Portafina had been misled by Firm C as to the proposed 
investments, then its likely Mr G wouldve realised that the investments Firm C went  on to arrange 
differed to those Portafina had based its suitability assessment on. And Mr G couldve taken  action 
accordingly.
In reaching this view,  Ive also taken account of the relevant rules  set out by the regulator. These 
include the overarching Principles for Businesses. Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill, care and diligence), 
6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable  care)  are of particular relevance  here.
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out the rules regulated 
businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R required Portafina to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that a personal recommendation was suitable for Mr G. It had to obtain information  as 
to Mr Gs knowledge  and experience (relevant to the specific type of designated investment),  his 
financial situation and investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2R required  Portafina  to gather sufficient information from Mr G to ensure the 
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the risks involved and that he had the 
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved  in the transaction.
Ref: DRN137715224Under COBS 2.1.1R Portafina had to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  with 
the best interests of its client.
In my view,  the FCA had rules of this nature in mind  when  it said in the alert:
There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and Conduct of Business  rules  and also 
in established case law for any adviser, in the giving  of advice,  to first take time to familiarise  
themselves with the wider  investment and financial circumstances. Unless the adviser has done 
so, they will not be in a position to make  recommendations on new products.
To my mind, the combined  effect of these rules, standards and statements is that, when giving 
advice on a pension  transfer, the regulator expects the advising firm to consider  the suitability  of 
the transaction as a whole, including  the investments  that are expected to comprise the 
underlying assets of the pension scheme.
Ive taken the regulators statement and the relevant rules into account  when considering  my 
view of the fair and reasonable  outcome  in this case. In my view, Portafina  failed reasonably to 
take account of the overall investment proposition for Mr G when it advised  him to transfer away 
from his OPS.
In saying  that, I acknowledge that Portafinas suitability  report for Mr G did outline its 
recommendations based  on a model  portfolio for an investor  with Mr Gs risk profile.  The report 
spoke of a recommended  portfolio for Mr G that avoided  too much volatility and spread the risks 
over a number of investment  types. I can see that a section  of the report  was headed Your Fund 
Recommendations and included an asset allocation  table that was intended to indicate  the spread 
of investments across a range of classes including equities, cash, fixed  interest,  property, and 
secured structured bonds. However, I note that the table was left blank. More to the point,  there 
was a significant  disconnect between the recommended investment portfolio on which  Portafinas 
suitability report was based and the investment portfolio that was eventually arranged for Mr G by 
Firm C. I think Portafina  needed to do more to satisfy  itself that its recommendation was based on 
the expected investment proposition  that Firm C intended  for Mr G. It needed at the very least, to 
ask Firm C for an outline of that proposition.  It appears that Portafina  failed to do that and as a 
result, Mr G ended up with high risk investments in his pension that were not contemplated by 
Portafina when it recommended the transfer.
As I say, I would expect Firm C to give a clear and honest outline of Mr Gs investment proposition 
when asked to do so by Portafina. On receipt of that, I would further expect  Portafina to have told 
Mr G that it couldnt recommend a transfer away from his OPS in those circumstances.
I accept, of course, that there is a possibility that Firm C may not have been entirely forthcoming 
to Portafina about its plans to spread a significant portion  of Mr Gs portfolio  over high risk 
unregulated investments. Nonetheless, I do think that if Portafinas suitability report had clearly 
outlined the investment portfolio Firm C had said it expected to recommend, this would at least  
have given Mr G an opportunity to raise any discrepancies between  that expectation and the 
actual investments arranged with Firm C and/or Portafina.
Portafina has pointed to what it regards as significant compliance and due diligence  checks  at the 
outset of its relationship with Firm C. Whilst those  checks are important and helpful, I dont think 
they negate the need for reasonable and ongoing  due diligence in connection with particular 
transactions, and this is particularly the case where it has agreed to an ongoing relationship  with an 
introducer in the position  of Firm C.
Mr G has complained that Portafina failed  in its duty of care as it didnt have  a system in place to 
follow up with Firm C to ensure its recommendation was in line with Mr Gs attitude to risk and 
capacity for loss. I dont think  its unreasonable to suggest that, as part of Portafinas compliance  
checks, it shouldve followed up its recommendations  by asking to see Firm Cs own suitability report 
for Mr G regarding the underlying investments before the investments were  arranged.  That way it 
couldve satisfied itself that the transaction was proceeding in line with the investment proposition on 
Ref: DRN137715225which its recommendation  had been base and that it was aligned to Mr Gs attitude to risk. If it had 
done so, it could have  taken steps to ensure that the high-risk unregulated  investments, which had 
not been  contemplated  when recommending  the transfer,  were  not made.
As it stands,  such checks  were not undertaken by Portafina, and the model  investment portfolio  on 
which Portafinas suitability  report was based was only very loosely described in the report. That 
meant that a person in Mr Gs position couldnt reasonably have known that the class and mix of 
investments that Portafina was anticipating, and on which its transfer recommendation was based, 
was quite  different to the investments that were  eventually recommended and arranged  for him, so 
that he was not reasonably  in a position to spot that discrepancy and take steps to address it.
All in all, it is my view that Portafina failed to take adequate  steps to consider the investment 
proposition for Mr G as a whole when  assessing the suitability of Mr Gs proposed transfer away 
from his OPS. Im satisfied that if the appropriate steps had been taken to ask Firm C for its 
investment proposition, Portafina wouldve  seen that the proposed investments were  unsuitable for 
Mr G and the recommendation  to transfer  his pension  on that basis wouldnt have been given.
Was the advice to transfer the OPS suitable?
Having considered  whether, in recommending  the transfer, Portafina  reasonably  had regard to the 
expected investment proposition for Mr G as a whole, Ill now consider whether  the transfer ought  to 
have been recommended  in any event.  In other words, even if Firm Cs expected  investment 
proposition for Mr G had been  aligned with the model portfolio contemplated  by Portafina  in its 
suitability report, was the transfer likely to have been suitable for Mr G in any event?
Mr Gs OPS was a final salary scheme which provided  benefits based on his salary whilst in 
employment. It provided a guaranteed income  for the future and a spouses  pension that wasnt 
based on investment returns.  Giving up the benefits and guarantees  available under an OPS  and 
subjecting future pension income to the risks associated with unpredictable investment returns  
should only be done where it can be shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer.  
The COBS guidance (COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice,  stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined  benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out  to be suitable if it can clearly  demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence,  
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's  best interests.
So, the starting  point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. Generally, a transfer will only be in 
the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable prospect that the new arrangement  will provide 
better retirement benefits. The transfer will also need to be suitable, taking into account the 
individuals particular circumstances.
The adjudicators assessment of Mr Gs circumstances took account of the limited information that 
was contained in the sales paperwork from the time of the sale, and Mr Gs recollections of his 
circumstances at that time. This information  was incomplete, contradictory  and Mr Gs reasons  for 
wishing to access  his benefits were unclear.
Portafina has now provided a copy of the fact-finding telephone call between its adviser and Mr G. 
As this is a call from the time of the sale,  Im satisfied  that it provides an accurate reflection of Mr 
Gs circumstances at that time.
From that call, its evident that Mr G had very negative  feelings towards his former employer.  He 
didnt trust it with his pension and wanted to move it away. Mr G had also recently inherited a 
house, that he was living in at that time but it needed refurbishment work. So as well as moving his 
pension away from his former employer, Mr G wanted to access his tax-free cash  to carry out the 
work. When asked how important the OPS  was for his retirement,  Mr G said he had one other 
Ref: DRN137715226pension, which was smaller than the OPS. He also confirmed that between  other savings  and 
things that we have, well be ok. Mr G also said that he didnt want  to use his savings  plans to pay 
for the refurbishment work.
COBS 19.1.2R states that a firm must:
(1) compare the benefits  likely (on reasonable assumptions)  to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme  with the benefits afforded by a personal  pension 
scheme or stakeholder pension scheme, before it advises a retail client to transfer  out 
of a defined benefits  pension scheme;
(2)ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to 
make an informed  decision;
(3)give the client a copy of the comparison,  drawing the client's attention  to the 
factors that do and do not support  the firm's advice, no later than when  the key 
features document  is provided;  and
(4)take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firm's 
comparison and its advice.
There was a pension  transfer  value analysis report (TVAS) completed at the time by Portafina that 
showed that a critical yield of 8.1% pa was required  to match benefits from the OPS. But this was 
based on the full transfer value. So it made no allowance  for advice, plan or other ongoing 
charges. This meant the growth needed just to match the benefits being given up was 
understated. Like the adjudicator, I feel the growth required to provide an increase  in benefits for 
Mr G was too high to make the transfer viable.
The advice was given  at a time when there were no industry standard  projection rates to assess  
the likelihood of the critical yield being achieved. But at the time the regulators assumed future 
growth rates  for personal pensions illustrations were 2% (lower); 5% (intermediate);  and 8% 
(higher). So even if the personal pension  had achieved the highest maximum  projected growth at 
that time, it was unlikely Mr G would  receive a materially higher pension at retirement  as a result 
of transferring. This was supported in Portafinas own suitability report where it estimated that, 
based on Mr Gs attitude to risk, his personal  pension  would grow at a rate of 6.13%.
However, Portafina  based  its recommendation on the life time hurdle rate, which  was 2.79%, 
rather than the critical yield. It did this because it assumed  Mr G wouldnt  opt to buy an annuity 
with his fund and would  instead take his benefits via income drawdown.
The guidance under  COBS  19.1.3 G states  that the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail  client's relevant circumstances;
(2)have  regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing them with the benefits  and options under the proposed scheme;
(3)explain the assumptions  on which  it is based  and the rates of return  that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being  given up; and
(4)be illustrated on rates of return  which take into account the likely expected 
returns of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested
Having thought carefully,  Im not satisfied that using the hurdle rate was appropriate  in
Mr Gs case.  Firstly, the hurdle rate is used to determine the growth required to match he starting 
pension of the OPS, without increases and without a spouses pension being  included.  Mr Gs OPS 
provided a 50% spouses  pension and it escalated in retirement. So the hurdle rate doesnt replicate 
Ref: DRN137715227the benefits Mr G was giving up, which, as can be seen from the above guidance,  was what  the 
regulator wanted businesses  to do when comparing schemes.
I accept that Mr G may not have had an immediate  need for income at the time of advice and that 
he may have  shown a preference for flexibility during the fact-finding call. But I dont think 
Portafina, or Mr G, could say with any certainty, 8 years  before he planned  to retire,  that he was 
definitely going to take his benefits via income drawdown. So, even if the regulator  was satisfied 
that the hurdle rate was an appropriate comparison  - which it wasnt - it seems unreasonable to 
use the hurdle  rate when comparing the OPS  benefits  with the SIPP.  So Im satisfied that the 
appropriate growth rate to use was the critical  yield figure of 8.1%.  And as explained  above, this 
was greater  than the highest of the regulators assumed future  growth rates  and so I think Mr G 
was likely  to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the OPS at retirement, as a 
result of transferring his OPS.
I note that Portafina considers Mr G understood and accepted why Portafina was using the hurdle 
rate and not the critical yield. But having listened to the call, Im not satisfied he fully understood 
what he was being told during the call.
I say this because when the adviser  explained that the critical yield was 8.1%, Mr G said good, 
which to my mind  suggests that he thought this was the growth  he would receive on the plan, not 
the growth that was required  to meet the benefits.  And in terms of the hurdle rate, the adviser said 
that this was based on Mr G living until age 90, when in fact the hurdle rate calculation appears to 
have been based on Mr G living to 83, which  was the average life expectancy for someone of Mr 
Gs age. So as well as the advice and plan charges  not being taken  into account when  the hurdle 
rate was calculated, the actual growth required if Mr G lived until age 90, wouldve been higher. So 
the hurdled  rate of 2.79% was understated. In any event, even if this hadnt been  the case, for the 
reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded  the use of the hurdle rate meets the regulators 
requirements or was appropriate in Mr Gs circumstances. So even if Mr G had understood and 
accepted Portafina using the hurdle  rate, it doesnt make  its use as a method of comparing the two 
different arrangements appropriate.
The critical yield isnt the only factor  that needed to be taken into account  when assessing  
whether Mr G should transfer his benefits. Consideration  also had to be given  to Mr Gs attitude 
to risk.
Mr G has said that he had a balanced attitude  to risk. And Portafina also assessed him as 
balanced. This was established using risk profile  forms, which posed a number of questions and Mr 
Gs answers determined his risk profile. These tools can be useful but I dont think  Mr Gs attitude 
to risk should have been based solely on this. Other  factors also needed to be taken  into account 
when assessing this, including an analysis of Mr Gs overall circumstances and existing 
investments.
Aside from his OPS  and his state pension  entitlement, Mr G had one other  pension, which  he 
said was smaller  than the OPS. He also said that he had other savings plans.  But Mr G wasnt 
working and so didnt have the means to top up his pension provision  or savings. And although 
he said that he had experience of the stock  market, his own comments  during the fact-finding call 
suggest that this was quite  limited and solely involving blue chip companies. And he didnt 
currently have  any investments. So, although I appreciate  Mr G was willing to accept  some 
degree of risk with his pension benefits,  I think Portafina shouldve noted that Mr G didnt have 
the capacity  for loss that a medium risking rating brought with it.
During the fact-finding call Mr G explained that he and his wife had recently inherited a property 
from his in-laws. He was renting out his own home and living in the inherited property. But it 
needed extensive refurbishment. So, he needed access to funds to pay for the work to be 
completed. So Ive thought about whether Mr G shouldve been  advised to transfer, regardless of 
the critical yield, his attitude to risk and capacity for loss.
Ref: DRN137715228The benefits  that Mr G had accrued in his OPS  represented much of his pension provision. I 
wouldve expected  Portafina  to have obtained  details of Mr Gs other pension plan so it could fully 
assess his situation and consider whether there was an alternative option that meant he wouldnt 
have needed to give up the valuable benefits  within  his OPS.  Particularly as the advice was 
provided not long after the government announced major changes to pension laws allowing people 
more flexibility in the way they accessed their pension  benefits  notably being  able (subject  to 
certain restrictions) to take them as a lump sum.
Although these new rules didnt come into effect  until April 2015, they were  announced in April 2014 
so Portafina ought to have  been aware that they were being introduced.  However, it failed to obtain 
details of Mr Gs other pension or to investigate whether  it wouldve  been possible for him to access 
the benefits of that plan under the new rules, which came into force within  a few months of the 
transfer completing.
Whilst Mr G explained during the call that the house hed inherited needed renovations, theres  
nothing to suggest that the work was so urgent that it couldnt have waited a matter of months until 
these new rules had been introduced. Had Portafina investigated this fully, as it shouldve done, it 
may have been the case that Mr G wouldve  been  able to access his smaller  pension  as a lump  sum 
and leave his larger guaranteed pension  untouched.
Portafina also failed to obtain  further  details of Mr Gs savings. I can see that Firm C noted  on its own 
fact-find that Mr G had 500 in a deposit account.  But during the fact-finding call with Portafina, Mr G 
said that hed be ok in retirement because of his savings. So Im not persuaded  500 was the extent 
of his savings.  And I think its possible Mr G couldve  raised the funds needed for the refurbishment 
works by other means, such as accessing his smaller  pension or using  his savings  plans, rather than 
accessing his OPS. I appreciate  that Mr G said he didnt  want to access  his savings plans to complete  
the work. But Portafina  failed to investigate this option,  or to explain  the importance of what  Mr G was 
giving up by moving  his OPS. Portafina also failed to ask about Mrs Gs circumstances so its not 
known whether she was in a position to fund the refurbishment of her parents house.  Although  
Portafina were providing advice to Mr G on his pension, I think it needed  this information  in order to 
get the full picture of Mr Gs circumstances.
Whilst Mr G required funds  for house renovations, I agree with Portafina that a significant 
motivation for him wishing to transfer his OPS appears to have been a desire to move the fund 
away from his former employer. In the fact-finding call Mr G said he didnt trust it with his pension. I 
accept Mr G may have had genuine concerns and thats not unusual when an individual leaves  
employment on bad terms. But those  concerns  should only have comprised one of a number of 
relevant circumstances  and objectives to take into account when assessing the suitability  of a 
transfer away  from his OPS benefits. This wasnt a situation where Mr G was simply giving 
Portafina an instruction. He went to Portafina for advice and it had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that any advice  it gave him was suitable. And in providing that advice, it needed  to make 
sure that it didnt just facilitate what Mr G thought he might like to do.
In saying  this, I note from the call recording that in response to Mr Gs comments  about  his 
employer, the adviser explained that the OPS was only 44% funded, and that hed never seen a 
scheme with such low funding  that hadnt been taken over by the Pension Protection  Fund.  
However, Im not sure that those comments were accurate.  The scheme  administrator has 
confirmed that the pension scheme had a different sponsoring employer by the time of the advice  
and there  was a plan in place to address the schemes underfunding. Portafina  ought  to have 
been aware  of this and shouldve  given  Mr G correct information on the position of the OPS, 
including that it was a separate entity from the former employer. Had it done so, then what  
appears to have been  Mr Gs main driver for wishing to move his pension,  may no longer have  
been relevant.
Mr G has also complained  that he was told his wife would  receive the full fund on his death  if he 
transferred his OPS  to a SIPP.  And while I acknowledge  he was initially told this by the adviser, the 
adviser did correct  this and explained that as Mr G was taking  tax free cash, the fund would  be 
Ref: DRN137715229reduced to reflect this. However, it wasnt explained during this call that any lump sum payable  to 
his wife would be dependent on what remained in the fund when Mr G died. And that this amount, 
if any, would be subject to a 55% tax charge. The suitability report did explain this but this was 
important information that may have impacted Mr Gs decision making. So, I think Portafina ought 
to have been  clearer during  the call when they explained this to Mr G so as to ensure he was fully 
informed.
So overall, Im not persuaded the advice to transfer was suitable. Further, it is my view that that 
would be the case even if the underlying  investments arranged by Firm C were  properly aligned 
with the investment portfolio contemplated by Portafina in its suitability  report.
Would Mr G have gone ahead with the transfer in any event?
Ive given  careful thought as to whether,  if hed been correctly advised by Portafina not to 
transfer, Mr G might have gone ahead with the transfer anyway.
Mr G has suggested in his complaint letter  that if it had been explained,  hed have taken  tax free 
cash from his OPS and a reduced pension but this option wasnt discussed. However,  this is said 
now with the benefit of hindsight and I can see that there are features of the sale that might 
suggest a determination on Mr Gs part to transfer. In particular, its clear that he had a strong 
motivation to move his pension away from his former employer. As mentioned previously hed said 
that he wasnt  leaving  his money where it was.
However, I also note that Mr G was originally contacted by way of a cold call by a marketing 
company on behalf of Portafina in which  he was offered  a free pension  review.  It was from that 
starting point  that the eventual transfer advice  came about, and that to my mind makes  the 
suggestion that he was insistent on moving  his pension away less compelling  than it would  be if he 
had approached  Portafina  himself. In any event, its clear that when  Portafina conducted its fact 
find call with Mr G, he listed his objectives as including  better performance of his pension,  access 
to his tax-free cash and his desire to move away from his employer.
This suggests to me that although he was certainly  keen to move his pension  away from his former 
employer, he nonetheless also had other motivations  for wanting to transfer; primarily,  he wanted 
advice about whether he could achieve better pension  performance with a personal  pension plan.
In that regard, its evident from the fact-finding call that Mr G was only willing  to suffer  a maximum 
reduction of 10% in his pension.  However, looking  at the figures on the TVAS, Mr G was entitled 
to an annual  pension  from his OPS of 3,501  at the age of 65. Yet it was estimated that if he took 
the benefits at the same age from his personal  pension, hed receive  2,884, a reduction of almost 
20% in his pension. Although this was set out in the TVAS, it was explained  in the suitability 
report. This was important information that Mr G needed to be made aware of in order to make a 
fully informed decision.
Further, and as Ive said, the Portafina adviser  in his fact-finding phone  call with Mr G appeared to 
endorse Mr Gs concerns  about the former employers scheme by making comments  about  the 
scheme that appear to have been misleading. If Portafina had taken reasonable  steps to 
investigate Mr Gs concerns  about the scheme, it wouldve discovered that the position had 
changed. The scheme was no longer in the hands of his former employer  and a plan had been 
put in place to address its underfunding  and whilst  I dont think such information wouldve  
entirely put Mr Gs mind at rest about the scheme, I do think it wouldve given him some comfort 
when considering whether he might be better off by keeping his pension provision where  it was.
As things stand, it is my view that if Portafina  had given  Mr G suitable advice (that he would be 
better off with his OPS)  he wouldnt have transferred away from that scheme. If Portafina had 
clarified the situation  regarding his employers scheme as well as clearly outlining what he stood  to 
lose by transferring away from that scheme, I dont  think it likely that Mr G wouldve  gone against 
that advice.
Ref: DRN137715230Is Portafina wholly responsible for Mr Gs loss?
Im currently  minded to conclude  that the advice  to transfer  was unsuitable. Im satisfied  that the 
losses suffered by Mr G are as a result  of its inappropriate advice  to Mr G to transfer his OPS  to 
a SIPP. And had it not been  for this unsuitable advice, Mr G wouldnt  have been in a position to 
invest as he did through Firm C. Because of this I consider Portafina wholly responsible  for Mr 
Gs resulting losses.
Im not asking Portafina  to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied  those  failings  have  caused  the full extent of the loss in question.
I recognise that Firm Cs actions may also have contributed to Mr Gs loss. So I have considered  
whether I should apportion  only part of the responsibility  for compensating the loss to Portafina.  
In the circumstances,  though, I think its fair to make an award for the whole loss against 
Portafina.
In saying  this I take account of the fact that Firm C is now in liquidation and in turn any claim 
against that firm would need to be considered  by the FSCS. As a scheme  of last resort, its 
possible the FSCS wouldnt  pay out if a third party  could also be held liable.  Which means an 
apportionment of only part of the loss to Portafina could risk leaving Mr G out of pocket.
But in any event, as I have said,  I consider  that Mr G wouldnt have  lost out at all but for Portafinas 
failings and that in turn, it is fair and reasonable that Portafina  should  account  to Mr G for the full 
extent of his loss.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would  have remained in 
the OPS. So I intend to recommend that Portafina undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority  in October  
2017.
Assuming no further submissions are provided  that change  my provisional decision,  a calculation 
should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most recent financial 
assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following  receipt  of 
notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Gs contribution history  to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). 
These details  should then be used  to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  which 
will take into account  the impact of leaving the occupational scheme  on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should if possible be paid into Mr 
Gs pension plan. The payment should allow  for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. 
The compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. Typically,  25% of the loss could  have been  taken as tax-free 
cash and 75% would  have been taxed according to his likely  income tax rate in retirement   
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately 
reflects this.
Ref: DRN137715231The payment resulting  from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The compensation  
amount must  where possible  be paid to Mr G within  90 days of the date Portafina  receives  
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date of my final decision to the 
date of settlement  for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portafina to pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time 
where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation  is data from DWP  may be 
added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mr G to the position  he would have been  in but for the actions of Portafina. This 
is complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot  be readily sold on the open 
market), as their value  cant  be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina should agree  an amount  with the SIPP  provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs,  and take ownership of 
the investment. If Portafina  is unable  to buy the investment, it should  give it a nil value  for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. The value  of the SIPP used in the calculations should 
include anything  Portafina  has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied  
to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return  for this, Portafina  may ask Mr G to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment  he may receive from the investment. That undertaking  should  allow for 
the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portafina will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina asks Mr G to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent  upon provision of that undertaking.
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can award  fair compensation of up to 150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation  
requires payment  of an amount that might exceed  150,000,  I may recommend that the 
business pays  the balance.
Determination and money  award : I intend  to require  Portafina to pay Mr G the 
compensation amount  as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 150,000.
Where the compensation  amount does  not exceed  150,000, I additionally require Portafina to pay 
Mr G any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation  amount already exceeds 150,000, I can only require Portafina to pay Mr 
G any interest as set out above on the sum of 150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds 150,000, I also recommend that 
Portafina pays  Mr G the balance.  I additionally recommend any interest calculated  as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on Portafina.  My recommendation is 
not binding on Portafina. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept  my decision and go to court  to 
ask for the balance.  Mr G may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision.
Ref: DRN137715232my provisional  decision
For the reason  explained,  Im currently minded to uphold this complaint  and I intend to direct  
Portafina LLP to pay redress as set out above.
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN1377152