K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains that certain underwriters at Society of Lloyds (the underwriters) have 
unfairly restricted her freedom to choose her own solicitor under her legal expenses 
insurance.
background
Ms T holds a home insurance policy with Society  of Lloyds that includes legal expenses  
insurance, including defence against  investigations  brought by regulatory bodies.  Ms T is a 
pharmacist and was subject to an inquiry  by her regulatory body who were considering her 
competence to practise following  a reported  incident. 
The matter  was referred to an investigating  committee in March 2018, and the General 
Pharmaceutical Council (GPHC) had instructed solicitors to review and summarise the 
case against Ms T. Meanwhile  her own professional body  the Pharmacist Defence 
Association (PDA)   were assisting Ms T and had instructed solicitors to defend  the case 
being brought against her. 
However, Ms T became increasingly  unsatisfied with the lawyers  appointed by the PDA, so 
she instructed her own solicitors (Firm G) to take over her defence in April 2018,  and 
sought to make a claim against the underwriters  by making a claim under her policy instead.  
The underwriters acknowledged  that cover was available  under the legal defence section of 
the policy. However, they declined to allow Ms T the freedom to choose her own solicitor and 
declined to offer cover  as she had refused the instruction of a panel solicitor.  The 
underwriters did not consider the action being taken against Ms T would constitute an 
inquiry or proceedings  such  that Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies (Legal 
Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 would  apply to allow  freedom of choice. 
In summary,  the underwriters submit:
They consider  legal  proceedings to involve the acquiring of a benefit, interest,  or 
right by enforcing a remedy, action  or procedure established by court decision.
The original letter received by Ms T showed  that she would  be subject to an 
investigation which may lead to a criminal prosecution only if the GPHC were 
directed to do so.
There is no indication of the involvement of a court of law (either civil or criminal) 
being involved in the investigation.
The nature  of the action being taken against Ms T was the GPHC s investigating 
committee considering her fitness to practise.  This committee has no legal standing 
and is in place  to fulfil the Councils  regulatory  functions. They  have the ability to 
issue warnings, accept undertakings or refer the case onto a fitness  to practise  
committee, but there is no legal involvement in this at all. So Ms T has not shown that 
her case  is subject  to legal proceedings, so her freedom  to choose a solicitor has not 
been engaged. 
Firm G disagreed with the underwriters analysis of Ms Ts investigation and their 
interpretation of legal  proceedings. In summary,  they submit:
Ref: DRN12470622Regulation 6 of the 1990 Regulations  applies to inquiries  as well as proceedings, 
and it is not in dispute that the action being taken against Ms T was at least an 
inquiry such that freedom of choice should  apply. 
In any event, the matter should also be considered as legal proceedings. The 
definition used  by the underwriters as requiring court action is incorrect.  UK law does 
not require legal proceedings to be before the ordinary courts and can include 
proceedings by any tribunal under any enactment (as per 18(2)  of the Civil Evidence 
Act 1968 and section  393(12) of the Communications Act 2003).
Ms T was subject to legal proceedings instigated under legal authority by a regulatory  
tribunal, with the legal  authority being  the Pharmacy Order 2010  (with Part 7 referring 
to the matter as proceedings). External lawyers had been instructed by both sides, 
and the matter was one before  a statutory committee which was tasked with reaching  
an outcome. At this stage, witness statements were finalised and evidence compiled.
The committee had direct powers to conclude the matter under its own statutory 
authority (e.g. using its powers to issue a formal warning), or it could refer the matter 
upwards to another statutory committee (the Fitness to Practise Committee)  but the 
nature of the matter would not have changed if it was referred. 
Ms Ts defence involved  avoiding  a formal warning as much as it involved avoiding  a 
referral upwards for more severe  consequences. She also faced allegations of 
dishonesty which had profound implications for her career and ability to work.
Our investigator upheld  Ms Ts complaint. She thought that Ms T was entitled to choose her 
own solicitor under the policy  terms and the 1990 Regulations because it did appear that 
action being taken against her constituted  legal  proceedings (or at least,  an inquiry)  as set 
out by the Pharmacy Order 2010. 
As a result, she said that if the underwriters could show they had panel  solicitors that had the 
necessary skills and expertise to take the case forwards, they should reimburse Ms Ts legal 
costs at their panel rate. However, if they could  not demonstrate this, the investigator 
considered it would be fair for the underwriters to reimburse Ms Ts legal costs in line with 
the court guideline hourly rates. 
The underwriters disagreed. They maintained that the investigation  into Ms Ts actions  did 
not necessitate legal representation. They provided a link to the General Dental Council 
(GDC) pages on its investigatory  committee and said the initial panel only assess whether a 
persons ability  to practise may be affected.  There is no legal process  or personnel involved 
from the GDC side, so they did not agree that a solicitor was required  and maintain  that the 
investigation was not a legal inquiry or proceedings. They also submit:
PDA membership provides pharmacists  with insurance for legal defence costs, public 
liability and professional insurance.  So if Ms T had been  provided with a solicitor that 
was funded under this alternative  insurance policy, the costs  of this would not be 
something she can claim back from the underwriters policy.
Even if freedom of choice did apply,  the underwriters would still have had to establish 
whether the claim  had reasonable  prospects of success, so they do not agree to 
paying retrospective costs, as it isnt clear whether the claim is even one that would 
be covered when considered in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Our investigator upheld  Ms Ts complaint. She thought that the disciplinary action could 
reasonably be interpreted as proceedings  such that Ms T ought to have been given the 
freedom to choose her own solicitors.  So the investigator said that the underwriters should 
pay the claim. 
Ref: DRN12470623Society of Lloyds disagreed, so the complaint  was passed to me to determine.  I issued  my 
provisional findings and said I was intending to uphold Ms Ts complaint  as I also considered 
that she had been wrongly denied the freedom  to choose her own solicitor. And given that 
Ms T was ultimately successful in her defence, I didnt think  it would be appropriate for the 
underwriters to now consider whether her claim would have had reasonable prospects of 
success. As a result, I said I intended asking the underwriters  to cover the claim and pay 
Ms Ts reasonable and necessary legal fees in relation to her defence from the date she 
asked the underwriters to appoint  Firm G. And given that Ms T was wrongly refused freedom 
of choice (and her claim subsequently declined as a result) I said I intended asking the 
underwriters to pay Ms Ts costs  at the applicable  court guideline rate, as they had lost the 
chance to negotiate a more favourable  rate.
Society of Lloyds also raised the matter of Ms T having alternative legal expenses cover 
through the PDA, and said that the policy excludes their liability where a claim is also 
covered wholly  or in part under any other insurance. But Ms T said her claim under the PDA 
policy was ultimately not accepted, and in any event  this policy also had a clause stating the 
insurer would not pay a claim covered under another policy.  Given that both policies cant 
reasonably cancel each other out, I said I was minded to direct Society of Lloyds  to pay the 
entire claim  and seek a contribution from the other insurer. 
In response, Society of Lloyds  said:
They concede that Ms T ought  to have been given the freedom to choose her own 
solicitor at the investigation committee  stage, but that Ms Ts success  in defending 
the allegations made against her is not necessarily  confirmation  of the claim meeting 
the policy threshold of 51% and above;
The circumstances of the claim are such that it may be excluded under other terms 
and conditions of the policy, which they would want to assess. 
In terms of the dual insurance policies, this should be dealt with on a rateable 
proportion basis. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
Society of Lloyds have  said they would still want to assess  whether Ms Ts claim would have 
had sufficient prospects  under the policy. But as Ive explained to the underwriters 
previously, I do not think it would  be appropriate to now undertake a retrospective 
assessment. The main purpose of a prospects assessment is to consider  whether  the 
policyholders legal  claim is likely to succeed,  with a court (or other  deciding  authority) being 
likely to find in favour  of the policyholder.  Given that Ms T was ultimately successful in her 
defence, I do not think  it would  be reasonable for the underwriters to now undertake an 
assessment in hindsight  to potentially find that her claim would be unlikely to succeed. So I 
consider that the underwriters should  proceed as if Ms Ts claim did have positive prospects.
Society of Lloyds have  said that they ought to have the opportunity to consider Ms Ts claim 
in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. In particular, they want to assess 
whether the claim  may be excluded due to the fact there was an allegation of dishonesty 
within the proceedings being brought against Ms T. 
Ref: DRN12470624Firm G submit that the underwriters should  not be given  the opportunity to consider the claim 
against any other terms and conditions. However   I can only fairly direct the underwriters to 
meet the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions, as it would  be unfair of 
me to proceed to make any findings on terms and conditions that have not been  disputed 
(aside from whether  the claim had reasonable prospects,  for the reasons given above). 
I do consider that Ms Ts claim meets the immediate requirements for cover  as set out in the 
policy. But I cannot pre-judge the remaining terms and conditions.  So I will be directing 
Society of Lloyds to meet  the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. If the underwriters consider that the claim is otherwise excluded as a result of any 
remaining terms and conditions, Ms T can always refer the matter back  to this service if she 
disputes their decision, at which point  we will be able to determine whether the underwriters 
have acted fairly in any further assessment of the claim. 
In terms of the dual insurance (i.e. the fact that Ms T also has legal expenses  cover through 
the PDA)  Society of Lloyds submit  that they should not be liable to pay more than their 
rateable proportion  of the claim. But Ms T has explained that the claim on the policy she held 
through the PDA was never actually accepted. The PDA did assist Ms T initially  by 
instructing lawyers, but she has provided  evidence to show that this was done on a 
discretionary basis and was unrelated to the legal defence insurance.
The relevant  term in Society  of Lloyds policy states that We will not pay any claim if any 
loss, damage or liability covered under this insurance is also covered wholly  or in part under 
any other insurance (my emphasis). It isnt clear why Ms Ts claim was not accepted  by the 
other insurer. And as she has not brought a complaint against the other insurer,  Im unable 
to comment on whether the claim ought  to have  been accepted by the other  insurer and 
should otherwise  have  been covered. 
So it appears that Society of Lloyds may not be able to seek a contribution in any event,  
given that the claim was not accepted under the alternative policy.  But I appreciate there  is 
some uncertainty surrounding this and that the matter remains open to determination. 
However, as Ive previously explained to the underwriters, in the circumstances I consider it 
would be fair and reasonable for Society  of Lloyds to cover the entire claim, where it will 
then be up to them to seek  any further contribution from the other insurer if there is scope to 
do so.
Ref: DRN12470625my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Ms Ts complaint and direct the Society of Lloyds 
underwriters to:
Cover the claim in line with the remaining policy terms  and conditions, and reimburse 
Ms Ts reasonable and necessary legal fees in relation to her defence at the 
applicable court guideline rate from the date she asked the underwriters to appoint 
her solicitors;  and
Pay 8% simple interest per year on those costs from the date they became payable 
to the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
Society of Lloyds should ensure the claim is finalised as soon as possible, but in any event,  
no later than 60 days of Ms Ts acceptance  of my decision  being received by the 
underwriters. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1247062