K820x#14complaint
Ms H says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) her a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy. 
background
Ms H bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out a Dorothy Perkins  store  card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Ms H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.  Having  done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL  shouldve made it clear  the PPI was optional.  And it shouldve  got Ms Hs 
agreement to buy it. Ms H says it wasnt made clear to her that the PPI was optional. 
She says the sale was rushed and she wasnt aware she was taking the policy  when 
she applied for the card. But Ive seen  a copy of Ms Hs store card application. There 
was a section  on the application  where  she could tick to say if she wanted to buy PPI 
with the card. And Ms H signed  to say she did want the policy in this section. So I 
think its clear  that Ms H needed to select PPI separately to the store  card in order to 
buy it. And I think  FICL made Ms H aware that she had a choice  about  buying the 
PPI, and that she chose  to take it.  
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms H so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it shouldve provided clear information  to Ms H to allow  her to decide if she 
wanted to buy the policy.  Ms H says this didnt happen. So Ive considered  the 
information provided at the time of sale. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But if Ms H couldnt  work for a long period of time she mayve found  
it difficult to make the card repayments.  The PPI wouldve  paid 15% of Ms Hs card 
balance if she couldnt work  due to illness, or she lost her job. The payment wouldve 
been in addition to any sick pay, or unemployment benefits,  she might  have received 
if this happened. It couldve provided a benefit until the card was repaid or she 
returned to work. Which is longer  than her sick pay wouldve lasted.  
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Ms H couldnt  afford to make  the monthly payments to 
the PPI at the time of sale. And she doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of 
the main things the policy  didnt cover such as pre-existing medical conditions.  
Ive taken on board what  Ms H has said about  intending to repay  the card in full and 
only using it to get discounted  purchases.  But if she couldnt work she may not have 
been able to do this as shed  planned.  This kind of insurance  is useful these 
situations. 
Ref: DRN12565542So based on what I know  about  her circumstances it looks  like the policy couldve 
been useful to her. And I dont  think Ms Hs lost out due to anything  that FICL  
mightve done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1256554