K821x#15complaint
Mr B says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr B took out in 2000. It was added to his 
account when  he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. MBNA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
MBNA didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt  have to check the policy was right for 
him. But it did have  to give him information  about  the PPI that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading  so Mr B could decide for himself whether it was right for him.
I dont think MBNA gave Mr B clear  enough  information about the policys  cost and benefit.  
For instance, I cant see where it clearly told him that the premiums  would attract  compound 
interest, or what the policy  would pay out in a claim.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr B, because from what hes told us it looks  like he could 
have met his credit card repayments  for long enough without PPI to not need it.
MBNA says Mr B told it he was only entitled  to statutory sick pay. But according to the record 
of the conversation,  it looks like he actually said he was unsure what  level of sick pay he 
would get. And I think its understandable  if Mr B couldnt recall his sick pay straight away  
when put on the spot,  since this sale was almost  two decades  ago.
Mr B has since clarified his sick pay entitlement from the time of the sale. What  hes told us 
does not seem in any way unreasonable. And given his work situation, such as his skilled 
position and length of service, it seems likely that he wouldve been entitled to work benefits.
Further, according to MBNAs phone  call notes, Mr B was entitled to redundancy benefits 
that wouldve  meant he could have managed for long enough to not need  this policy  if hed 
lost his job.
This particular PPI policy did not offer very comprehensive cover,  and was expensive 
compared to similar policies. What  Mr B has told us about his work benefits is plausible, and 
consistent with his other circumstances.  So I think its most likely that he would not have 
found this policy to be good  value  for him.
Ref: DRN19874382If MBNA had given Mr B sufficiently clear information about  the PPIs  cost and benefit, then 
I think its most likely  he would  not have bought it. So it follows that I think its most likely that 
MBNA mis-sold this policy to Mr B.
putting things right
MBNA should put Mr B in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.MBNA should find out how much  Mr B would have owed when he closed his credit  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund  the difference between what Mr B owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr B made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, MBNA  can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.MBNA should add simple interest on the difference  between what  Mr B would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% simple  a year.
C.If  when  MBNA works out what Mr B would  have owed each month without  PPI  he 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, MBNA should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr B paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Mr B 
wouldve owed MBNA  something on his credit card. The interest  rate should again be 
8% simple  a year.
D.MBNA should tell Mr B what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
MBNA Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1987438