K820x#14Complaint
Mr J, represented by his financial adviser, complains that Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS)  didnt adequately explain  the hire purchase  agreement (HPA) he 
entered to acquire a car. He says that had the impact of returning  the car been  explained  he 
would have retained it and brought his account up to date.
Background
Mr J entered into finance agreement  with VWFS in October  2014.  Mr J maintained the 
payments due under the agreement until July 2016.  He then fell into arrears  and after a 
period of time his agreement was terminated, and the car sold.  Mr J says the impact of the 
termination of his agreement wasnt made clear. His adviser says that Mr J would have 
retained the car and made the required payments had the situation been  properly explained.
VWFS said that Mr J visited the dealer in October 2016 and the dealer contacted VWFS  on 
Mr Js behalf to explain his situation. VWFS  agreed to take no action  until an authorised 
representative was in place to assist  Mr J. When the authorised person was in place it made 
contact and asked  that Mr J complete an income  and expenditure form. The authorised  
person was unable to help with this and after attempting to contact Mr J directly the dealer 
was contacted to see if he could assist.  Mr J competed  an income and expenditure form, but 
this showed he couldnt afford the repayments and so no payment arrangement could  be set 
up.
VWFS said it provided information about the options available to Mr J and a default notice 
was issued in April 2017. As no response was received  the agreement  was terminated in 
May 2017 after which the car was collected. It says Mr Js financial adviser was appointed as 
an authorised third party for Mr J in June 2017  and it contacted VWFS to raise a complaint. 
The adviser said Mr J could afford to settle the agreement and so the sale of the car was put 
on hold. However, following this it was confirmed that Mr J wasnt  looking to settle the 
agreement and so the car was sold, and the proceeds offset against Mr Js outstanding 
balance.
Mr Js adviser  raised a complaint on Mr Js behalf with this service as he didnt think  Mr J 
had been treated properly  given his vulnerability.  He said the process regarding the return of 
the car hadnt  been properly explained.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She noted Mr Js medical  situation  but said 
there was nothing to suggest that he wasnt able to make an informed decision about 
entering the HPA.  She thought VWFS had tried to work with Mr J and that his options were  
explained to him regarding  the return of the car.
Mr Js adviser  accepted that Mr J understood the terms when he entered the HPA. But in its 
view the deterioration  in Mr Js condition meant  he wasnt fully aware of the impact the 
termination of the agreement  would  have.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN16596552Mr J entered a HPA with VWFS in 2014.  At this time, he signed the pre-contractual  
explanation checklist  which  confirmed that the details of the HPA had been explained to him. 
He then signed the HPA which  set out the financial details of the agreement as well as 
Mr Js termination rights. Based on this, I find that Mr J had the information he needed  to 
make an informed decision about whether to enter the HPA.
Mr Js adviser  has said it accepted Mr J understood the terms of the agreement  when he 
entered it and, as I have nothing further  to suggest  this wasnt  the case, I do not find the 
agreement was misrepresented  or mis-sold.
Mr J maintained his payments until July 2016 when  he fell into arrears. The dealer tried to 
support him in his contact with VWFS. VWFS  agreed to put Mr Js account on hold while  he 
got the support he needed which I find shows it was treating him fairly. VWFS contacted the 
person who Mr J authorised on his account and asked for Mr J to complete an income and 
expenditure form. Given Mr J was struggling  to make his payments it is right that VWFS 
wanted information about his financial situation  to ensure any payment  requested  was 
affordable.
VWFS had to chase for the return of the form and when this was received it showed that 
Mr J had negative disposable  income.  Given this a payment plan couldnt be set up and I 
find VWFS acted  correctly by contacting Mr J and his authorised person about the options 
available.
Unfortunately, no response  was received  and so a default notice was issued. No response 
was received to the default notice  and so I cant say VWFS did anything  wrong  by taking 
further action  and terminating the agreement. An arrangement was then made  to collect  the 
car which Mr J agreed to. Following this, the sale of the car was put on hold due issues  
raised by Mr Js adviser. However, in July 2017, VWFS was told Mr J wanted  to sell the car. 
I can see from the contact notes that on this call VWFS explained that Mr J would be liable 
for any shortfall following the sale and that the impact on his credit  file was also explained.
Based on the evidence  provided I find that VWFS tried to work with Mr J and his authorised 
third parties when Mr Js account fell into arrears. It provided Mr J and his representatives 
with the options available  so Mr J could  make an informed decision about  what  action to 
take. When the adviser raised concerns after the collection of the car, further action was put 
on hold until it was confirmed Mr J wanted to sell the car. 
Based on the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN16596553My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complain about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1659655