K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC was irresponsible in their lending decisions when they 
agreed to offer him continual loans despite his other borrowing.
background
Mr C held a current account  with Lloyds since 2006.   In 2011, he successfully applied for an 
overdraft.  In January  2014, Mr C also applied for a credit card.
In March 2014, Mr C applied for a loan of £5,500. He repaid this in full in November 2014.
Mr C then applied for another loan in January 2016 for £25,000. He applied  for this loan in 
branch and Lloyds  referred his application requiring  some further details. Mr C didnt 
progress any further with this application.
In March 2016, Mr C applied for a loan online which was automatically  approved.  A few 
months later in August 2016,  Mr C successfully  applied  for a loan of around  £15,400.  In April 
2017, Mr C applied for a further loan of around £22,000. This was used to refinance all of Mr 
Cs existing borrowing, including his loans,  overdraft and credit  card and it held a lower  
interest rate to his previous loans.  
In December 2017, Mr C complained to Lloyds about the loans  and in particular,  the most 
recent loan for around £22,000.  He  said all of the loans held a high interest rate which 
showed he was high risk. And Lloyds should  have been aware of his other borrowing, 
including to payday lenders.  Mr  B said he was also gambling excessively and Lloyds should 
have been able to see that from his statements.
Mr C told Lloyds that at the time he was relying  heavily  on short term loans and he got into a 
spiral of debt.
Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint.  They said they assessed Mr Cs applications  using 
the credit  policy  in place  at the time. And as the most recent loan, from April 2017, 
refinanced a lot of Mr Cs existing borrowing  and he hadnt declared any changes to his 
financial situation, they were satisfied it was affordable.
Mr C then brought his complaint to this service.  The adjudicator who looked at Mr Cs 
complaint didnt think Lloyds had lent irresponsibly. In summary, she said that Mr C had 
always repaid his loans on time, and didnt declare any financial difficulty  or gambling habits 
to Lloyds. And she was satisfied Lloyds had followed  their lending policy.  
Mr C remained  unhappy. He said that although he repaid  each loan every  time he borrowed 
again, he was still increasing his overall  debt. And he thought  Lloyds should have been  
aware of his other financial situations  (such as the short  term loans and gambling) because  
they had access  to his statements. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree the complaint 
Ref: DRN13023812shouldnt be upheld. I know this will come as a great  disappointment to Mr C so Ive 
explained my reasons  further below. I appreciate Mr Cs comments  about some  of his other 
complaints which  have been upheld,  but Im only considering the circumstances  of this 
complaint.
Before lending to a customer, we expect businesses to perform some checks  to ensure that 
the money can be repaid.  We, as a service,  do not set which checks need  to be carried out 
 this is for a lender to decide.  But we do expect them to be able to show that they carried 
out reasonable checks.
When Lloyds made  the lending  decisions for Mr C, I can see that they assessed his 
application with the credit policy they had in place  at the time. And it was automatically 
accepted. While I cant comment on the individual factors of Lloyds lending  criteria, Im 
satisfied, based  on what Ive seen, that they did carry  out proportionate checks. And nothing 
in those checks suggested to Lloyds that Mr Cs borrowing was unaffordable. 
I appreciate Mr C says Lloyds should have looked further into his spending  habits, but I dont 
think was necessary. I say that because, Mr Cs application showed he had disposable 
income, after the loan payments had been taken. And its up to Mr C what  he spends his 
money on. So although I appreciate there was evidence of excessive gambling on his Lloyds 
account, this didnt solely indicate  any financial difficulties. And Mr C didnt declare he was 
experiencing financial difficulties to Lloyds  either.  Banks are required to deal positively and 
sympathetically with customers in financial difficulty  but customers need to tell them  if 
theyre struggling. 
In Mr Cs particular case, he had held a current account since  2006  and generally 
speaking, the account was well managed.  
Ive thought about what Mr C has said about  his previous reliance on payday loans. But I 
dont think its reasonable to suggest Lloyds would decline him on this basis alone.  Ive 
reviewed Mr Cs credit file, and it doesnt  show he had any adverse markers at the time 
Lloyds approved the loan.  So while I appreciate  Mr Cs use of payday  loans  could have been  
an indication  of financial struggles, its not the only indication. Mr C successfully paid off the 
short term loans and kept up to date with his other  financial commitments. This 
demonstrates Mr C is a reliable borrower, and therefore would likely increase  his likelihood  
of being accepted for borrowing in the future.
Mr C wants to know why Lloyds previously  declined a loan application for him. But I havent 
seen they did so. Im aware a previous loan application, which Mr C made in branch, was 
referred. That was so Lloyds could find out more about the loan purpose  amongst other  
things. I havent  seen anything to suggest Mr C tried to continue  with this loan application 
and therefore  I cant reasonably comment  on it as Lloyds  didnt  assess  the application  fully.
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds carried out proportionate checks  when deciding whether to loan 
to Mr C. And while I appreciate this will come as a great disappointment to him, I cant  fairly 
say Lloyds lent irresponsibly when  approving  Mr Cs loan applications. So I wont be asking 
them to do anything further.
Since making his complaint, Mr C has declared his financial  difficulties. As the recent loan is 
still outstanding,  Im pleased to see Lloyds have given Mr C details  of the relevant team  who 
will be able to discuss his financial situation with him. I would encourage Mr C to make  
contact with the relevant team if he hasnt done  so already.
Ref: DRN13023813my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1302381