K821x#15complaint
Mrs N is unhappy with the information given  to her following  a call to Commercial  Legal 
Limited (Commercial Legal) after her road traffic accident. 
background
Mrs N contacted Commercial Legal following a road traffic accident in February 2019. During 
the call, Mrs N explains the circumstances of her accident, and shes told that Commercial 
Legal deals with non-fault claims. 
Mrs N asks for clarification of the difference between the claim being managed by her 
insurer directly,  and Commercial Legal.  Shes told that Commercial  Legal guarantee a hire 
vehicle, whereas her insurer cant.  
Following an explanation about non fault and fault claims, Mrs N asks whether her claim had 
already been confirmed  as non-fault. The representative replies yes.
Mrs N says that her main priority is having access to a hire car as soon as possible. The call 
handler says that he cant advise on the timescales for this, however once Mrs N confirms  
that she wants to go through with her claim through Commercial  Legal, the hire car team 
would contact her to discuss her options.
Mrs N confirms that she would like her claim to proceed with Commercial Legal. During the 
call, and shortly before  the call ends, Mrs N tells the representative that the other driver was 
trying to blame her for the accident. 
Shortly after speaking to the representative,  Mrs N contacts Commercial Legal and asks 
about the hire and repairs for her car. Shes told that someone  will call her back. 
Later that day, Mrs N contacts Commercial Legal  again, and is told that the claim will be 
dealt with by her insurer, as theres  potential for a liability dispute.
 
Mrs N complains to Commercial Legal  about  the incorrect information given to her during the 
initial call, and that nobody called her to say that the claim had been passed  to her insurer.  
Commercial Legal  agreed  that the representative shouldve  picked  up from the information 
provided during  the call that there could be potential for a liability  dispute, and that Mrs N 
shouldve received a call back telling her that the claim had been passed  to her insurer.  
This complaint was originally investigated  by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) as part of the 
change in the regulation  of claims management companies. 
The investigator found that Mrs N had been  caused trouble and upset because of the 
incorrect information provided, and the lack of contact about  what  had happened to the 
claim. The investigator recommended Commercial Legal pay Mrs N £150  in recognition of 
the impact on her. Commercial Legal disagreed with this compensation, saying that the 
impact only lasted around six hours. As the complaint couldnt be resolved,  its been passed 
to me for decision. 
Ref: DRN14615302my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Mrs N. Having reviewed the case, I agree with the investigators findings.  
Ive explained  why below. 
Its not disputed  that Commercial Legal  made some errors in their handling of Mrs Ns claim, 
for the short time that they dealt with it. The dispute between  Mrs N and Commercial Legal  
relates to the award of compensation that should be paid in recognition  of what  went wrong.  
Commercial Legal  says that they dont think compensation should be paid to Mrs N because 
Mrs N was only misinformed for around  six hours.  Ive considered  these comments. Ive 
seen that the case notes  provide a summary  of the date and time Mrs N contacted 
Commercial Legal.  This evidence is different  to the delay time given by Commercial Legal in 
response to the investigators findings. Ive taken the information most recently provided by 
Commercial Legal  as the evidence theyd like this service to consider when reaching a 
decision. 
Mrs N made  it clear  during the call that getting  a hire car sorted  as soon  as possible was her 
main priority. After discussing the circumstances of the accident, it was confirmed to Mrs N 
that her claim would be treated as non-fault. During the call Mrs N told the representative 
that the other driver  was trying to blame her for the accident. I can appreciate that the 
representative was just trying to say that he was sorry to hear what  had happened.  However 
I also think that the representative  shouldve  told Mrs N that the claim would be reviewed, 
and there  was a risk that it would be passed  back to Mrs Ns insurer if liability  was potentially  
in dispute. I think  providing this information during the initial  call wouldve helped to manage  
Mrs Ns expectations about  what could happen if liability was disputed later in the claim. 
Mrs N contacted Commercial Legal twice before being told that her claim had been passed  
to her insurer. From what Commercial Legal have said, Mrs N wasnt contacted  with an 
update on what  had happened, even though theyd already made  a decision not to proceed 
with the claim. 
I think Commercial  Legal  shouldve acted more promptly in letting Mrs N know that her claim 
had been passed to her insurer. Whilst this may still have caused Mrs N frustration, it 
wouldve allowed Commercial Legal the chance to explain their reasons,  without  Mrs N 
having to complain first about the delay  in not being  contacted. I think  Mrs N being  told 
during a call when she was chasing  for an update, made things worse. 
Ive considered whether £150  compensation is fair in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Overall, Id say it is. Mrs Ns decision to proceed  with Commercial Legal was largely  based  
on a hire car being guaranteed. She believed this would happen by continuing  her claim with 
Commercial Legal,  and there wasnt any indication during her call that there was a risk of the 
claim not going ahead as agreed. 
I accept that as liability was potentially in dispute, the claim had to be passed  to Mrs Ns 
insurer. But I think Commercial Legal shouldve told Mrs N at the first available  opportunity 
that there  had been a change to what was discussed, and agreed. I cant  see that this 
happened. Because of this Mrs N was unexpectedly told on a call she made chasing an 
update that her claim had been passed to her insurer. I think  this wouldve caused Mrs N 
Ref: DRN14615303upset and frustration,  and it feels fair for Commercial Legal to pay compensation in 
recognition of this impact.    
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ns complaint. 
Commercial Legal  Limited  should  pay Mrs N £150 to compensate her for the trouble and 
upset shes experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1461530