K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken out in 
2002 and 2009. Mr and Mrs A say Principality Building Society (PBS) mis-sold them  the 
PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2002. The policy  provided cover  for 
50% of the monthly benefit for each of them for claims for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly  amount for this cover.  If either of them had made a 
successful claim, the policy would have paid out the relevant proportion of the repayment 
benefit for up to 12 months. This policy was cancelled in 2007.
In 2009 Mr and Mrs A took out another PPI policy. As with the original policy  this also 
provided cover on a joint basis for accident, sickness  and unemployment and would have 
paid out the benefit  for up to 12 months. This policy was cancelled in early 2010.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs A disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs A have  said it was not made clear that the policies were  optional and they think  
the PPI was added without  their knowledge. PBS says the optional nature of the policies 
would have been made clear. In disputes  such as this, I need to decide what I think  is more 
likely to have happened.
For the 2002 sale, Ive been given a copy of the mortgage application form completed at the 
time and this includes a section  about PPI. In this section there are boxes to tick in order to 
accept or decline to take out the cover. On Mr and Mrs As form I can see the Yes box has 
been ticked stating  they wanted  to take out the policy.  If Mr and Mrs A didnt want to take out 
the policy they could have  ticked the no box. They have also signed  the application form 
which suggests they agreed with everything  that had been entered.  
Mr and Mrs A also completed a separate PPI application form, detailing the amount of 
benefit required and how this should  be split between  them.  If they didnt want this cover 
they could have left this form blank.
For the 2009 sale, PBS doesnt  have  any documentation from that time and, as they have no 
record of Mr and Mrs A making any changes to their mortgage in 2009, it says the policy  
must have  been  taken  out as a result of a direct request from Mr and Mrs A either to PBS or 
direct to the insurer. But it has provided a sample  of the application form which was 
applicable in 2009. I think its likely this would have been broadly the same  form as Mr and 
Ref: DRN13114012Mrs A would have completed. I can see from this sample form that information about who 
was to be insured  and the level of cover  required would need to be entered. And 
Mr and Mrs A would have been  required to sign the form to agree to take out the cover.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think PBS made  it clear  that the PPI was 
optional and that Mr and Mrs A agreed  to take it out, knowing they could refuse it if they 
didnt want it.
PBS didnt recommend the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs A so it didnt  have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs A got the information they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information PBS gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover in both 2002 and 2009. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time of 
the sales it doesnt look like they were affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the 
PPI cover - so it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks  like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Mr and Mrs A have  said Mrs A was a full time student so she wouldnt have had any work 
commitments that would affect  their income.  But from the information provided, Mrs A was 
working in both 2002 and 2009, although I understand this may have been part time at the 
point of the 2009 sale  so she would have received some benefit from the policy.  As this 
policy was sold on a non-advised  basis it was for Mr and Mrs A to decide if the policy was 
right for them based on what  they knew of their circumstances and it would appear they 
thought it was right for them as they decided to include Mrs A on the policy. So this doesnt  
change my decision.
Which means PBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
But PBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A because:  
PBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs A about that. Because PBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, PBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Mr and Mrs A say there have been  other court  cases  in relation to non-disclosure of 
commission where consumers have received everything back. So they think PBS should  
refund all of the money paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs As complaint is the law. But I also need to take into 
account relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN13114013In this case PBS has made Mr and Mrs A an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr and Mrs A 
want PBS to do something different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs A and their complaint to see if 
theres anything about  them that would mean  the business should  do something different  if 
the remedies set out in the FCAs rules  dont lead to fair and reasonable redress  for 
Mr and Mrs A. But there isnt anything about  Mr and Mrs As complaint or circumstances that 
suggest the redress paid by PBS isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think PBSs offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
what the business needs  to do
PBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs A any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. PBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs A any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
PBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs A the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. PBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs A 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs A can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Principality Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
But Principality Building Society does have  to pay back  to Mr and Mrs A any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1311401