K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs K took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1995.  Mr and Mrs K paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr K only, in case he 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ks case.  
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Ks PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Halifax dont have the original documents from the sale,  which  is unsurprising given  just how 
long ago it was, and that the policy and mortgage have long since  finished.  Indeed,  Halifax 
were required  under data protection regulations to dispose of the documents rather than 
hold onto them indefinitely,  so I cant fairly  hold that against it. Mr and Mrs K dont remember  
buying PPI, which I also think is understandable given how much  time has passed,  and 
since buying insurance is not often  memorable.
Ive thought carefully about whats most likely  to have happened given the limited information  
I have. It would have  been a very serious failing for Halifax to have added the PPI without  
Mr and Mrs Ks permission, or to have  misled them about it being compulsory. And I have no 
evidence which shows thats what Halifax did, so I dont think  it would be fair to conclude  
thats what happened. Nor have I seen  any wider problems with their sales  process  from the 
time. I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs K wouldve been  given  a choice about buying 
PPI, and chose  to take it at the time  even if, understandably, they no longer  remember  
doing so.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr K, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr K wasnt  
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. His employment contract said 
he had some sick pay that was limited  to a period not defined  in the contract. Whereas  the 
PPI covered his mortgage payments or up to a full year in any one claim, which was 
probably significantly more comprehensive,  given how long employers usually paid sick pay 
for. And Mr K didnt have any other cover in place in case he lost his job, such as insurance 
or redundancy provisions,  which  potentially  left him at a serious risk.
Ref: DRN16443842I understand Mr and Mrs K had some savings, but without PPI those wouldve been  needed  
to cover all their living costs  not just the mortgage   if Mr K lost his job or once his sick pay 
ran out. So the savings  wouldnt  have  lasted that long. And the PPI meant Mr and Mrs K 
could protect their savings  and use them  for other things.  Further, the mortgage was a very 
significant, long-term commitment. At the time of the sale,  there was no guarantee that the 
savings would still be there years down  the line  this is something one can only know  in 
hindsight. I also understand that Mr and Mrs Ks family wouldve been happy  to help. But 
there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed,  and this policy  meant 
Mr and Mrs K wouldnt have  to rely on their family  to make  their mortgage payments. Its 
worth bearing in mind  that the mortgage was Mr and Mrs Ks responsibility, so I dont think it 
wouldve been suitable for Halifax to advise them to rely on someone else.  Further,  Mr K 
was the sole earner here, and if Mr and Mrs K fell behind on their mortgage payments they 
risked losing their home. So overall,  I think the PPI couldve been useful for them in 
protecting their home and giving  some  peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs K about  PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr K wasnt  affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs K in case  
something went wrong. So I dont think that better  information was likely  to have put them  off 
taking out the cover.
Lastly, I take Mr and Mrs Ks point  that other PPI policies had been  mis-sold in other cases.  
But we look at each  case on its own merits. Not every PPI policy was mis-sold, and in this 
particular case I think its most likely  that this one was not mis-sold.
my final decision
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs K, I dont uphold their complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax), for the reasons Ive explained above. This final decision 
marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1644384