1complaint
Mrs S asked a third party to help her investigate whether she had been  miss-sold PPI by Barclays 
Bank UK Plc (Barclays).  The third party took Mrs Ss complaint to Barclays who upheld her 
complaints. It awarded the compensation directly to Mrs S as they thought  the letter of authority 
supplied by the third party  referred to a different business entity of Barclays  than that part of Barclays 
that was considering these complaints.    
The third party found out about  the payment and asked Mrs S to pay them  the fees shed agreed to 
previously. Mrs S paid the fees.
Mrs Ss complaint is about Barclays. She thinks that if the letter of authority wasnt properly completed 
they shouldnt  have told her chosen representatives about the compensation she had received. Mrs S 
also thinks Barclays told her the payments were as a result  of an earlier complaint shed made and 
not because of the complaint brought by her representatives. And that during a telephone 
conversation Barclays  had offered to deal with the third party  to resolve  the issue. Mrs S thought she 
was told she wouldnt have to pay the fee to the third party. Mrs S said that Barclays later changed  
their position.  
The adjudicator thought  the complaint should not be upheld.  Mrs S disagreed. And so the case has 
come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  Mrs Ss 
case.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what I think is relevant.  If I 
dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think 
I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.
Having considered all the submissions made to me Ive reached the same conclusion  as our 
adjudicator and for the same  reasons,  so Im proceeding to a final decision in this case. Im not 
upholding Mrs Ss complaint but I am awarding a payment  for her distress and inconvenience in 
bringing the complaint. Ive explained why below.
Mrs S asked the third party to raise a complaint about the policies, and it did so. Mrs S was fully 
compensated for the miss-sale of those policies.  And Mrs S paid the third party  as she had agreed to 
do. Mrs S says that her complaint is not about having to pay the third party  her complaint  is with 
Barclays and its service  to her. 
Mrs S says that she was told by Barclays that her complaints about  her PPI policies had been upheld  
as a result  of an earlier complaint she had made to Barclays four years earlier.  Barclays havent  been 
able to provide  copies  of the telephone conversations it had with Mrs S. Barclays  have been able to 
provide call notes  for those exchanges. The call notes  do not support the version  of events that Mrs S 
has given us. So, on balance Ive seen insufficient evidence to find that the compensation  was paid as 
a result of an earlier complaint.
Mrs S told Barclays she was unhappy  theyd shared information with her representatives about the 
compensation awards they had made her. Because Barclays  had told Mrs S that the third party  had 
not completed the letter of authority with complete accuracy. Mrs S says that Barclays said they would  
sort things  out with the third party,  which she understood to mean that she wouldnt have to pay the 
fees to the third party. The call notes supplied  by Barclays  do not support that version  of events. 
Ref: DRN14747732Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, or where the evidence differs a bit, as it does 
here, I need  to make  my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider 
what I do have, look at what  both sides have said, and make a decision based on what  I think most  
likely happened.
In this case, the third party put on its letter of authority the name of a part of Barclays  that was 
deemed by Barclays to be a distinct business unit. And so Barclays felt the letter  of authority  was not 
sufficient for it to correspond with/deal directly with the third party.  But the letter  of authority clearly 
showed there was a relationship between  Mrs S and her third party. Barclays  did not think this 
invalidated Mrs Ss wishes to be represented in her complaint as Barclays wrote  to Mrs S explaining 
that until they received a correctly named letter of authority they would be writing to Mrs S directly. So, 
Barclays does not consider  that in sending the information about the outcomes of her complaints to 
the third party  that it failed  to take adequate care with her data.  I tend to agree. 
In any event, it is not the case, that if I identified a failing in what  Barclays  did, that redress  would  be 
payable automatically.  I have to consider what would have happened,  most likely, had it not been for 
that failing. Had things happened  as Mrs S intended,  Mrs S would have heard about the 
compensation from the third party and paid them in accordance with whatever agreement  she made 
with them.  
So, even if there  were failings by Barclays, the outcome is exactly as Mrs S had hoped it would be 
when she initially instructed the third party to act on her behalf  in that they brought a complaint  for 
her to a business, and received information  about the compensation that became payable.  So, whilst 
there may or may not have been a failing in this case, I do not think  that Mrs S has suffered any 
detriment as a result.  So, I do not uphold her complaint and I do not think  that Barclays  has to repay  
the fee Mrs S paid the third party.  
Ive thought about everything that Mrs S told us, but they dont change  my decision.  
But Barclays  has agreed to pay Mrs S £100  in view of any distress or inconvenience that Mrs S may 
have suffered during the course of her complaint  with them.  Having reviewed the case  again, I havent  
seen sufficient evidence  that any larger sum would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances. So, if it 
hasnt already done so, Barclays can make that payment to Mrs S if she signs the agreement to the 
decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint against  Barclays  Bank UK Plc. But I 
do award Mrs S £100 for the distress and inconvenience in bring her complaint to Barclays Bank UK 
Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject  my 
decision before  7 March  2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1474773