K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1992. The store account itself was opened 
in 1987.
The policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100  Mrs S owed on her store card.  The policy  
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs S couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasoning below.
Mrs S PPI policy was sold over the phone.  FICL hasnt been  able to provide a phone  call 
recording or call script  - although this isnt surprising considering  the length of time since the 
sale. I have limited information available to me so have to decide whats  more  likely to have 
happened based on the information I do have. As the credit  card account had been set up 
some five years before the policy was sold  I think Mrs S wouldve known the policy  was 
optional. I also note that Mrs S says the PPI was added  without  her knowledge. But without 
further evidence  to support what shes told us, I think its more likely  she chose to take it out 
 although I can understand  why she cant remember this.
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs S and I think  thats likely to be right. So it 
didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need  to make sure it gave 
Mrs S clear enough information about the policy to enable her to decide for herself if she 
should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs S 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or an existing  medical condition.
Mrs S has told us that she wouldve received some sick pay if she was off work sick. The PPI 
would have paid out on top of any employee benefits she wouldve received and until she 
Ref: DRN11213132was able to return  to work, or until the outstanding  balance was cleared  whichever  came  
first. And the policy would cover the same term if she was to lose her job. So I still think  the 
policy couldve been useful to her. And overall, when taking into account  everything Ive seen 
and been told, I dont  think  Mrs S has lost out as a result of anything  FICL did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1121313