K822xcomplaint
Ms R is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled her car insurance claim. She 
said they didn't  progress  her claim and raised her premiums after an accident. Shes asked 
that AXA deal with her claim and, more recently, to refund her premiums.
background 
Ms R had a minor car accident  in September 2017. Shes told us that another  vehicle  hit the 
rear of her car, causing damage. She says she gave AXA all the relevant details but they 
didnt progress her claim and, even after numerous  calls and emails, didnt do anything.
In 2018, following the renewal of her policy, Ms R noticed her premiums had increased. She 
called AXA and says she was told the rise was due to the accident  and her outstanding 
claim. But Ms R told us that AXA hadnt done anything  about her claim. Her car was still 
damaged and she couldnt  close the rear boot. And increasing her premium made the policy  
no longer affordable. So she changed insurers. She repeatedly asked AXA to sort out her 
claim and get her car repaired.  Ms R says she had to drive  around in a damaged  car and 
has been caused distress and inconvenience  by the lengthy delays. Ms Rs car was later 
written off after a separate incident  in November 2018, so can no longer be repaired.
Ms R complained to us in February 2018.  In June,  after being  prompted by us, AXA 
apologised for the on-going delay. They told Ms R theyd provide a final response letter but 
also pointed her towards our service.  Ms R remained dissatisfied  with AXAs handling  of her 
claim so referred her complaint to us.
In August  2018,  in its final response letter, AXA accepted they hadnt  dealt  with Ms Rs claim 
proactively or kept her updated. They apologised and offered  her £250 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  this had caused. They  also agreed to waive her excess  of 
£250 because  of the lack of progress theyd made.
In September  2019, one of our adjudicators  sent out her first view. Shed asked AXA to 
provide their case file, but they hadnt done  so. So, her view was based on the information 
available to her at the time from both parties. The adjudicator thought AXA hadnt  acted  fairly  
and she upheld Ms Rs complaint.  She said AXA should treat Ms Rs original claim as non-
fault, allow her No Claims Discount and refund  any extra premium she paid as a result  of it 
being reduced and refund any cancellation fee charged. She also said AXA should  pay £300 
for the distress and inconvenience Ms R had experienced as a result of their poor service. 
She also said they should calculate and pay out a reasonable  amount to cover the cost of 
repairing the damage to Ms Rs car.
After AXA provided  Ms Rs file, our adjudicator  wrote  a further view. Having reviewed the file, 
she said Ms Rs complaint should still succeed  but her conclusions differed. She said she 
was satisfied that AXAs offer of £250.00 for the distress and inconvenience  was reasonable. 
She also said AXA should treat Ms Rs claim as notification  only. And AXA should  confirm 
this so Ms R could tell her new insurer, with a view to receiving a refund of any extra  
premium shed paid as a result of them recording it as a claim. She also explained it would 
be the decision of the new insurers whether to retrospectively reduce Ms Rs premium, but if 
they didnt do this AXA should  refund the difference plus interest. The adjudicator still 
thought AXA should refund any cancellation fee theyd charged  when Ms R cancelled  her 
policy. She then suggested that if her new insurer had deducted anything as a result of the 
Ref: DRN12899282previous damage  to her car when they paid out following it being  written off, then AXA 
should reimburse this, plus interest.
In response, AXA agreed to record Ms Rs claim  as notification only. They  also confirmed Ms 
R hadnt cancelled  her policy, it had lapsed  at renewal, so no charge applied.  But AXA 
disagreed with the last point. They said that Ms R could have had her car repaired with them 
but hadnt done so. So, they didnt see why they should be liable for any deductions. 
The case  was taken  over by one of our investigators and he felt what AXA had suggested  
was reasonable  and wrote to Ms R to explain this. Ms R said all she wanted was a return of 
the premium shed paid to AXA because  they didnt investigate or progress her claim which  
is why shed paid it. Shed been  left for two years  and had to drive around in a damaged 
vehicle while AXA had increased her premium, which  led to her changing  insurer.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
AXA agreed to waive Ms Rs excess. But, in the event, as Ms R never paid her excess there 
was no excess to waive. AXA have  also confirmed there was no cancellation fee. So I dont 
need to consider these issues further. 
Distress and inconvenience
I see from AXAs file that after her accident  in September 2017, Ms R chased her claim by 
email in November  2017  and January and February  2018. Ms R approached us in February 
2018 but even by June,  AXA still hadnt contacted her or progressed  her claim. In fact, they 
didnt write  to her until August 2018,  when they accepted they hadnt dealt with Ms Rs claim 
proactively or kept her updated. They apologised,  offered her £250 in compensation and 
said theyd waive her excess. This is not in dispute.  But because  this was an extremely 
lengthy period  of delay in which Ms R was left without the professional  service  shed paid for 
and, and almost no contact whatsoever, for 11 months, and her was accident recorded as a 
claim as well, she was clearly  caused great distress and inconvenience. So, I think a total of 
£400 in compensation for this would be fair and reasonable.
The accident  giving rise to Ms Rs claim against  AXA
AXA has already  agreed to treat Ms Rs claim as notification only and I agree it should  do 
this. But Ms R should also confirm with her new insurer  that this has been  taken  into account 
because this is a decision for the new insurers. And, Ms R should reclaim this sum if 
appropriate. And Ive already addressed this from the aspect of the distress and 
inconvenience it caused, above.
Ref: DRN12899283Repayment of premiums
But AXA still hadnt  settled Ms Rs original claim, which was all she really wanted. She 
wanted her car repaired, or the cost of having her car repaired.  Instead, she was forced to 
drive around  for months in a damaged  vehicle  while AXA didnt progress her claim and 
ignored her attempts to contact them.
Ms R has asked for her premiums to be returned between  the time of the accident in 
September and the point at which she let her policy lapse. Because  AXA werent providing 
the service shes said she was paying  for. But I dont agree. Although AXAs  service was 
very poor  and theyve admitted this - they were still providing  insurance cover for Ms R. 
Because thats what she was paying for. So, Im satisfied that a total of £400  for distress and 
inconvenience is appropriate.
Cost of repair
AXA have said that Ms R could have had her car repaired with them but hadnt  done so. But 
from what Ive seen,  AXA dont appear  to have  made substantive contact (if any) with Ms R 
in the 11 months  between  the accident  and August 2018 when they finally  wrote to her. If 
she wasnt able to receive the basic  service  from AXA, I dont see how they can say she 
should have allowed them to repair her car. They didnt  even contact her until after wed 
intervened. And then Ms Rs car was written off in another, unconnected  accident. So, I dont 
think its either fair or reasonable of them to say this.
And I do think that if AXA had dealt with Ms Rs claim in a timely manner, they would have 
paid out on the costs  of repairing Ms Rs car. And its only because events intervened and 
the car was written  off beyond repair that they didnt. And but for this, I think  they ought  to 
have calculated and paid out a reasonable cost for repairing the damage to Ms Rs car under 
the terms of her policy. As it was, Ms R agreed  a valuation with her new insurer of £683.
Ive checked four online commercial guides for November 2018 when Ms Rs car was written  
off to see whether  this figure was full market value or reduced to take into account  the 
damaged boot. And, based on these, I think that £683 is fair and reasonable because  this is 
in line with the guides valuations for a similar vehicle without a damaged boot.
So, I dont think Ms R has lost out here. And I wont  be asking AXA to do anything else on 
this point.
the response to my provisional  decision
AXA agreed with my provisional decision.
Ms R responded saying  she agreed  with everything in my provisional decision.  She did, 
however, repeat how unfair she thought it was, given the all premium shed paid and AXAs  
actions in the light of the guarantees theyd originally offered. So, she felt she hadnt  
received a fair return.
And now the case has been passed  back to me to for a final decision.
Ref: DRN12899284my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
Although Ms R felt she hadnt received a fair return on her premium under the 
circumstances, as Ive already explained,  the money shed paid had still provided her with 
insurance cover throughout the term of her policy even though AXAs actions  were  poor.
So, in view of the response to my provisional decision, Ive no reason to depart from the 
findings Ive already reached in this case.  So, my decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Rs complaint and I 
direct that AXA Insurance UK Plc:
pay Ms R £400 in total,  so less whatever has already been paid, in compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 October  2020.
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1289928