K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS)  mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ws credit card account when he applied for the card by post.  
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mr W disagreed. 
His representative said, on his behalf  and in summary, that Mr W wouldve been able to 
meet his credit card repayments if he couldnt  work  because he was entitled to generous  
sick pay from his employer. He wouldve declined the PPI if hed known it was optional and if 
the costs and benefits had been  made clear.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint because:
The credit card application form doesnt  specifically  say that PPI is optional. But I consider it 
is reasonably clear,  from the need to tick a box, that it was not a requirement of applying  for 
the credit  card.  And I do note from the application form that Mr W declined  to take out other 
insurance, (card registration cover) at the same  time. This suggests to me that he 
understood he was free to make  his own choice. So, overall, I think  RBS made Mr W aware 
that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it  although I can understand why he 
can no longer remember  this.
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  have 
been. But Mr W chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr W would have made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  he would still 
have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ws comments,  including what his representative said about 
his entitlement  to generous sick pay  its told us he wouldve received six months full pay 
followed by six months  half pay. The PPI wouldve covered  him for up to 12 months, so 
couldve been a useful benefit in addition to his existing arrangements,  particularly if hed 
had a period of prolonged absence when he might only have been  receiving  half pay. The 
PPI also covered him if he became unemployed. So this doesnt change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN12798702my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1279870