K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2002. Mrs E says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Halifax nor Mrs E have  provided  any additional comments for me to consider. As I 
havent received  any new information  which requires comment, I see no reason to change  
my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17387572copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in
2002. Mrs E says Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mrs Es case.
I dont intend to uphold Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs E didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out 
 although I can understand why she cant remember  this. I say this because Ive seen a copy of the 
credit card application form which was completed during the meeting she had in branch and a printed 
cross has been placed in the box next to the credit  card repayment insurance   the name used  by 
Halifax for PPI. Mrs E has signed and dated  the form.
Whilst the cross has been pre-printed on the form, I think its likely  this answer  would have 
reflected the conversation she had with Halifax  in the meeting. So, on balance, I think  Halifax made  
Mrs E aware that the policy  was optional  and she chose to take it, knowing she could refuse it if 
she didnt want it.
Mrs E has told us that she felt pressured into signing the forms. She said that she felt that she had to 
take it out in order to get the finance. Ive thought very carefully about what she has said but I havent 
seen anything  in the paperwork which  states that the policy  was mandatory or that her choice could  
affect the application  for the card. And Ive noted that the form included other additional  products 
which Mrs E didnt take out so it seems that she made a specific choice to take out the PPI. So 
without any other evidence to show what
Halifax did or said to put pressure on Mrs E, I cant fairly uphold the complaint  on this basis.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs E so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she 
wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such as having 
unusual working arrangements.
Mrs E has told us that she was suffering from an ongoing medical condition at the time of taking 
this policy.  This policy  didnt  provide cover for any claims  which arose  from pre-existing conditions  
and so its likely Mrs E wouldnt have  been able to make a claim if she was off work due to this 
condition. Ive noted that Mrs E has told us that the condition was under control with medication 
and that her work had never been affected. Based on what she has told us, I think it is unlikely 
that Mrs E would have expected to have been off work  for any lengthy period of time as a result of 
this condition and so I dont think  that this exclusion would have  impacted her decision  to take out 
the policy.
This policy would have  paid out for up to 12 months if Mrs E had been unable to work due to 
accident, sickness or if she had lost her job. From what she has told us, Mrs E would have received 
six months full pay, followed by six months half pay from her employer if she was too ill to work. As 
this policy would have  paid out in addition  to, and potentially for longer than, her full sick pay, I think 
this could  have been a useful benefit to her.
Ref: DRN17387573Mrs E has told us she could have relied  on family  to help her if she was unable to meet her 
repayments. Whilst I appreciate that her family  would have wanted to help, their support cant 
always be guaranteed as their circumstances  can also change, meaning they are unable to provide 
such financial  assistance. So this doesnt make a difference to my decision.
Its possible the information  Halifax gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. 
But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would  
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have  put her off taking out the cover.
This means  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything Mrs E 
paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs E back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs  to do anything more.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN1738757