K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way National Savings and Investments has dealt with him and says 
the compensation its offered isnt enough.
background 
Mr S complains that NSI couldnt locate  his savings certificates valued at £30,000. They 
were only found in a holding  account  some months  later after hed complained. Hes also 
unhappy with the way NSI handled him in a number of respects and says it has a bad 
system. He wants £1,000  compensation  for the four months of stress and inconvenience  
hes been caused. He says NSIs offer of £100 isnt enough.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. In summary she said NSI was given 
numerous opportunities to trace Mr S certificates.  But there was significant  delay  and it took 
nearly four months to locate them.  NSI couldve resolved things sooner. Mr S is a pensioner 
reliant on these funds and as he doesnt work he cant earn this money again. He was 
caused distress for four months when he thought his £30,000 was missing. NSI should pay 
him a total of £300 compensation for this. 
NSI has agreed to do so.
Mr S remains unhappy with the way NSI has dealt  with him and says £300 compensation 
isnt enough. He believes the minimum compensation for all the stress  of NSI seemingly 
losing his £30,000, losing correspondence  and dealing  with him poorly should be £1,000.  
But he says if it helps  reach a resolution  he would accept £700. Hes asked for an 
ombudsman review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided detailed submissions to support  his complaint. Ive read and considered  
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think is now the main issue.
Its clear NSI shouldve dealt with Mr S better. Through no fault of his, it couldnt locate his 
savings certificates valued at £30,000. And it eventually took it about four months  to find 
them in a holding  account. During  that time Mr S spent many  hours  on the phone to NSI. 
And understandably he was very worried about his investment fearing it had been  lost. This 
was particularly distressing for him as hes a pensioner reliant  on the investment.
Mr S says this justifies an award  of £1,000  compensation although hes recently  said hed 
accept £700 to resolve matters. 
NSI originally offered  £100  compensation but has now agreed to increase this to the £300  
figure recommended by the adjudicator.
I understand Mr S frustration and strength of feeling. But I think  the amounts he seeks would 
be too much. 
Ref: DRN19033122Taking everything into account,  including the levels of award  we make,  I think a total of £300  
compensation is fair in this case for the distress  and inconvenience caused to Mr S over a 
four month period.  And I dont think I can reasonably require  NSI to pay or do any more. 
I dont see a compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right I think National  Savings and Investments  should, 
if it hasnt already done so, pay Mr S a total of £300  compensation.
NSI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr S accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year*  simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires NSI to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1903312