K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Miss K complain that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  them  a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C and Miss K took out a mortgage  with BoS in 2003. They were sold the PPI policy  in 
connection with this mortgage during a telephone  conversation at the same time.  
Although the mortgage was in both Mr C and Miss Ks names,  the PPI only covered Mr C. It 
would have provided a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months per claim if Mr C was off work 
sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr C and Miss Ks complaint should be upheld. Mr C and Miss K 
didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C and Miss Ks case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr C and Miss Ks complaint. I will now explain 
why.
BoS had to make it clear  to Mr C and Miss K that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could  be applied to the account.  Mr C and Miss K say they were completely  
unaware they had been  sold PPI. Mr C says that if he had known he had PPI, he would have 
made a claim when he was struggling to meet the repayments.
Of course,  I cant  know for sure what took place during  the sale. So Ive thought  about what  
the parties have  told us and looked  to the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more  likely  to have happened.
I understand from BoS that the PPI application  was a separate application and would have 
been completed after the mortgage application had been completed.  Ive seen a copy  of the 
confirmation of application  details form which would have been  sent to Mr C and Miss K 
following the telephone conversation to check,  sign and return. 
This form had a separate section relating to PPI and set out the details such  as the cost of 
the cover  and who was covered under the policy.  This appears  to have followed a discussion 
which would have taken  place on the phone as it states, you have requested ASU cover 
. Theres  nothing on this form which would indicate that PPI was compulsory. It was Mr C 
and Miss Ks responsibility at this point to check and sign this form. If they no longer wanted 
PPI, they could have  indicated  this on the form. However, Mr C and Miss K did not make  any 
changes to this section and signed this form. I also note that Mr C contacted the insurers  
about the policy in 2003 and 2004.
Ref: DRN19226042So while I appreciate what Mr C and Miss K say about not being aware they had been sold 
PPI, given the evidence Ive seen,  I think they should have been aware they had been sold 
PPI. And I think that its more likely  that BoS made it clear to Mr C and Miss K that the PPI 
was optional and that they agreed  to take it out knowing they didnt have to. Of course, I 
understand that Mr C and Miss K may now not recall this given the length of time since the 
sale.
I appreciate that Mr C and Miss Ks main  complaint  point is that they were unaware they had 
been sold the policy. Ive found  that its more likely they were aware. So Ive gone on to 
consider other aspects  of the sale to check if there  is any other reason that Mr C and Miss K 
may have  been  mis-sold PPI. 
First of all Ive considered whether Mr C was eligible  for the policy.  Based on Mr Cs age, 
residence and employment,  Im satisfied he was eligible for the policy.  So the policy  wasnt 
mis-sold in this respect  either.  
BoS accept they advised  Mr C and Miss K to take PPI. So they had to take adequate steps 
to ensure the PPI was suitable for them. Having considered  Mr C and Miss Ks 
circumstances at the time of the sale, I think the PPI was suitable. I say this because:
-Mr C has told us he wasnt entitled  to sick pay from his employer  (other  than statutory 
sick pay) at the time of the sale. And I cant see that he had any other  cover  in place. 
The PPI was protecting a valuable asset  and would have covered the mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months  per claim if Mr C was of work sick. It would also 
have covered the repayments for the same  amount of time if he lost his job. 
-Mr C didnt appear to have been  affected  by the main exclusions and/or restrictions 
in the policy. So it looks like he could have  made  a successful claim under the policy  
if the need arose.
-Mr C and Miss K could have cancelled  the policy at any time without losing out 
financially.
-I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  the PPI was unaffordable for Mr C and     
Miss K.
As well as checking the PPI was suitable  for Mr C and Miss K, BoS had to give Mr C and 
Miss K information in a clear, fair and non-misleading  way so that they could  make  an 
informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, this would have been 
information about the costs, benefits and main  exclusions in the policy.
I dont know if BoS gave Mr C and Miss K all of the information as they should have. This 
doesnt necessarily  mean  that the PPI was mis-sold as I have  to go on and consider whether 
better information would  have  put Mr C and Miss K off taking PPI out. I dont think  it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons that I think the PPI was suitable for them.
So I dont  think BoS mis-sold Mr C and Miss K this PPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr C and Miss Ks complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Ref: DRN19226043Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Miss K 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1922604