K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs financial  adviser complained - on their behalf  - that St. Jamess  Place  Wealth  
Management Plc didnt  give them the option of cancelling its recommended ISA transfers  
before they left the UK for Cambodia  for an extended period; and that they werent made 
aware of the charges until it was too late to cancel without incurring a financial  loss.
background
SJP did not uphold their complaint but said that as a gesture of goodwill it would refund its 
initial charges  and pay £250  for the trouble  and upset caused.
 
Mr and Mrs B did not accept this offer, saying they would incur a financial loss in transferring 
their ISAs back  to their old provider and wanted  SJP to pay this.
An adjudicator at this service  didnt think the ISA transfers were  necessarily unsuitable.  He 
also felt Mr and Mrs B were made aware of the initial charges along with the fact that the 
new investments might  not outperform the previous ones or even recoup the transfer costs. 
He pointed out that Mr and Mrs B wanted to end their relationship with their previous adviser 
and so were keen to move their investments elsewhere as a result.
They were  told there  would not be as wide a fund choice and that income had been stopped  
because of potential  CGT implications; and that Mr and Mrs B had no pressing need  to start 
income payments  up again.
The adjudicator ascertained that Mr and Mrs B met with the SJP adviser before they went  to 
Cambodia to discuss  the transfer charges. Although  they would only have had a few weeks  
in which  to cancel  the transfers,  he still felt it was reasonable to have expected them  to have 
done so before they went away if they were unhappy about  the charges.
Mr and Mrs Bs adviser did not agree. He made  the following points:
Mr and Mrs B are adamant they did not get any information about the option to 
cancel the plan and were never told they could do this before  they went away
They remember the SJP adviser coming  round but only to sign a blank letter, which  
they thought was strange; they were told this needed signing but were  never  told 
why; they never discussed the suitability  report in any detail or the advice given; and 
no paperwork was ever given regarding cancellation  options
They did not discuss the reports in any detail and the fees involved at any meetings 
until they queried it prior to going  to Cambodia. It was not until they returned and 
reviewed the statement did they realise  that over £5,000  had been taken from the 
investments as an initial  fee 
They contacted  the SJP adviser in April 2018 to confirm  the report  and the fees and 
were told they should have  read the report and it was their problem
They did not tell the SJP adviser when they were going away so he would not have 
been aware they wouldnt be in the UK to cancel the transfers  - and they did not have 
cancelation forms to do this anyway 
Ref: DRN18493492They did still want the income but were  told they could not have it
They feel the SJP adviser is making  up the discussions that allegedly took place 
during meetings to fit the advice; based  on their age, health and lack of 
understanding of the advice and fees they should not have been advised to make 
these transfers in the first place 
SJP replied, saying  it was slightly odd that the original complaint  letter  dated 4 May 2018 
said Mr and Mrs B were  out of the country  from October 2017  until April 2018  yet they refer 
to a meeting at their house on 15 December  2017. Given this disparity, it spoke  to their 
advisor, who said:
Mr and Mrs B received the Key and Supplementary  information Documents at the 
point of sale in a face-to-face meeting, the pack included  their cancelation rights 
document
The suitability letter stated the charges and said they could leave the investments 
with Aviva and not transfer them if they wished.  This was at point of sale,  and this 
document was left with them
He told them they could cancel within a certain  period and referred  them to the 
charges in the SL Illustration along with the Key and Supplementary Information 
documents - and it is hard to believe  they are saying this did not happen
 Mr Bs certificate was dated 7 January 2018 and Mrs Bs even  earlier so both would 
have been received  before they went away
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Its important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide  whether a 
business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake, not whether it might have done 
things differently (such as made a different  recommendation).
In this context I do not think  there is sufficient evidence to safely  conclude  that the advisor 
did offer poor or unsuitable advice, or did anything wrong.
Further, when assessing the contradictory  claims of two parties (as is often the case) I need 
to reach  a decision,  on the balance of probabilities,  as to whose recollections are more likely 
than not to be accurate, based on the available evidence, along with my experience and 
judgment. 
In this case Mr and Mrs B were experienced investors, having had at least  three  different 
financial advisors dating back more than a decade.  Given  this I am satisfied they would, or 
ought to have, read at least key sections of SJPs initial report,  recommendations and 
subsequent paperwork.
Ref: DRN18493493These reports collectively  make clear many  of the key points  Mr and Mrs B say they were 
not told about along with offering  an explanation  of their alleged needs and objectives; for 
example:
The advisor said they were happy to commit to medium  to long-term  investments  
(five to 15 years) as they wanted their son to eventually inherit this money. If this was 
not true I would have expected Mr and Mrs B to question this was clearly a crucial  
reason for recommending the switch to new longish term investments given their 
ages
He noted that Mr and Mrs B had stopped taking income from their Aviva ISAs  due to 
CGT concerns and did not wish to restart income payments  at this time
He pointed out that the new products had access to a fewer range of funds than their 
existing investments
He said there would be initial charges and spelt these out
He said the plans being replaced could have been left intact and this would have 
avoided charges on transfer
Having considered all the evidence available,  including the advisors handwritten note as of 
his recollections, I think it is unlikely that he told Mr and Mrs B there would be no initial  
charges, particularly given this was clearly not the case.
I also think that given  Mr and Mrs Bs considerable experience they ought  reasonably  to 
have realised there would  be initial charges given that this is the basis  for many large 
financial advice businesses such as SJP. Further, the charges were clearly  spelt  out in the 
documentation they were given. For example, re one product:
Our advice  is not free. The cost of the initial advice and our services will be 2,275. 21 
which is 3.15% of the investment shown.  This cost covers  all of our expenses  incurred in 
providing, checking and guaranteeing the suitability of your advice. The remuneration of your 
Partner's practice is only One element of this cost, from which they meet their own business 
expenses.
Further documents also refer to the fees.
Overall, I do not believe that there is sufficient, persuasive evidence  to support any of the 
complaint points made. I can see no reason  why the advisor would not have given 
Mr and Mrs B a copy of their cancellation  rights, something which he said was part of the 
standard pack given  to all clients. 
I also think Mr and Mrs B would have known, given their long history,  they were  entitled to 
such a document.  I also think  they would, on balance, have known they had the right to 
cancel their investments  within a cooling-off  period and so ought to have rung the advisor  if 
they had not been  given such paperwork or had changed their mind  about investments.
I have read the extensive correspondence concerning whether  Mr and Mrs B were given 
sufficient time and help to decide whether to go ahead before they went  to Cambodia. 
Ref: DRN18493494Having read this, I am not persuaded that they were  unable to make  a fully informed 
decision as to whether  go ahead  with these recommendations.
Overall, I have  seen no persuasive evidence to indicate that SJP did anything  wrong. It is, 
therefore, not for me to say whether it should  pay the amount offered before this complaint 
came to this service.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1849349