K821x#15complaint
Mr U complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Very) has refused his claim 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty  goods.  He 
wants a refund of the cost price and compensation for consequential losses.
background
Mr U is represented in this complaint by a family member.  But for ease of reading  Ill mostly 
refer to Mr U.
Mr U tells us that in April 2018 he purchased a fridge freezer  from Very. He states he 
reported a fault in July 2018.  He said that an engineer inspected  the item and advised  there  
was a faulty compressor which  could be repaired.  But he says the engineer  recommended  
that he (Mr U) should get a new product. He says the engineer then submitted  a report 
claiming that Mr U had refused the repair. Something which  Mr U disputes. Mr U explains 
that he suffered  consequential losses as a result  of the freezer  defrosting  and causing the 
contents to be lost.
Very told us that as the fault had been reported more  than 30 days after supply it was 
entitled to an opportunity  to repair it. It said that in order to reassess the issue further Mr U 
would have to obtain an independent  report to show there was a manufacturing fault. It 
offered to refund the cost of the report up to £45 if such  a fault was found.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 June  2020.  I said that I intended to 
uphold the complaint. And that I thought  that Mr U should be able to reject the goods and 
receive compensation. I said that Very shouldnt  have  required Mr U to provide further  proof 
once it had been established the fridge  was faulty.  As repairs had been delayed  for almost 
two years I indicated that I considered that this had resulted  in unreasonable delay and 
inconvenience to Mr U.
Since then both parties have replied. Mr U disagreed  with the award of compensation (£75 
loss of fridge contents and £50 distress and inconvenience). He felt it should be at least  
£200 for the loss of the food contents and an increased amount for distress and 
inconvenience.
Very didnt agree that Mr U should be allowed to reject the goods. It said that in large part 
the delay had been caused by Mr U refusing to accept repairs.
I thank both parties for their responses. As no new information has been  provided Im not 
minded to change  my provisional decision. This is largely repeated in my final decision which 
is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14369402I recognise that Mr U has had to wait for far too long to have this complaint determined.  Its 
approaching two years since  the issue arose.  And it should have been a relatively 
straightforward matter to settle.
Under section 75, a consumer has the right in certain circumstances to make a claim against 
the provider of the credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the goods. And a breach of contract  might occur if goods supplied  werent  of 
satisfactory quality.
In summary,  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) states that in order to conform to contract  
goods should be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Where  goods dont conform to 
contract within the first six months  after supply then the consumer  has the right - subject to 
certain time limits  to reject the goods or require a replacement.  The short term right to 
reject usually needs to be exercised within 30 days after supply.  After  this the supplier 
should be given  the chance  to repair the goods.  And if the repairs arent  successful the 
consumer may then reject the goods.
I should explain that Im not deciding Verys liability under section 75 - only a court could do 
that. We take into account the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we decide  
cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What Im 
deciding is whether Very did enough in considering Mr Us complaint. And if it didnt,  what 
else it should now do. 
Where information is incomplete or facts are in dispute - as is the case  here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr U reported a fault with his fridge  freezer within three months of supply. Its not in issue  
that an engineer  inspected  the item and confirmed there was fault. What seems to have 
triggered the dispute is the alleged remarks  of the engineer to the effect that there was no 
guarantee the repair would be successful. Ive no reason  to doubt Mr Us recollection of what 
the engineer had stated. And in truth its no more than a fairly casual statement of the 
obvious. But perhaps not surprisingly it created a doubt in Mr Us mind to the extent  he 
wanted some reassurance.
During the set-up call for this complaint on 28 November 2018, Mr U explained that when he 
contacted Verys helpline hed agreed  to have the repairs carried out. But hed advised the 
call handler that he wanted an assurance  that - if these werent successful - he would be 
given a replacement.  Hes said that no such assurance was given. 
Ive not been supplied  with any recordings of relevant phone  calls. And the contact notes Ive 
seen naturally only provide a summary of the conversations. By their very nature summaries 
can sometimes miss an important  detail. I cant see any plausible reason why Mr U would 
simply refuse repairs as he would presumably want a freezer  in working condition as soon 
as possible. And its not apparent what he would be seeking reassurance  about if it wasnt  
repairs.
I think its more likely than not that a misunderstanding arose and that his seeking the 
additional reassurance  was treated as a refusal to accept repairs.
Ref: DRN14369403When Very responded  to our request for information about the complaint, on 3 December 
2018, it said that in order  for it to reassess  the issue further Mr U would need to provide an 
independent report  to show there  was a manufacturing fault. And it appears to have 
maintained this position throughout the complaint.
I dont accept that this is a correct application  of the CRA. Where goods dont conform to 
contract within six months of supply  the CRA presumes this to be the case  at the time of 
supply. Where the supplier maintains that goods did conform to contract at the date of 
supply then its for the supplier to establish that fact. And a relevant consideration in 
determining satisfactory quality would be the aspect of durability.
Very has relied on its engineers report to show the goods were capable  of being  repaired.  
But as that report  confirms the freezer wasnt working properly Mr U shouldnt have been 
required to provide any further proof  of when  the fault arose. The presumption  within  the 
CRA was sufficient. The request for the additional information seems to have created some 
uncertainty and confusion. I think its more probable than not that without this request the 
subsequent delay would have been avoided. 
As almost two years  have passed  since the original complaint was made, I need to take into 
consideration other provisions of the CRA.  This states that where repairs are needed, they 
should be carried out within a reasonable time. And without significant inconvenience to the 
consumer. Regrettably,  we are way beyond the point where either of those objectives might  
be achieved.
I anticipate my final decision will not be to the entire satisfaction of either party.  But Im 
required to determine  this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable.
Because of the delay Ive referred to, I intend to require Very to end the contract  in relation to 
the freezer and refund any payments  made. It wouldnt be fair and reasonable to require Mr 
U to accept the repair now. I also take into account that any warranty or insurance on the 
product would have  been  reduced or expired during the delay.
Im also not going  to award the level of compensation or consequential  losses sought by Mr 
U. Ill explain why.
Without documentary  information to show the losses caused by the defrosting  Im unable  to 
know precisely what these were. And usually its possible in the case of sudden defrosting  to 
use some  items of previously uncooked produce. As theres  a duty to mitigate loss Im not 
satisfied it was necessary  to dispose of all the items  in the freezer.
In summary  Im upholding the complaint. I find the goods werent  of satisfactory  when 
supplied. I find Very shouldnt have required Mr U to provide any further report  regarding  the 
fault with the goods. And that it shouldve recognised its liability due to the breach of contract  
arising from the goods not being  of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
Ref: DRN14369404my final decision
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I require Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
to take the following action:
1.End the contract  for the freezer with nothing for Mr U to pay;
2.Arrange collection  of the goods  at no cost to Mr U if the business  wishes to 
repossess the item;
3.Pay £75 towards consequential losses incurred by Mr U;
4.Pay Mr U £50 distress and inconvenience;
5.Refund to Mr U payments made on the agreement (if any) towards the cost of 
this item;
6.Remove all late or missed payment charges and/ or interest payments from             
Mr Us account which relate to this item;
7.Remove any details  of the payment  record in relation to this item from Mr Us 
credit file.
If any sums  arise out of item 5 then simple interest  at the rate of 8% per year should be 
added from date of payment  to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1436940