K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma)  has 
charged too much interest when it has provided  a settlement figure to him to repay  a loan.
background
In 3rd July 2018  Mr A took out a short term loan with Satsuma. He borrowed £200 and was 
due to repay this amount with interest  in monthly  instalments over 6 months. On 8th October 
2018, Mr A contacted  Satsuma and asked how much he would need to repay to clear  his 
balance. Satsuma provided him with a final settlement figure. Mr A has not paid this amount 
and has a balance  outstanding.
Mr A is unhappy at the amount of interest Satsuma  charged on the early  settlement  figure  
and says that it was too high. He says that when he asked for this settlement balance,  he 
was half way through his loan and so he should have been charged interest for that amount 
of time, on a pro-rata  basis. 
Satsuma disagrees with Mr A and says it made clear  in the terms of the agreement of the 
loan that the interest due would be charged  towards  the start of the loan. It doesnt think it 
has done anything  wrong.
One of our adjudicators has looked at Mr As complaint and did not uphold  it.
Mr A remains unhappy and so his complaint  has come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
inconclusive, I will reach my decision  on the balance of probabilities   in other words, what I 
consider is more likely than not to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the 
wider circumstances.
I have looked  into Mr As complaint and considered both parties recollections of what  
happened. In doing so, I am not going  to uphold Mr As complaint and I will explain why.
I can see that Mr A asked for an early settlement balance on 8th October 2018 and when he 
did, Satsuma gave  him a figure that he would  need to repay in order to clear  the amount 
owed on the loan. 
Mr A says that Satsuma  added too much interest at this point and should  have only added  
interest on a pro-rata  basis. But I cant see anywhere within  the documentation relating to 
this loan including the terms of agreement, that Satsuma was required to do this. 
Satsuma says they followed their terms of agreement and used this when it calculated        
Mr As settlement balance.  I cant see that it did anything wrong when it did this, on this 
occasion. So because  of this, I dont uphold  Mr As complaint.
Mr A has also mentioned that Satsuma has put on his credit  file that he has a late payment 
in relation to this loan. This is because  Mr A has an outstanding balance to repay. From what 
I have seen Satsuma  is still owed this amount by Mr A and so I think  it is entitled to provide 
Ref: DRN14355782information about this on Mr As credit file. I dont think it has done anything wrong here 
either.
In conclusion, I dont  uphold Mr As complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint and I dont require Provident Personal Credit  Limited  to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1435578