K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with Lex Autolease  
Ltd (Lex) has not been of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr M took receipt of a new car in April 2018. He financed the deal through  a hire agreement 
with Lex but the car developed a leak around the windscreen and this soaked the foot well. 
The dealership attempted  to repair the leak but the initial repair  failed and the car had to be 
returned for a further repair. The windscreen was replaced and a subsequent independent 
inspection has confirmed  that the repair appears to have been  successful.
Mr M was disappointed  that he was only offered £100 worth of retail  vouchers to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. He explained that he 
had been supplied with a courtesy car whilst  his was in the garage being  repaired but that 
the courtesy car was not of the same  standard as his own.  He said hed been without his car 
for a month in the first five months of ownership and he asked our service  to consider his 
complaint.
Our adjudicator noted that Mr M had initially asked to reject the car but he thought it fair to 
suggest a repair had been accepted as a resolution to the problem. He thought that Mr M 
had been inconvenienced  by matters and he didnt think  £100  of vouchers was sufficient 
compensation. He suggested that Lex pay £150 to compensate Mr M for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.
But Lex didnt agree with the adjudicators  view and they asked  for a final decision  by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Lex so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Lex, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
Ref: DRN13730342standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant  legislation  entitles Lex to an opportunity to repair the car if the fault was present 
or developing at the point of supply. Im persuaded that this fault was probably  developing at 
the point of supply because it occurred  so soon after the agreement started and also 
because it seems the problem was due to a folded  seal around the windscreen. I think its 
likely this could only have  been there  from the beginning  as Ive not seen evidence the 
windscreen had been removed previously.
Im persuaded that although  Mr M initially  wanted  to reject the vehicle its likely he did give 
approval for a second repair to be carried out. In those circumstances it would not be 
reasonable to allow  him to reject the vehicle now.
However, he has clearly been  inconvenienced by this matter. Hes not had the use of the car 
he was hiring for several weeks and hes had to attend two independent inspections and 
progress his complaint  to this service. I think, in the circumstances, the vouchers offered 
were not sufficient compensation for the distress  and inconvenience Mr M has experienced 
and I agree with the adjudicator that Lex should pay him £150 in compensation instead.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Lex Autolease Ltd to pay 
Mr M £150 to compensate  him for the distress  and inconvenience hes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1373034