K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought on behalf  of the late Mr S by the executors to his estate. I shall 
refer to the late Mr S as Mr S throughout my decision. 
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr Ss executors  say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him the PPI. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr Ss executors say he wasnt told he had a choice about  taking the PPI and that it 
would improve his chances of getting  credit. Ive seen  a copy of Mr Ss signed credit card 
application. And on it I can see a printed x next to where  it says Credit Card 
Repayments Cover. As the sale took place in one of Halifaxs branches, I think  it was 
added as a result  of the conversation Mr S had with the adviser. If Mr S hadnt  chosen 
PPI, I would have  expected  him to challenge why this had been agreed to or added to 
his agreement before he signed  for it.  All things considered,  I think  Halifax most  likely 
made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances, I think  that it was. Mr S was 
employed and would receive  some employee  benefits if he wasnt able to work. The 
policy would have  paid 10% of the outstanding balance  on his credit  card if he wasnt 
able to work  and for 12 months if he was sick and 10 months if he was involuntarily 
unemployed. The policy would have paid out over and above any employee  benefits he 
may have received.  So I think  it gave him a financial benefit he didn't  already have, in 
what could have  been a difficult time. 
Its possible  the information Halifax gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI 
cover  a pre-existing medical condition  as an example.  So it seems like it would have 
been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything the executors  have  said.  But because  of what  Ive already 
said, these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr Ss executors back some of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. 
Ref: DRN18558672If Halifax hasnt already done so it should  recalculate the compensation its offered and pay it 
to the executors of the late Mr S.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors of  
the late Mr S to accept  or reject my decision before 5 March 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1855867