K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  unfairly  rejected  an 
indemnity claim under  the Direct Debit Guarantee (DDG).
background
Mr and Mrs S have  experienced problems with their energy provider- a company I will call 
A. They say they have  been overcharged  and A has acted fraudulently  by taking their 
money without consent, sending  fake e-mails and by relying on documents it had falsified. 
Mr and Mrs S say they raised a dispute with Halifax about direct debit payments under the 
DDG and were temporarily refunded their money.  But Halifax  took their money  away  after A 
provided it with false backdated e-mails confirming they were given notice of changes  to the 
direct debit amount.
Halifax says its not made  a mistake and acted in line with the DDG.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold  it. The 
investigator thought  that the DDG couldnt  be used to address contractual  disputes between  
parties and that there was a clear  dispute  between Mr and Mrs S and A. The investigator 
didnt think Halifax could  fairly determine  if it had been given fraudulent evidence by A.
Mr and Mrs S dont  accept that view and maintain that A has acted fraudulently. They  would 
like the payments they say are in dispute refunded and compensation  paid to them.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for the same  reasons. I realise  Mr and Mrs S will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly they feel about  whats  happened. 
I also accept that this has been  a difficult time for both Mr and Mrs S and Im sorry to read 
about their health  concerns.
I make  it clear  to Mr and Mrs S that I can only look at the actions of Halifax  and I cant 
comment on what A may or may not have done. And I understand that Mr and Mrs Ss main 
complaint is about  A.
The DDG covers any errors in direct debits  and also provides guidance  to businesses using 
direct debits that any changes must be notified to customers in advance. But the DDG 
makes clear  that it cant be used to address contractual disputes between  parties. Ive 
looked at the many  documents and e-mail exchanges between the parties and I can see that 
Mr and Mrs S says that A has acted fraudulently and has falsified and backdated documents  
and e-mails which it has also given Halifax. So I have no doubt that there was and still is a 
contractual disputes here between Mr and Mrs S and A and that the DDG is not the correct 
or appropriate method of resolving it.
Im satisfied that Halifax acted fairly by refunding the disputed money until an investigation 
was carried out. I can see that A provided evidence  to Halifax  which suggested  it had told Mr 
and Mrs S about changes  to the amount collected by direct debit. I appreciate Mr and Mrs S 
say that was fraudulent backdated information. But I dont think  Halifax could  have known 
that and I dont think it acted unfairly  in those circumstances by rejected Mr and Mrs Ss 
DDG claim.
Ref: DRN19219122Overall I dont think Halifax  has acted  unfairly  or made a mistake here. I think  Mr and Mrs Ss 
main complaint is against A and I dont think the DDG could resolve  such a dispute.  I hope 
Mr and Mrs S understand the limitations  of the DDG and that they look to other avenues to 
resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this dispute.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1921912