K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a finance agreement he has with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Barclays Partner  Finance  (BPF),  was mis-sold to him.
background
Mr Cs son has represented his father throughout this complaint and I thank him for his 
submissions.
In July 2017 Mr C took out a fixed sum loan with BPF, to fund a new driveway.  The finance 
agreement was brokered by the supplier of the driveway, a company Ill call E.  
Mr Cs son, on behalf of his father, says the agreement was mis-sold as E didnt take 
account of his fathers personal circumstances. He says his father was frail and of ill health  
and wasnt able to understand  the implications  of entering into a finance agreement. 
Specifically, he says that he had the cash to pay for the work and didnt need to sign up for a 
five year finance agreement in which  hed need  to pay an extra  £6,516 in interest. Mr C paid 
the loan off early  in November 2017 and he raised a complaint to BPF.
They didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. They said they didnt discriminate on age and that 
having passed their affordability checks Mr C was given  the standard  14 day cooling off 
period within  which  he could have withdrawn from the agreement, but he didnt. 
So Mr C brought  his complaint to this service  and our investigator  provided an opinion.  She 
didnt think age automatically made someone  vulnerable. But she considered the medical 
evidence and Mr Cs sons testimony in which it was explained that Mr C had had a stroke  
and was slower in speech; less confident  at making  decisions; tired easily  and found  it 
difficult to concentrate. Whilst  she understand that E had said Mr Cs vulnerability wasnt  
apparent she explained  that they had a duty to ensure information was clear  and not mis-
leading and to explain the finance  options so Mr C could understand them.  She didnt think 
that had been the case.
So the investigator suggested  that BPF should  refund Mr Cs deposit; refund all payments 
hed made  to the agreement over and above  the £13,438 required to pay it in cash, and pay 
interest on any sum paid above that value.  She also thought Mr C had been inconvenienced 
by matters so she suggested  BPF should pay him £200 to compensate him for his 
experiences. 
BPF didnt  agree with the investigators view. They didnt agree that the medical evidence 
suggested Mr C was unable to understand financial information or that the loan had not been 
explained to him. They  said the details of the loan were clearly  set out in the finance 
agreement and they therefore  asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN12816462my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint BPF so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C paid for his driveway using  a fixed sum loan.  This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for 
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier (where  theres a borrower-
lender-supplier agreement as there  is here)  before the consumer  takes out the credit 
agreement.
So here BPF are responsible for what was said, or wasnt  said that should have been, by E 
when they established the loan with Mr C.
Im persuaded that Mr C is a vulnerable individual. I say that because Ive found  his sons 
testimony consistent with the subsequent medical evidence that has been provided. Its clear 
that Mr C has suffered a stroke and, it appears, some  damage  to the brain as a result.
BPFs representatives had a responsibility  to ensure there was an adequate  explanation of 
the finance made to Mr C so that he could  make a decision whether the agreement was 
adapted to his needs.
On balance, I dont  think that was likely to have  been the case.  I understand that the finance 
documents were  left with Mr C to review and that he could have changed his mind. I also 
understand that there was a £570  financial discount  offered if finance was taken out. But on 
the other hand:
Ive seen bank  statements  that show Mr C had the cash  available;
I think, with that amount of spare cash,  he would have been likely to be approved for 
a much cheaper bank  loan if credit was what he was looking for;
the medical evidence suggests Mr C would  have presented  as frail and I find Mr Cs 
sons suggestion that his father would therefore  have limited concentration to be 
persuasive. Id expect a business to take care to explain the documents  in those  
circumstances but Ive not seen evidence that suggests E took a different approach 
than they would normally do;
the discount Mr C received was a lot less than the interest he would have had to pay 
over the term of the agreement. I dont  think this would therefore  have persuaded him 
it was a sensible option if the agreement  had been  explained properly;
Ref: DRN12816463Mr C paid off his account in full in November 2017. I think  that suggests he didnt 
want to pay the interest on the account  and preferred to use cash. I think its likely  he 
would have wanted to do that when the deal was explained to him  if an adequate 
explanation was given;
there was a financial inducement for E to get Mr C to sign up for the agreement. Ive 
seen this was in the region of £2,700.
Overall, Im persuaded that its most likely this agreement was mis-sold to Mr C. 
So I am asking BPF to refund  any payments  Mr C has made in excess of what  it would have 
cost him to settle  the account  for cash (£13,438). They should  add interest to that refund as 
Mr C has been deprived of that money.  They should also refund Mr Cs deposit  and again 
add interest.
Im not persuaded, as the investigator was, that they should pay interest on the sum of 
£13,438 Mr C paid to them.  Mr C was never  deprived of this money. It was in his account. 
This has clearly been a distressing situation for Mr C and I can understand that BPFs 
actions would have  been inconvenient. In the circumstances I think BPF should compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced and Id agree with the investigator 
that £200 is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Clydesdale  Financial 
Services Limited to:
refund  Mr Cs deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum  from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund  all payments  made by Mr C above  and beyond  the cash settlement of 
£13,438. Pay 8% simple interest  per annum on these sums  from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr C £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1281646