K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about the inefficient way The Co-operative Bank Plc (the bank) dealt 
with (a) his request  to close  his savings account and with (b) his subsequent contact with the 
bank. 
background
Mr T gave  notice  to close his account.  The bank  wrote to him saying it needed evidence of 
his linked bank account. Mr T saw no need to provide this evidence, and he didnt provide 
it, saying the bank had confirmed it had accepted  the bank  account  as linked already.
The account  was eventually closed by cheque, rather than by a transfer  to the linked bank 
account. Mr T has complained about this as well as about:
the cheque  itself, the date of which had been amended by hand
his phone contact,  or lack of it, with the bank
the banks  delay in sending a closing statement
the time limit of 28 days the bank set on Mr T accepting its offer of compensation
the interest rate
the banks  delays in sending requested information to the ombudsman  service
The bank has accepted it made  mistakes  and has offered  to be accurate it has renewed its 
offer - to pay Mr T a further £150 compensation, which our two adjudicators who investigated 
the complaint  concluded was fair. 
Mr T disagreed. Hes indicated he would settle the complaint if the bank paid him an extra  
£350 compensation. 
Mr T has also queried why the ombudsman  service asked if the bank would pay £50 more  
compensation (than the extra £150 it had already offered to pay) but then didnt  insist  on the 
bank paying it. 
In their conclusions, the adjudicators found:
While  the bank  account may have been  linked, the bank still required evidence of 
the account.
The bank  could  have  handled the phone  contact and the closing statement better.
The bank  could  legitimately set a 28-day time limit on its offer of compensation.
The interest rate was a matter for the banks  commercial judgement.
While  the bank  had had to be chased  for replies  to our information  requests, the 
delays hadnt  been inordinate, nor had they adversely affected our investigation.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but I too have 
concluded the bank has made a fair offer of compensation.
There are two main possibilities regarding the linked  account. Either, as Mr T says,  it was 
already linked in such  a way that the bank ought to have carried out the closing transfer 
without more ado  in which case the bank was at fault because it said the account wasnt  
Ref: DRN18644322linked in such a way. Or, as the bank says,  the account wasnt sufficiently linked in which  
case the bank  was at fault for not ensuring that it was already sufficiently linked. 
In either  case (a) the bank  was at fault and (b) the inconvenience that Mr T suffered was the 
same. 
Apart from that, the normal  principle of mitigation applies, namely that a wronged party cant  
expect to be compensated  for harm that reasonable steps on his or her part would have  
avoided. Mr T chose  not to provide the bank with the evidence it had requested, after hed 
applied to close the account.  That was Mr Ts prerogative. But it seems to me that at least 
some of the aggravation Mr T later suffered  for example, the delay  in receiving the funds  
could have been avoided if Mr T had supplied  the bank with the evidence it said it required.
Subject to my comments above, Ive reached  broadly the same  conclusions as the 
adjudicators and for similar reasons. 
Regarding other points:
I dont criticise  the bank for initially setting a time limit on its offer of compensation. 
Theres nothing unusual  or illegitimate about  this. Mr T offered  the bank the chance 
to avoid an ombudsman case fee and associated  management time if it paid him an 
extra £350.  The bank  declined. The bank offered Mr T the time-limited  chance to 
receive an extra £150, whereas he might receive  less, or no more than hed already 
received, if he went to the ombudsman service. Mr T declined.
The ombudsman service doesnt  interfere in the interest rates that banks  set when 
exercising their legitimate  commercial judgement. 
I too havent concluded the bank caused  any inordinate or harmful delays to our 
investigation.
As the deciding ombudsman,  Im not bound  by what the parties or the adjudicator 
think about compensation.  I have to decide for myself what  I think fair compensation 
is. This may or may not coincide with what the parties or the adjudicator  think on the 
subject.
Ive concluded  an extra £150, making a total of £200, is fair compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience that Mr T unavoidably suffered through the banks actions  in relation to the 
closure of his account and subsequently.
Ref: DRN18644323my final decision
The Co-operative Bank Plc has made a fair offer of compensation, namely to pay Mr T an 
extra £150.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1864432