K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G) gave him 
inappropriate advice  in 1991 regarding the transfer  of his deferred pension  benefits from an 
occupational pension scheme  to a "buy out pension plan with L&G.
background
Mr P held deferred pension benefits  with an occupational pension scheme. Hed joined that 
scheme in 1977  and left it in 1989. He received advice  from L&G in May 1991 that 
suggested he should move those deferred benefits  from the occupational scheme to a 
pension plan provided by L&G. Following that advice Mr P did indeed  transfer  his deferred 
benefits.
In the late 1990s the financial regulator at the time became concerned about whether some  
pension transfers  from occupational pension  schemes had been  in the best interests of 
consumers. So all firms  were required to offer to review the advice that had previously been  
provided and to check whether consumers had lost out as a result of incorrect  advice to 
transfer benefits.
In May 2001  L&G performed a review  on the advice it had given to Mr P. That review 
concluded that a transfer of Mr Ps deferred benefits  hadnt  been in his best interest. So, 
since it wasnt able to reinstate Mr Ps membership of the occupational scheme L&G 
calculated the loss that Mr P had suffered using a formula laid down by the regulator.  As a 
result of that calculation L&G offered to increase the pension funds that Mr P had invested  
by £5,745.
Over the following couple of years Mr P corresponded with L&G to understand more  about 
that offer. But he remained  unhappy with the offer and so didnt accept it.
In 2018 Mr P was approaching his 60th birthday  and so was able to better understand the 
loss that he had suffered as a result  of leaving the occupational pension scheme. So he 
complained to L&G and asked that it make good  the pension  benefits that he had lost. L&G 
pointed Mr P back to the calculations it had performed in 2001 and said that it considered 
that was appropriate redress for the loss he had suffered. As a result L&G offered to pay the 
redress that it had offered  in 2001, and backdate  the payment to that date so that it might  
benefit from investment  gains over the intervening period.
Mr P didnt accept that offer so brought his complaint to this Service.  His complaint has been 
assessed by one of our adjudicators. He agreed  with L&G that the appropriate redress here 
would be that calculated following the review  in 2001. So he thought the offer L&G had made  
was fair.
Mr P didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Ref: DRN12338782In deciding this complaint  I dont need  to consider  whether the advice Mr P was given by 
L&G in 1991  was suitable. In the review it conducted in 2001  L&G concluded that Mr P 
would have been better off remaining a deferred member of the occupational pension  
scheme. So what I need to consider here is what L&G should do to put things right.
The review  that L&G carried  out was part of a large industry wide exercise supervised and 
devised by the industry  regulator  at the time. In many cases, including  that of Mr P, it wasnt  
possible for consumers  to be reinstated into the occupational pension schemes they had 
been incorrectly advised to leave. So the aim of the compensation that was calculated would 
have been to increase the value  of the pension investments Mr P held with L&G so that they 
would provide similar benefits to those hed have received from his occupation  scheme at 
retirement.
But a significant problem that was faced in making these calculations was that for many 
people, including  Mr P, there was a significant  period  left before their expected retirement 
date. So the calculations were based on a number of assumptions  that were  necessary 
because of this. The then regulator set out how the calculation  needed  to be done,  and the 
assumptions that all firms  had to use to assess the potential  loss.
Unfortunately the assumptions used havent  mirrored reality  and annuity  rates  have also 
fallen significantly.  Both of these factors have had a big impact,  meaning that the benefits 
provided by personal  pensions  are lower than might  reasonably have been anticipated when 
the review was undertaken in 2001. So although  L&G offered to increase the pension  
savings Mr P held, with the intention for them to match the benefits  he would have received 
from the occupational scheme  at retirement,  circumstances  have  meant that this hasnt been 
the case.
The aim of the pensions  review was effectively to draw  a line under  any pension mis-selling 
and put matters right at that time. It was a one off exercise, and from everything Ive seen 
L&G carried  out the review of Mr Ps situation  as it was required to. I do understand why 
Mr P is unhappy with the methodology  used and feels the compensation that was offered at 
the time is insufficient.  But it was the then regulators decision on how to deal with the mis-
selling problem. And so it is not something this service  should now challenge or ignore.
I understand that what I am saying here will be hugely disappointing for Mr P. In 2001 he 
had concerns that the redress he was being offered would be insufficient to replace the 
benefits hed been incorrectly advised to give up. And, although  the events of the intervening 
years could not have  been anticipated, his concerns about  the reduction  in his pension  
benefits have  been entirely proven. So, even after the addition of the compensation L&G has 
offered, he will now be left with a pension that is significantly less than hed have received if 
hed stayed as a member  of the occupational scheme.
But as Ive said earlier, the industry regulator set the terms on which  compensation should 
be calculated when  incorrect  advice  had been  given in the years  preceding  the review in 
2001. That review  was designed  to give certainty to both businesses  and consumers about  
the compensation to be paid and not leave matters outstanding for many years to come.  So 
it isnt reasonable  for me to expect L&G to pay more compensation than that it calculated  at 
the time.  I think the offer L&G has made   to pay the compensation, and backdate that 
payment to 2001  so that it will benefit from investment returns, is reasonable.
Ref: DRN12338783my final decision
I think the offer that has been  made by Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  is fair 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  L&G should  pay the compensation calculated as part 
of the pensions review  to Mr P, on the same  terms and backdated to when the offer was 
originally made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1233878