K820x#14complaint
Mrs R as executrix of the estate of the late Mr R, complains on its behalf  that Standard Life 
Assurance Limited failed to pay out around  £63,000  on his life insurance. 
She wants to know what happened to that money.
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, hes satisfied that the proceeds were  
paid into the correct place  namely  Mr Rs estate. 
Although there isnt much evidence available, it seems that the business paid out to a 
solicitors firm which then paid the money  into Mr Rs estate.  
Its unlikely that the money wouldnt have ended up in the correct place. 
Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators response. She made a number of points but in 
summary, she said the following: 
She was a legitimate executor of Mr Rs estate having dealt with numerous matters  
on its behalf. 
Although the solicitors  firm prepared  Mr Rs will, Mrs R wasnt  aware  that the 
solicitors firm were  acting as executors for his estate. And itd make no sense for her 
to pay it to do the same work.
Shes never instructed them to act in this capacity but only to obtain probate. Theres  
some history between them and the solicitors frim and she wonders if thats  left her 
being viewed  in a bad light.  
The adjudicator having considered the response wasnt  persuaded to change his mind. 
In response Mrs R has provided a photo  of Mr R  to illustrate the state  he was in paying for 
this policy. And to highlight that because she didnt receive the proceeds  from her husbands 
policy shes had to re-mortgage their house shortly after Mr Rs death and will subsequently 
have to sell the house. She remains concerned that this could happen to anyone  and that 
the business should be made to pay.   
The business made the following key observations:
Looking at the documentation provided by Mrs R, its noted a receipt  for paying off 
her mortgage dated 21 November  2005  for £62,545. 
This broadly ties with the business paying  the solicitors £62,854 on 15 November 
2005. 
It seems  more  likely  than not Mr Rs estate received the money  from the solicitors  
which enabled her to pay off the mortgage. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ref: DRN11898852Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I agree with the adjudicators conclusions for 
much the same reasons. Im not going  to uphold this complaint.   
Despite what Mrs R says, Im satisfied its more likely than not the money was paid to Mr Rs 
solicitors based upon  his instructions to the business, and then into Mr Rs estate  via his 
solicitors, again probably acting on his instructions. 
I understand that we dont have much  information  about this, and it may be because any 
discussion between Mr R and his solicitor  wouldve  been legally privileged, so not 
disclosable in any case. But as Im only considering the action of the business in terms of its 
actions its unlikely to matter.   
Im aware that theres limited information  available from the business, but given the length  of 
time thats  passed  this isnt surprising. Businesses arent generally required to retain records  
indefinitely, especially after a policy has been  paid out and has ended,  so its not something  
that I can fault the business for.  
Having considered the available  evidence, Im unable say that the money has simply gone  
missing, even if it wasnt received by Mrs R personally. Or that the money wasnt properly  
paid to Mr Rs solicitors,  who then paid his estate. In my opinion this broadly shows 
provenance, in other words where the money  came from and where  it went. 
Im mindful of Mrs Rs comments about  the solicitors firm and its involvement in handling the 
proceeds of Mr Rs life insurance. But Im also mindful that the solicitors were  responsible  for 
drafting Mr Rs Will, which may well have included additional instructions.  
So, whether  or not the solicitors wouldve been Mrs Rs solicitor of choice, it will have still 
had certain responsibilities  towards Mr R and his wishes.  Whilst Mrs R might not have asked 
it to act in any other capacity other  than to deal with probate, Ive nothing  to suggest that Mr 
R hadnt wished  differently.     
On the face of the evidence its possible that Mr R wanted the mortgage to be paid off rather 
than the proceeds  being paid to any single person. Im not suggesting he had any issue  with 
Mrs R receiving the funds, just that he may have wished to leave the home  to her mortgage 
free. 
Looking at the available evidence this is likely  to be whats happened  and why the business 
paid the proceeds  of his life insurance to the solicitor  rather than to his estate or any person 
 because I think the money  was likely  to have been earmarked for paying off the mortgage.  
This may very well explain why Mrs R didnt  receive  the funds directly and understandably is 
concerned about  what  happened to the money.  
Its possible that Mr R appointed the solicitors  as the trustees  of his policy and an executor 
(along with Mrs R) of his estate. Theres no reason why one of the executors  up to a 
maximum of four  cant include a solicitors firm tasked with a specific  role. Ive seen no 
evidence to the contrary but despite this I still think its possible this is whats happened. 
Ref: DRN11898853Despite what Mrs R now says, Im mindful  that memories  fade over time and that she may 
now not have  an accurate  recollection of what happened in 2005. 
I note what she says about not being  able to pay for the house is directly  at odds with the 
suggestion of the mortgage being  paid off using what appears to be Mr Rs life policy  Im 
mindful the dates  and amounts broadly coincide and support this theory.   So I dont think  this 
is an unreasonable conclusion. 
Its possible that once  the mortgage  was paid off Mrs R had to re-mortgage  if this is in fact 
what happened  because she still needed money,  and thereafter  was unable  to keep up 
with the mortgage re-payments in due course  may have  to sell the house. Im afraid despite 
what Mrs R says theres just no way of telling.  
In any case, on the face of the evidence and on balance, Im unable to say that the business  
has made a mistake by paying the proceeds  to Mr Rs solicitors.  
I appreciate Mrs R will be disappointed Ive reached  the same conclusion  as the adjudicator. 
I also understand this is not the answer she was hoping for. But on the face of the evidence,  
and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint  and give her what she wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1189885