K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender) lent her money  that she 
couldnt afford to repay. Miss P wants a refund of interest and charges applied to the loans  
and she asks the loans be removed from her credit file.
background
Miss P took out four instalment loans with Mr Lender between  July 2016 and April 2017.  A 
summary of her lending  is as follows:
Loan one for £300 taken in July 2016
Loan two for £350 taken in August 2016  
Loan three for £500 taken in December 2016 
Loan four for £750 taken in April 2017 to be repaid by six monthly instalments the 
highest of which  was £287 
Miss P says that she had a number of other  payday loans at the time and was using  new 
loans to keep  up with her existing  commitments.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Ps complaint be upheld  in part. She thought that 
before agreeing loan four, Mr Lender shouldve found out about  Miss Ps other  short term 
loans. And that if Mr Lender had done  this, it wouldve seen that Miss P had at least  three 
outstanding short term loans, making  further lending unsustainable.
The adjudicator asked Mr Lender to refund interest and charges on loan four and pay 
interest on the refund. She also recommended  that Mr Lender remove any negative  
information about loan four from Miss Ps credit file.
Mr Lender doesnt agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. Since the adjudication 
there hasnt  been  any dispute about loans one to three, so my decision deals with the loan 
that remains in dispute  loan four.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that  
Miss P could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN12492492But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing in mind Mr Lenders response to our adjudicators  assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender  was required to establish  whether Miss P 
could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether  the loan payments  were  affordable  on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow to 
meet the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise  or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if its likely  they will need to 
borrow further to repay their loans.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss P complaint.
By the time that Miss P applied for loan four, shed been borrowing from Mr Lender almost 
continuously for more  than nine months. Miss P was asking to borrow more money each 
time  loan four was a 50% increase on loan three. And Miss P applied  for loan four the day 
after she repaid  loan three.
I consider that Mr Lender shouldve had concerns that Miss P had become reliant  on short 
term lending and asked  her specifically whether she owed money to other payday lenders.
Mr Lender says that it was aware that Miss P had other loans as her outgoings had 
increased. Mr Lender says that the other loans included short  term loans. But from what  Mr 
Lender has told us, I cant say that it questioned  Miss P about  how many other short term 
loans she had at the time.  
I think this was important  as we have evidence  that Miss P owed money to at least  three  
other payday lenders around  the time of loan four. In total, Miss P was due make  
Ref: DRN12492493repayments of more than £860 to these other lenders. So I dont think  that it was sustainable 
for Miss P to take on even  more debt. 
I understand that a lender  can reasonably  expect  a borrower to be truthful about their 
finances when  asked. But I also consider that with better checks, Mr Lender  wouldve been 
alerted to the fact that Miss P was struggling with her finances and wasnt borrowing money 
to help with one off expenses. 
When Mr Lender  asked  Miss P whether  she had any other loans or credit commitments  that 
she had missed payments  on, its entirely possible that Miss P answered no truthfully  as 
she was using loans  from multiple payday  lenders  to try and keep on top of all of her credit 
commitments.  
Overall, if Mr Lender had known about the extent of Miss Ps other short  term lending  
commitments, as a responsible lender I wouldnt have expected it to agree loan four. So I 
consider that its reasonable to uphold Miss Ps complaint about this loan.
putting things right - what  Mr Lender  needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Miss P paid on loan four; 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year * on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; and
remove any negative information  about loan four from Miss Ps credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
It must give Miss P a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right,  PDL Finance 
Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should take the steps  outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2019.  
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1249249