K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited  refused to pay a claim on his motor 
insurance policy and then voided his policy.
Reference to Ageas  includes  its agents.
background
Mr T insured his car with Ageas. His son was a named driver on the policy.  A couple of 
weeks after taking out the policy Mr T and his son bought a new car. Mr Ts son was the 
registered keeper  of the car. Mr T changed the car on the policy but didn't tell Ageas that his 
son was its registered  keeper.  Some months  later Mr Ts son had an accident when driving 
the car. At that point  Mr T told Ageas that his son was the cars  registered keeper. Ageas 
said that if Mr T had told it that when  he changed the car on the policy it wouldn't have 
insured him for the new car. So it refused to pay his claim and cancelled his policy as if it 
hadn't existed  from the point Mr T changed the car on the policy,  known as voidance.  It 
refunded Mr Ts premium.
Mr T didn't think Ageas had treated him fairly.  He explained he has health issues that cause 
him memory  problems and confusion,  which led to him making a mistake  when he changed 
the car on the policy. Our adjudicator thought that Ageas had dealt with Mr T reasonably. 
Mr T didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Mr T doesn't  dispute  that he made a mistake when  he changed the car on the policy.  He 
acknowledges that he should have said that his son, and not himself,  was the registered 
keeper. And hes explained that his health  condition affects his memory and causes him to 
become confused. Hes said that he didn't intend to misrepresent  his circumstances but 
made a genuine  mistake.  I accept thats the case.  And I note that Ageas hasn't said or 
implied that Mr T deliberately said that he was the registered keeper knowing that in fact his 
son was. But that doesn't  mean  that Ageas decision to refuse  the claim and void his policy  
was unfair.
When Mr T changed  the car on his policy he was asked if he was the registered  keeper of 
the car. I think thats a clear question. Mr T answered that he was. And Ageas  sent him 
documents that said he was the registered  keeper and asked  him to contact it if anything on 
the paperwork wasn't right. The documents warned that if any of the information  wasn't  right 
that could lead to a claim being refused and the policy being voided. But Mr T didn't contact 
Ageas to tell it that the registered keeper was wrong. And Mr Ts mistake in telling  Ageas  
that he was the registered  keeper when he wasn't is whats known in the insurance  industry  
as a qualifying misrepresentation.
It might help if I explain that there's a theres a law called the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) which  sets out what an insurer  may do 
where a consumers made a misrepresentation. It says that where, but for that 
Ref: DRN18533252misrepresentation, an insurer wouldnt have entered into the contract,  otherwise known as 
the policy, it may refuse any claim and void the policy.
In this case Ageas has shown us its underwriting criteria. Those are the rules that Ageas 
follows when deciding  whether to insurer someone or not. And those show  that Ageas won't 
offer policies to people  who arent the registered  keeper of the car in question  (with the 
exception of where the registered keeper is the policyholders spouse). So, if Mr T had told 
Ageas that it was his son, rather than himself, who was the cars registered keeper, then 
Ageas wouldn't have insured him. And in those  circumstances  Ageas has reasonably 
followed what CIDRA allows it to do and voided  the policy.
I do understand that Mr T didn't deliberately  give Ageas the wrong  information  about who 
was the cars registered keeper. But Mr T is aware  that he has memory problems and can 
get confused.  So he probably  should have asked  for help when changing  the car on the 
policy. I don't  think it was Ageas fault that he didn't do so. And Ageas has recognised  that 
Mr Ts mistake wasn't deliberate. Ill explain that, where a consumer has deliberately or 
recklessly made a misrepresentation then the law says that the insurer may keep the full 
premium. But where  that mistake is careless  then the insurer   in this case  Ageas - should 
return the premium. And thats what Ageas did. So its recognised  that Mr T didn't  
deliberately make a mistake. But given that it wouldn't ever have insured the new car if Mr T 
hadn't made  that mistake  I think its reasonable that it refused to pay the claim and voided 
the policy. 
I do realise that Ageas decision to refuse the claim and void Mr Ts policy  is likely to have a 
significant impact on him and so my decision is likely to disappoint him, but I think  Ageas has 
dealt with the situation reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1853325