K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the refund he got from his broker,  Be Wiser Insurance  Services  Ltd, 
when he cancelled his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr G paid £1,686.96  for the policy. He was told when he bought  it that short-term rates  
would be applied by the insurer on cancellation after 14 days. Be Wiser said it would charge 
a non-refundable set-up fee for placing the policy, plus a £100 cancellation fee. Mr G had 
bought an add-on policy for £135  to cover the high excess on the main  policy.  Be Wiser 
said the premium for that policy was also non-refundable.  
Mr G decided to cancel  the policy after it had been running for less than two months. The 
insurer charged him 40% of the full premium and Be Wiser added set-up and cancellation 
charges of £162. Mr G said the refund he got of £641.43 wasnt  enough.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr Gs complaint. He said Mr G had been  told about the 
set-up charge  Be Wiser  would make and its £100  cancellation charge. After  checking what 
work and costs for Be Wiser were involved in cancelling a policy,  he said the charge for that 
was reasonable.  He said as Mr G had been  told the add-on policy  was non-refundable,  it 
was fair retain the premium for that too. The investigator said if Mr G didnt agree with the 
sum charged  for the motor insurance policy, he could raise the issue with the insurer. 
Mr G asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the sales call, Be Wisers advisor told Mr G that if he cancelled  the policy  within the 14-
day cooling-off period,  hed only be charged by the insurer  for time on cover, plus a set-up 
charge of £56. He said after that period, the insurer would charge short-term rates and that 
Be Wiser would also charge a £100  cancellation  fee. The advisor  told Mr G several times 
during the call that he should check all the documents  that Be Wiser  would be sending him 
shortly and that he should contact Be Wiser if he had any queries. 
When Be Wiser alerted Mr G to the insurers short-term  rates  during the sales  call, he didnt 
query it. Details of the exact percentage of the premium the insurer would retain  were  
provided in the insurers  Statement of Fact, which was sent to Mr G straight after the sale. 
Be Wiser had already  advised Mr G to check the documents during the sales call, and it also 
wrote to him to remind him to do so after the sale. Had Mr G noted the high percentage of 
the premium the insurer would  retain  on early cancellation, he could have cancelled the 
policy during the cooling-off period if he didnt agree with it. Hed then only have had to pay 
the insurer for the time he had on cover. 
From what  Mr G has said, when he cancelled the policy he only expected to be charged for 
the cover  hed had. I can see that the sum retained  by the insurer  would have been quite a 
shock to Mr G if he wasnt aware of the effect of the short-term  rates. But I dont  think  thats 
Be Wisers  fault, as it gave Mr G notice of what would  happen  on cancellation after 14 days. 
Unfortunately, he didnt query anything or cancel  the policy  within that period. 
Ref: DRN13704032Mr G was also told about Be Wisers  £100 cancellation charge at the point of sale.  He hasnt 
complained to us about that, although I think its a little higher than the charge we normally 
think is reasonable. But Be Wiser has set out the activities and the costs associated  with a  
cancellation, and taking everything into account,  I think making the charge  was reasonable. 
The advisor told Mr G during the sales call that there  would be a set-up charge of £56 should 
the policy be cancelled  within  the cooling-off  period.  In the terms and conditions document 
sent to Mr G straight after the sale, it said the set-up charge was £62 and was non-
refundable. As theres  work involved in setting up a policy,  we think  its fair to charge a 
reasonable non-refundable  set-up  fee. Although theres a slight difference  in the sum quoted 
by the advisor  and the sum charged, I dont think it would have made any difference  to Mr G 
had the advisor  quoted £62 instead of £56 during the call. 
During the sales call the advisor didnt say the premium for the add-on policy was non-
refundable. Although that was set out later in a letter,  I think  it should be made  clear  at the 
point of sale if a premiums non-refundable. A consumer can then decide whether the 
policys worth buying.  So I think the question is whether  it would have made a difference to 
Mr G had been told the facts. In my opinion, its more likely than not that Mr G would still 
have bought the add-on policy. Thats because paying £135  for it for the year would have 
guaranteed a refund of the £3,000 policy excess had a claim been made on the motor policy. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Be Wiser should have to refund part of the premium.      
I know Mr G will be disappointed  with my decision, but as I dont think hes been able to 
show that Be Wiser acted unreasonably,  I cant uphold  his complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr G to accept  or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1370403