K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ls circumstances  at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And they said that, although BoS 
says it didnt do anything  wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made  an offer 
as if it had.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. BoS has offered to pay back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI, so I dont think it needs  to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons for each of 
these conclusions below.  
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Ill explain why.
The PPI was arranged  during a meeting when Mr and Mrs L were arranging a further 
advance. BoS isnt able to provide any paperwork from the time of sale - this is 
unfortunate, but unsurprising for a sale that took place  from so long ago. So Ive 
considered Mr and Mrs Ls comments alongside  what we know  in general about  how 
Ref: DRN18870272BoS sold PPI at the time to decide  whats more likely to have happened.  Based on what  I 
know about how BoS sold PPI I wouldve expected a discussion with the advisor to 
involve a decision about the level of cover and to set up the policy.  In Mr and Mrs Ls 
case it was decided the policy would cover them both equally.  Mr and Mrs L already had 
a mortgage with BoS without PPI, and this policy  was taken when they were taking 
further borrowing. I think this shows Mr and Mrs L knew they could have their mortgage 
without the PPI.
I also think its likely Mr and Mrs L wouldve had to complete some paperwork at the time, 
and this is likely to have  reflected  the discussions they had at the time. Taking everything 
into account, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs L knew the policy was optional  and 
they agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
Mr and Mrs L say they werent  given  advice to take out the PPI. BoS says it did provide 
advice. I have looked at their complaint  on the basis that advice was given  as this holds 
BoS to a higher standard. This means BoS had to check that the PPI was right for Mr 
and Mrs L. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances  at the time,  shows  that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  The policy  was set up to 
cover both Mr and Mrs L and they were  both eligible  for the cover.  Mr and Mrs L have  
referred to their employee benefits, savings and other insurance  they had at the time 
which they say couldve relied  on. They say this shows they didnt have  a need for the 
cover. Ive considered these points, but I still think Mr and Mrs L wouldve found the PPI 
useful. The PPI wouldve paid out alongside  Mr and Mrs Ls employee benefits, and for 
longer, as they couldve used the policy for up to 24 months if they needed to. They  also 
wouldve been able to use the policy alongside any existing insurance they had, which 
seems to have covered  different  situations to the PPI. The policy wouldve also allowed 
them to preserve their savings. 
I can also see that Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage was a significant and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping  up with the 
repayments couldve been serious  for them. And I think having the security  that part of 
the repayments wouldve been  made if either of them was unable to work or unwell 
wouldve been important  to them. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ls employment or occupation  which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. Although Mr and Mrs L say they both had medical 
conditions when  the PPI was taken  out, the policy  didnt include any limitations relating to 
pre-existing health issues. Mr and Mrs L were  therefore in a position to use all aspects of 
the policy had the need arisen.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs L as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were buying 
from the information they were  given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs L would have  declined the cover had BoS done  anything more.
While  the policy contained limitation on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So I think they 
Ref: DRN18870273would have still thought they had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs L would have still taken out PPI. I think  the policy  could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  has raised  a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should  have  disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ls particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has offered  to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it 
needs to do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  has made a number of representations about  this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs L should  get back all the money  they paid for the 
policy because:  BoS failed to tell Mr and Mrs L about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should  find that Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN18870274taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission and the should  receive  a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ls PPI was less than 
half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BoS has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr and Mrs Ls case  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed  to tell Mr and Mrs L about  the commission.  So it follows that I dont 
think the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think BoS treated Mr and Mrs 
L unfairly. 
This means  BoS doesnt  need to pay Mr and Mrs L back any of the commission they paid for 
the PPI. 
But in any event BoS has offered to give back to Mr and Mrs L some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mr and Mrs L as if it had treated them unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint or make  any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission  
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs L paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered  to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
L. Bank  of Scotland  Plc should  now make  arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs L if it hasnt done 
so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 October  2021.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18870275
Ref: DRN1887027