K820x#14complaint
Ms N says she was mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI) in February 1994.
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL) as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
Ms N says she bought  the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should  uphold the complaint. Ms N disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ns case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms N says PPI was added to her store card account without her knowing about  it. FICL 
say it wouldve made it clear to Ms N that she didnt  have to buy a PPI policy  and it 
would have got her consent before adding the cover  to her account. Where  theres  a 
dispute about what happened, I have to base my decision on what  I think is most likely to 
have happened   taking into account all the evidence  thats  available.
Neither party has been able to give me any information to show  me how the PPI was 
presented to Ms N  but this isnt surprising or unusual given how long ago the policy was 
sold. Ive seen a copy of an application  that FICL say was in use at around the time Ms N 
took out her account. This shows  that Ms N would  have had to actively select to buy the 
PPI. But as I havent seen the actual application for the store  card and PPI, I cant  be sure of 
exactly what Ms N would have seen.
Ive thought carefully about what Ms N has said about the sale  in that she didnt realise  the 
cover had been added. For me to be able to agree with what  Ms N has said, I have to think 
it more likely that someone at the store deliberately  added the cover without her knowing 
about it. And although I agree this is possible,  I dont think  its more likely.
The PPI was on Ms Ns monthly  statement  so had she not wanted  the PPI or didnt know  it 
had been added to her account, I would have expected her to question this at the time.
So on balance, I think  it more likely  FICL made  it clear to Ms N that she had a choice in 
taking PPI  and I think she chose to take it.
I dont think FICL advised Ms N to take out the PPI. So it didnt have to check  it was suitable 
for her. But it did need to make sure it gave  her enough information  about the cover so she 
could decide for herself if she wanted to buy it.
Ref: DRN18271182I dont know exactly what information Ms N received about the policy at the time of sale.  But 
even if I accept  she wasnt given clear enough information about  the policy, I dont think  this 
wouldve affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons Ive explained  below.
Ms N was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear  to have been  affected by any of the 
main things which may have made it difficult for her to make a successful  claim  such as 
a pre-existing medical condition. She told us she was employed and in good health. Ms N 
says she wouldnt have  got any sick pay if she was away from work due to illness.  Shes  
also said she didnt have  any other way of making repayments to the card if she should 
stop work  unexpectedly. So the PPI could have proved useful  to her if she had an 
accident, became  ill or lost her job  and I think she might have struggled to make 
repayments to the card without the PPI.
Im not satisfied FICL  made  the cost of the policy clear enough for Ms N to understand what 
the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I think  if
Ms N had properly understood the cost and benefit  provided she wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful.
Overall, I think it likely that FICL didnt do everything it needed to when it sold the policy to
Ms N. But I think it likely  she knew she had a choice about taking  the PPI and I think  she 
would still have taken  out the cover if shed been  properly  informed  about  it.
Ive taken into account Ms Ns comments,  but these  points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1827118