K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Cumberland Building  Society  mis-sold him mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI).  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out with a mortgage in January 2002 and then 
again in January 2003. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Cumberland  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Cumberland has said but Ive still decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
This is because Cumberland recommended the policies to Mr H but I dont think  they were 
suitable for him. Mr H had a history of operations  that were designed to deal with a chronic  
infection problem.  The terms  of the policy meant that you were  not covered for the first 12 
months of the insurance, for claims related to a condition you knew  about  at the start of the 
cover. It is not clear that Cumberland ensured Mr H understood the recommendation was 
not suitable in this way. In 2003 Mr H did declare that he had had another operation in the 
preceding year, as required by the question.  But it is again not clear that Mr H was made to 
understand the effect this would have on his ability to claim.  
I dont think Mr H would have taken  the PPI if hed understood its limitations.  I think  hes lost 
out as a result. 
fair compensation
Cumberland should  put Mr H in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken  out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Cumberland should:
Pay Mr H the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Cumberland  can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Cumberland to take off tax from this interest.  
Cumberland must give Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
Ref: DRN15989822my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
I require Cumberland  Building Society  to pay Mr H compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1598982