K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that NewDay  Ltd (trading as Aqua) was irresponsible when it increased  the 
credit limit on his credit  card account. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 29 March  2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  in part 
and how I thought Aqua should  put things right here. I invited both parties  to send any 
additional evidence  or comments they wished to make before I made my final decision.
Mr G has confirmed that he accepts  my provisional decision and has no further comments  to 
make.
Aqua has responded setting out why it disagrees with my provisional decision. I have taken 
its comments into account and Ill summarise Aquas response to my provisional decision.
Aqua has said it felt that when it increased  Mr Gs credit limits his financial  situation  was 
improving and it also said it managed his account sufficiently. It stated that while  there were 
a high number  of cash advance fees charged  on Mr Gs account his actual cash usage was 
relatively low. So it said the charges it applied werent because  he had borrowed large sums. 
Rather, they were because Mr G had made  a number  of smaller cash advance transactions 
instead  with each transaction incurring a separate fee.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Aquas additional  comments and whether these change my provisional 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought the increases in credit  limit that Aqua 
gave Mr G up to January 2015  were reasonable. But after this date I addressed in detail why 
Aqua shouldnt have increased  Mr Gs credit limit from £1,000 to £2,350. As I stated in my 
provisional decision, these increases were requested  by Mr G in quick  succession   namely 
within four months  of each other. They  were  also for higher amounts that any of the previous 
increases that Aqua  had authorised. And this meant that within  eight months Mr Gs credit 
limit was almost two and a half times  what it had been  at the start of 2015. 
Ref: DRN16424382In my provisional decision I also outlined the pattern of frequent  cash advances  that Mr G 
was making  especially those in February,  May, September and October 2015. Ive thought 
about what Aqua has said in its response  to my provisional decision about Mr Gs cash 
advances. But I remain persuaded  that, given the timing of the credit  limit increases, Aqua 
ought to have reasonably had concerns about  Mr Gs financial situation. Even though Mr G 
may have  been  making relatively small  cash  advances  there  was a pattern of consistent 
cash withdrawals set against an ever increasing balance.  So, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, Aqua had good reason  to question  Mr G about the 2015 cash  advances 
in particular and the way in which he was managing his account.
I remain satisfied that the way in which Mr G was managing his account Aqua shouldve  
prompted it to ask him about his financial situation and query why he wanted such large 
credit limit increases. And I believe that if Aqua  had undertaken proportionate checks and a 
full financial review it wouldve presented a picture  of someone in clear  financial difficulties. 
Ive already I explained in my provisional  decision why I think this wouldve most likely 
deterred Aqua from increasing Mr Gs credit limits in May and September 2015. 
While Ive carefully considered what Aqua has said in response to my provisional decision  
this doesnt alter my view that it acted unreasonably  in approving the increases Mr G 
requested in May and September 2015. It follows  that it would be unfair for it to apply 
interest and charges after May 2015.
In view of the above, I see no reason to depart from the view I set out in my provisional 
decision. And so I adopt the reasoning set out in my provisional decision  as my final 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Gs complaint  in part. 
To resolve  this complaint  NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) should do the following:
Refund all interest  and charges it has applied to Mr Gs account since  May 2015;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) to take off tax from this 
interest. NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) must  give Mr G a certificate  showing  how much tax 
its taken off it he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Julie Robertson 
ombudsman
Copy provision  decision  of 29 March  2019
complaint
Ref: DRN16424383Mr G complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) was irresponsible when  it increased the credit limit 
on his credit card account.  
background
Mr G applied for a credit  card with Aqua in early 2014. Based on the information  he gave it, Aqua 
accepted his application and gave him a credit limit of £250. One month later Aqua increased his 
credit limit to £500. In September 2014  it increased  his credit limit further to £600.  In January, May 
and September the following  year there were further credit limit increases to £1,000, £1,600 and 
£2,350. Aqua said Mr G had requested the 2015 increases.
Ms G said he was using up the available limit each time it was increased for cash advances and to 
fund gambling. He said Aqua increased  his credit limits irresponsibly because these increases led to 
financial difficulties. 
When Mr G complained to Aqua about its decision  to increase his credit limit it rejected his complaint.  
It said that, each time it had offered Mr G a credit limit increase, hed been given  the option to decline  
the increase. And it said it was satisfied  he could afford the borrowing  so it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr G wasnt  happy with Aquas response so he brought his complaint to us. In its final response letter  
Aqua suggested thered  only been two increases of Mr Gs credit  limit. But our adjudicator dealt with 
this in their view and its accepted  there were more  increases than this  three of which Aqua said 
were at Mr Gs request. While our adjudicator  empathised with Mr G, they thought Aqua had acted 
fairly and reasonably. But Mr G disagreed  and asked  for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im departing  from what our adjudicator has said. Ill 
explain why.
Mr G said he shouldnt have  been given credit by Aqua because  he was in debt with a number  of 
companies when he opened his account. But this wouldnt necessarily  mean Aquas  decision to 
approve his credit card application was wrong. It offers cards  to people who want to improve their 
credit rating  because they have poor or absent credit history. So it wouldnt be unusual  for a customer 
to have debts pre-existing elsewhere.
Aqua was required to lend responsibly. Before agreeing to do so, it shouldve  assessed the 
affordability of credit to ensure that Mr G could afford to repay  what  he was borrowing. Its up to Aqua 
which checks it carries out. But, they must be proportionate to things such as the amount borrowed, 
the cost of repayment  and a customers lending history. We cant say a lender shouldve  done any 
particular check and there  isnt a set list of checks needed.
Before approving Mr Gs application Aqua said it made a credit assessment. It said it used its own 
internal risk strategies  and reviewed information supplied  by Mr G and credit reference agencies.  It 
said that, after doing  so, it was satisfied he met its acceptance criteria.  Given  this, and the relatively 
small amount  of credit  Aqua offered him, I think  it was reasonable for it to have accepted his initial 
application with a relatively small credit limit.
Before it changes  a customers  credit limit Aqua  said it reviews how theyre using their card and 
managing other  credit  commitments. It says it makes risk based assessments to ensure its lending is 
appropriate to a customers  financial  circumstances. It says these checks  were  undertaken before it 
increased Mr Gs limit in May by £250  and September 2014 by a further £100. And it says Mr G met 
the criteria to qualify for an increase on each occasion. These increases were small. And, I dont think 
Aqua acted unreasonably in increasing Mr Gs card limit in May and September  2014.
Ref: DRN16424384Ive seen the terms  and conditions of Mr Gs credit card account. These state that Aqua  will decide 
the credit limit and may change it at any time. Its clear  from these  terms that a customer can tell 
Aqua not to increase  their credit limit and that they dont want  to be considered for any future 
increases. Its also clear  that a customer can ask Aqua,  at any time, to reduce their credit limit.
Aqua said before it made changes  to Mr Gs credit  limit it wrote to him in accordance  with these  terms.  
Mr G says he doesnt recall Aqua writing to him before each credit limit increase. But Im satisfied it 
did, on the balance  of probabilities, because Ive seen copies of the letters  Aqua say were sent to him 
on 14 April and 14 August 2014. I can see that these letters  told him it was going to increase his limit 
and advised him to think about whether  the proposed increases were  affordable to him. He was also 
told what to do if he didnt want  the increase  or wanted to opt out of future  increases.  I understand he 
didnt reject the increases Aqua proposed in 2014. 
Aqua says its policy is to offer customers a credit limit increase  even where they are close to their 
limit. It says customers  are only excluded if they are over their credit limit. Mr G says Aqua shouldnt  
have kept increasing his credit limit because it shouldve  noticed he was regularly using  his full limit 
and known his debt was increasing. Having  looked at Mr Gs credit card statements I can see that he 
was very close to his credit  limit each time it was increased by Aqua. But he hadnt  exceeded it and 
by January 2015 his limit had increased  to £1,000. I think the increases Aqua made up to this point 
were reasonable for the reasons previously outlined.
After January 2015, though, Mr Gs limit increased much  more significantly from £1,000 to £2,350.  
Aqua said the credit  limit increases in January, May and September 2015 were at Mr Gs request.  
And it also said it made a credit assessment prior to each increase and found no adverse information 
to suggest unaffordability or financial difficulties.  But while Ive seen evidence that it did undertake the 
credit assessments it said it did, I dont  think it undertook proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that 
these credit limit increases were affordable to Mr G. Ill explain why.
The credit  limit increase  requests were made in quick succession by Mr G - namely within  four months 
of each other. And they were  for higher amounts than any of the previous increases Aqua had 
authorised. So, within eight months Mr Gs credit limit was almost two and a half times what  it had 
been at the start of 2015.
From May 2014 Mr G made frequent  cash advances. And in 2015 this pattern increased with up to six 
cash advances in February,  May, September and October  2015. So, I think  thats enough  given  the 
timing of the credit limit increases  for Aqua to have reasonably had concerns about Mr Gs financial 
situation. I think Aqua  had good  reason  to question Mr G about  the 2015 cash  advances  in particular. 
And I think it shouldve asked him about the way in which he was managing  his account. 
While its clear that Mr G wanted and requested the 2015 increases I think these shouldve  prompted 
Aqua to ask Mr G about his financial situation and query why he wanted such  large increases. I 
consider a full financial review wouldve  been  proportionate and appropriate by this point. And I think if 
Aqua had looked at the way in which  Mr G was maintaining his account  it wouldve, most likely, 
noticed he was experiencing financial difficulties and falling further into debt from his gambling 
transactions and cash withdrawals. 
Mr G had a large  amount  of unsecured debt  including, but not limited to at the time of the limit 
increases  another credit card, several loans, several  catalogue accounts and, in May,  June and 
August 2015   advances against his income from other lenders. 
Had Aqua  undertaken  proportionate  checks and a full financial  review on Mr Gs expenditure and 
borrowing elsewhere,  I think  this wouldve presented a picture of someone in clear  financial 
difficulties. And I believe  this wouldve most likely deterred Aqua from increasing Mr Gs credit limits in 
May and September  2015.  Im not persuaded that a reasonable  lender, even one that targeted the 
same customer  demographic as Aqua,  wouldve made the same decision to increase  Mr Gs credit 
Ref: DRN16424385limit post January 2015 in such  circumstances. So, I dont think  Aqua acted reasonably in approving  
the increases Mr G requested in May and September 2015. 
The UK Cards Association  best practice guidance  on credit  card limit increases at the time points to 
this sort of behaviour  as being possible  indicators  that a customer is showing signs of financial 
difficulty. Taken as a whole, rather than reassure  Aqua that Mr G was in a good position to have his 
credit limit more than doubled from January 2015  to September 2015,  I think  these factors presented 
reasonable cause for Aqua  to have got further information about Mr Gs finances. It didnt do this. So, 
I cant  reasonably  conclude it acted fairly in giving  Mr G the increases hed asked for in May and 
September 2015.
Irresponsible lending isnt just about whether Mr G could afford to repay  the credit or not. Its also 
about whether theres another  reason  he shouldnt have the credit.  For example, it could be 
irresponsible to lend money to someone whos  in a debt spiral or whos using the money to fund a 
gambling habit. 
Here there was a pattern of consistent cash withdrawals set against an ever increasing balance. Mr G 
regularly spent  up to his credit limit and he quickly maxed out his credit card after Aqua increased his 
credit limit in May and September 2015. In January, June and July 2015  he incurred over-limit  fees. 
So, based on what Ive seen of how Mr G was conducting his account  I think  Aqua ought reasonably 
to have been  aware that he was experiencing difficulties. 
I understand Mr G didnt  notify Aqua he was experiencing financial difficulties  until a debt charity set 
up a repayment plan on his behalf in December 2015. When Mr G told Aqua about  his financial 
difficulties, I think it treated  him positively  and sympathetically as wed expect it to. I say this because 
it worked with him to assess the affordability of his monthly payments.  I can also see the interest on 
Mr Gs account was waived while he made reduced payments. A lender doesnt have to do this. So I 
think, in doing so, Aqua  acted fairly  and reasonably. 
But for the reasons outlined,  I also think Aqua shouldve recognised Mr G was experiencing  financial 
difficulties before  December 2015. It missed an opportunity to do so in May and September 2015 
when Mr G requested  further increases  of his credit limit. And I dont think it would be reasonable for it 
to apply  interest and charges to Mr Gs account after May 2015 in the circumstances.
In summary, I find that Aqua  acted reasonably  and fairly  in approving Mr Gs application  for a credit 
card with a limit of £250  in early 2014. And Im satisfied it acted  reasonably in increasing Mr Gs credit 
limit in May and September 2014 and in January 2015. But, Im not persuaded  it acted responsibly  
and fairly when it approved Mr Gs requests to increase his credit limit in May and September  2015 for 
the reasons outlined. So, I dont think it would be right for it to apply interest and charges  after May 
2015.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im minded to uphold this complaint in part. NewDay Ltd (trading as 
Aqua) should do the following to resolve this complaint:
Refund all interest and charges it has applied to Mr Gs account since May 2015;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) to take off tax from this interest.  
NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off it he 
asks for one.
Ill wait two weeks to see if either party  has anything further to add  before considering my decision 
on this complaint once more.
Ref: DRN16424386Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1642438