K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about Europ Assistance S.A. and the fact it has refused to pursue a claim 
under legal expenses cover  in a travel insurance policy.
background
Under a previous complaint with us Europ agreed to get a detailed legal opinion on whether 
Mr Os proposed claim had reasonable prospects of success and if so, that the costs of 
pursuing this were proportionate to the likely  award if successful at court.
Europ obtained  a more detailed legal  opinion which confirmed  there  were  prospects of 
success but that the costs of pursuit were disproportionate to the likely award. The likely cost 
of pursuing the matter  to trial, which  would  be in a different country to the UK, amounts to 
around £20,000. And the likely award  Mr O would get based on the scarring, if successful,  is 
between £3,000 and £6,925. And even if there  was uplift  to the next bracket  the maximum 
award would  be £13,650. The lawyer said these  were  based on UK figures and not the 
country where Mr O was injured, and any award  in that country  would in all likelihood be 
lower. In these circumstances Europ said the costs to pursue were  more than the award  and 
so it wouldnt cover Mr Os claim.
Mr O takes issue  with the opinion, in particular;
It hasnt been  assessed by a suitably qualified person
The extent of his injuries arent understood
Costs would be recoverable.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and was of the view that the legal  opinion  
confirmed reasonable prospects of success but the likely  cost of pursuing the matter  would  
be more than any likely award. She explained  her view that Europ was entitled to decline 
Mr Os claim as it didnt  meet the terms of the policy. But if Mr O continued to disagree with 
the opinion he could obtain his own legal opinion. And if it supported  his case  then he could 
send it to Europ  for further review. 
The investigator said Europ took too long to obtain a second opinion, a delay  of two months. 
And in the circumstances Europ should pay Mr O £150 compensation for the distress the 
delay caused.
Europ agreed with the investigators view but Mr O did not, saying (in summary);
The lawyers credentials werent checked properly
The lawyer only based  his opinion on severe  scarring and failed to add compensation 
entitlement.
The matter  has been referred to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Mr Os insurance there is a section  that says if he suffers  bodily injury  (which he did) 
caused by a third party  Europ will cover legal expenses incurred in pursuit of a claim for 
damages or compensation. This is limited by the policy to legal expenses of £15,000.
Ref: DRN10437202There are, like in every  insurance policy, specific exclusions that state when Europ  wont  
provide cover. The one Europ has relied on, and which  is at the heart of this complaint, is the 
exclusion that says Europ will not pay where it is believed a claim will not be successful  or 
the costs of taking  action  will be more than any award. 
Europ must  handle claims fairly. In making  decisions  about whether a proposed a claim has 
prospects of success,  and if the award  is proportionate to the costs involved, Im satisfied 
that its fair to expect  Europ to rely on appropriate legal advice.
Im satisfied the lawyer  who gave  the opinion was appropriate.  According to the Law 
Societys website the lawyer has been  qualified for many years  and their areas of practice 
include cross border,  personal  injury  and travel and tourism. 
Our role is not to give legal advice or comment on the legal advice obtained  by an insurer,  
unless it is obviously wrong.  There is nothing to suggest the advice is obviously wrong, and 
so it follows Im satisfied its fair Europ  relies on that professional legal advice it obtained.
Having read the lawyers  advice its clear the issue of costs is based on his experience in 
litigating in the country  that proceedings would be issued and knowledge of other relevant 
fees and disbursements. So, Im satisfied its fair that Europ took the costs into account  
when deciding the issue of proportionality.  And equally the lawyer  clear set out reasons, 
backed up by source  material,  and experience to quantify the likely award Mr O may get, if 
successful.
Taking all this into account Im satisfied  Europ has acted fairly in obtaining  the legal advice 
and relying on its contents when making it decision. Its of note as well that the costs  
involved exceed the policy limit of £15,000.  
Mr O has made points  about the level of award  he thinks he would get and that the costs in 
pursuing the matter  would be recoverable in the country of proceedings. As Europ has 
accepted, if Mr O provides appropriate legal advice to support this then it will look at the 
matter again.  Im satisfied  this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Europ has agreed  to pay Mr O £150  compensation to reflect  the distress caused  by the 
delay in obtaining the advice it relied  on. Im satisfied that reflects the circumstances and 
impact in Mr Os case.
my final decision
I uphold this case and require Europ Assistance S.A. to pay Mr O £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1043720