K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy The Prudential Assurance Company Limited did not transfer benefits from 
his former  occupational  pension scheme in 1988.  He says hes lost his pension  as a result.  
background
Following a meeting  with a Prudential adviser, Mr B started a regular contribution personal 
pension plan (PPP) in May 1988.  At the time of advice, Mr Bs circumstances were  recorded 
on a personal financial  review document, bearing his signature.  This document  included an 
Advice given  section with the instruction if any policy is to be terminated  full details must be 
given. Pension recommended was handwritten in this section. 
Later that year Mr B met with Prudential again and another personal financial review  
document was completed and signed by Mr B. Recorded in the Advice  given section was 
SERPS opt-out. This document also included the instruction next to the Advice  given 
section: If any policy is to be terminated full details must be given. A second PPP was 
subsequently started  to receive Mr Bs redirected SERPS contributions. 
In September  1989 Mr B signed an application  to increase contributions to the first PPP. 
This was recorded on the second  personal  financial review document  as an update. 
Both PPPs were transferred to another provider in 1993.
Prudential wrote to Mr B in August 2018  as a follow-up to the industry-wide review  of 
personal pensions  sold between 1988 and 1994. Prudential explained that Mr B might not 
have received their original or subsequent invitations to have his personal  pension reviewed 
and so offered  him the opportunity to have them looked at now. 
Mr B promptly responded by letter to set out events prior to the start of the first PPP in 1988. 
He said in part that he was persuaded to start a Prudential PPP and to transfer  his former 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) benefits  into that pension arrangement.  Sometime  later 
Mr B learned that his OPS benefits had not been  transferred. Mr B said this was a result of 
Prudentials lack of due diligence and he has now lost out on those  benefits  as they were 
allegedly stolen by a third party. 
Prudential treated this letter as a complaint and issued its final response not upholding it in 
October 2018. Prudential  provided Mr B with documentation from the time of advice and 
explained that there was no reference  to him being advised to transfer any OPS benefits.  
And in fact, there wasnt  even reference to Mr B having any previous pension benefits with a 
previous employer. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr B brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into his concerns and concluded there wasnt sufficient evidence  to 
suggest that Prudential gave any advice  or recommendation in relation to Mr Bs OPS.  
Mr B didnt agree and said in summary:
-The occupational pension  scheme  was not being paid into, it was just there. Due to 
media coverage at the time regarding how wonderful private pensions  were [Mr B] 
decided to transfer the occupational  pension. [He] asked them to transfer the funds 
into their scheme  as shown by the personal financial review of May 1988.
Ref: DRN17679762-While there is no documentation regarding his request  to transfer  his OPS benefits 
there is no advice  saying that an existing scheme  should  be kept.
-Why was the Advice  given section of the May 1988 financial review completed  if he 
hadnt mentioned his OPS?
-At the time of advice,  the words  occupational  pension generally werent used; works  
pension, company  pension  or just pension  were used instead.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint is now with me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs
complaint. Ill explain  why, but before  I do, I should  emphasise that while Ive
taken serious note of the comments made  by both parties, I have limited my response to
what I consider to be the issues  central  to this complaint. 
Im also aware that Mr B has raised additional  concerns with Prudential about  other  products 
sold to him. This decision, however, relates  solely to his complaint that his OPS benefits 
werent transferred.  
Mr Bs complaint concerns events that took place  in 1988, over 30 years ago. With this sort 
of case, where  the activity being complained  about occurred many years  ago, its difficult  to 
know what was discussed at the time. Memories will have faded and what  evidence there is 
might be incomplete. So I need to decide,  on the balance of probabilities,  whats  more likely 
to have happened, given  the evidence available, including  the documents that have  been  
provided and both parties comments about  what happened at that time.  To be clear,  I am 
not reaching a conclusion  as to which parties  version of events is true.
In this case, Im not able to uphold  Mr Bs complaint because Ive simply not been provided  
with enough evidence to persuade me that Prudential provided Mr B with advice to transfer  
from his OPS in 1988 and then didnt effectuate the transfer. In fact, Im not persuaded 
Mr Bs OPS benefits were  even  discussed with Prudential at this time.
I say this because  if the first meeting with Prudential was instigated for the purpose of 
transferring Mr Bs OPS  benefits, I would expect this to be reflected  in the documents  
created at the time.  But having looked  at the first personal financial review from 1988, I can 
see Mr B was asked whether he had company pension benefits? Next to this read 
grouped pensions?  frozen pension from previous employment? The no box to the right 
has a tick mark.  The no box was also ticked next to the question Other pension  
arrangements. The same was recorded on the second personal  financial review form. I 
consider these questions to be clear and direct about the information sought. 
And I note Mr Bs signature appears on both financial reviews  below the statement I 
understand that the advice is based  on the information given by me in this Personal  
Financial Review. Given this, Im not persuaded Prudential was aware Mr B had a pension  
arrangement with a former employer. 
Mr B asserts  that since the May 1988 personal financial review includes the instruction If 
any policy is to be terminated full details must be given next to the Advice  given section 
and pension recommended was written in this box, his OPS would have to have been  
mentioned in his meeting with Prudential.  Ive thought about this, but on its face this 
Ref: DRN17679763document suggests the opposite  as no details about a terminated plan were provided, it 
seems more likely  that the advice  didnt concern ending  any pension  arrangement, including  
Mr Bs OPS.  
Also, consistent with the advice recorded at that time, Ive seen an application for a PPP with 
Mr Bs signature, dated the same as the advice in May 1988. Ive also seen an application  to 
contract-out of SERPS and redirect  contributions to a second PPP, in line with the advice 
given at the time of the second financial review. 
I appreciate what Mr Bs said about  how there  wouldnt be any evidence if Prudential  didnt 
do what he asked regarding his OPS, or if it was unsuccessful  in arranging the transfer of 
OPS benefits. And while its true that I cant know now what  was discussed at the meetings 
that took place  over 30 years ago, I consider it more likely than not that if Mr B had 
discussed his desire  to transfer his OPS  benefits  to a Prudential  PPP,  this would have been  
recorded in the written  documents produced  at the time. 
And if it wasnt,  I wouldnt expect Mr B to have  signed the personal financial reviews  without 
this information.  Given that Mr B told this service he instigated the meeting with Prudential 
for the sole purpose  of transferring his OPS, it would  be reasonable to expect  Mr B to have 
followed up with Prudential about  this at some  point during the last 30 years. But Mr B hasnt 
provided any evidence,  written or otherwise  that he pursued Prudential  about the transfer  at 
any point before this complaint was raised. 
Therefore, Im unable  to conclude on the balance  of probability that Prudential knew about 
the OPS and advised the transfer,  so it wouldnt be fair to now hold Prudential responsible 
for the transfer  not taking  place.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1767976