K821x#15complaint
Miss O is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont  consider her home 
insurance claim for subsidence damage. 
background
Miss Os late parents owned  the property she is now living in. The policy  was transferred to 
her in 2017. In April 2018 when she was having work done to the kitchen she was told by her 
builders that the property  might be suffering from subsidence damage. She made a claim to 
RSA. It sent out loss adjusters who reviewed  the damage. They  thought the damage was 
largely historic  referring to long term distortion, longstanding movement and historic 
cracking. Several areas of the property were  affected  the damage was noted as being in 
the very severe bracket  the highest  it can be.
The loss adjusters reported  back to RSA, who declined the claim. It said all the damage was 
long term and that the policy contains a condition which  advises that the insured must take 
all reasonable steps to prevent loss of, or damage  to, the property  and to maintain it in a 
sound condition.  It further pointed out that in the event of a claim it should have been told as 
soon as possible. It said those were  the conclusions of its subsidence experts  and that it 
wouldnt carry out any further investigations.
On referral to this service  our investigator  pointed  out that according to the loss adjusters 
report the historic cracking  was probably linked to the presence nearby of trees  which had 
been removed  some years previously. He noted  that the report referred  to possible causes 
of subsidence  and noted the underlying cause of movement (the tree) had been removed so 
the movement  should  not recur. So he said RSA should carry out further investigations  to 
establish if the damage was historic or if there  had been another more  recent  cause.
RSA said it and its experts agreed  that the damage  was historic. It pointed out that it would 
be entitled to reject the claim for breach of the policy terms concerning maintenance of the 
property and a failure  to report  the damage  as soon as it occurred. So it said that further 
investigations would just give Miss O false hope and would add considerably  to the cost of 
the claim.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that the policy was transferred to Miss O in 2017. The term in the policy  
concerning keeping the property in good  condition  says:
Your family must take all reasonable steps  to avoid incurring liability and prevent loss or 
damage to everything  which is covered by this insurance and to keep all the property insured
in good condition and in good repair.
I understand that the policy commenced in 2005. We dont usually consider it reasonable for 
the insurer to rely on clauses such as these unless it can show  that that the policyholder 
failed to recognise a risk or recognised a risk but deliberately courted it. Usually that means 
Ref: DRN17076512that the policyholder had behaved recklessly  or irresponsibly. Here  the property was in a 
poor state but I cant say that Miss O should have  recognised that the property was suffering 
from subsidence. I dont  think its fair to rely on that term in the policy without first 
undertaking further investigations.
RSA says that the decision  has been taken in this case by its experts.  The only expert report 
I can see was that prepared by the loss adjusters. It didnt conclude that the subsidence 
claim shouldnt  be covered It said Liability  for the damage is deferred  pending  further advice 
from insurers. And whilst I can see that RSA referred to the decision not to deal with the 
claim as being its experts' decision, I cant see any updated report, email or letter where the 
loss adjusters have  said this. It appears  likely to me that this was a claims decision  
The actual report, which doesnt appear to have been drawn  up by an engineer,  refers  to the 
nature of the damage being  historic and also appears to say that the movement was likely to 
have been halted when  the trees were removed some years previously.  But it also referred  
to possible causes of movement .being dehydration of the soil, and/or escape  of water e.g. 
leaking drains. The report, in my view, is useful as a preliminary view pending further testing.
So the possible scenarios are, that the subsidence was caused by trees which  stopped 
when the trees were removed, or that there is another  possible  more recent cause  e.g. 
escape of water due to leaking  drains. But if theres continuing movement that could only be 
discerned by crack and level monitoring.  Either way Im not convinced that it was right to turn 
down the claim without further investigations.
So I think that RSA should carry out further investigations into:
a)The likely cause of the subsidence  and how long it has been  going on.
b)Whether the property  is still moving.
Miss O should be aware that Im not saying that RSA should pay the claim. It will have to 
carry out the further investigations first. Miss O should also be aware that the cost of the 
investigation will be noted against  the claim even  if RSA decide not to pay it in the end. This 
could affect the cost of her insurance  in the future.
So overall Im not satisfied that RSA has carried out adequate investigation into the cause of 
the subsidence affecting Miss Os property. It should  carry out those investigations and 
reconsider the claim.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
Carry out appropriate investigations  into the cause of subsidence and whether movement  is 
continuing and reconsider Miss Os claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1707651