K821x#15complaint
Miss M says MYJAR Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Miss M had five loans  with MYJAR.  Ive summarised  some  of the information MYJAR 
provided about the loans  in the table below.
Loan  no. Amount  (£) Start date End date
1 100 25/04/2015 29/05/2015
2 300 30/05/2015 28/08/2015
3 125 19/09/2015 25/09/2015
4 225 28/09/2015 09/12/2015
5 200 09/12/2015 26/02/2016
Our adjudicator considered Miss Ms complaint and recommended it be upheld  in part. He 
thought MYJAR  shouldnt  have approved the fifth loan in December 2015 as it ought to have 
realised, from the way in which Miss M had been repaying her loans, that it was likely  the 
loan wouldnt be sustainable   because Miss M was likely using the loan to top up her 
income, rather than borrowing to meet a short-term need.
MYJAR didnt agree  with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to decide. 
Miss M hasnt disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion that loans 1 to 4 were lent 
responsibly, so I intend to focus only on loan 5 as its the only loan still in dispute.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN15922272the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
In its response to the adjudication, MYJAR expressed dissatisfaction about the reasons (or 
what it says was the lack of reasons) given for the recommendation to uphold the complaint 
in respect of loan 5. MYJAR said that the adjudicator  didnt engage with all of the information 
it had provided.
I can see that our adjudicator didnt comment directly on everything MYJAR provided.  I think 
thats because  he felt most of the information  it sent  which  related to its affordability and 
creditworthiness tests   was most relevant  to loans 1 to 4, which he didnt think  had been  
lent irresponsibly. As MYJAR will know, this services approach to complaints about 
short-term lending takes into account  that affordability and creditworthiness checks in the 
early stages of a lending relationship are more  likely  to have been proportionate  than those 
undertaken towards the end of a lending relationship. We also take the pattern of lending  
into account. So although the adjudicator didnt comment directly on the income, expenditure 
and credit checks MYJAR carried out for loans 1 to 4, I dont think this means he didnt 
consider it  he just didnt  think  it necessary  to explain in detail  to MYJAR why it hadnt  done 
anything wrong  by approving loans 1 to 4.
For loan 5, the adjudicator thought the pattern of lending itself demonstrated that this loan 
was likely to be unsustainable.  
Ive looked at everything independently and have  reached the same conclusion. Although 
Ive seen that MYJAR checked Miss Ms income and expenditure for each loan, Ive placed 
less weight on this for loan 5. I dont think the income and expenditure information  MYJAR 
obtained demonstrated that the lending was still sustainable. Its important  to point out that 
sustainability is a wider  concept than pounds  and pence affordability; it encompasses  the 
concept that Miss M could repay the loan without  undue difficulty  and without  the need to 
borrow again. Id also point out I havent  seen the results  of the credit check MYJAR  says it 
carried out for loan 5, so Im unable take it into account.
Ref: DRN15922273Miss M took out all of loans 2 to 5 shortly after repaying the preceding loan  usually on the 
same day, or within a few days.  So there were signs from close to the start of her borrowing 
that it might not have  been sustainable.  By loan 5, this pattern was well enough established 
that MYJAR  ought  to have realised further lending at this time wasnt  likely to be sustainable 
for her.
Although I think MYJAR ought to have realised  loan 5 wasnt likely  to be sustainable for the 
reasons given above, I have also looked at Miss Ms bank statements around the time of 
loan 5 too. What  Ive concluded above about the pattern of lending  is supported  by the bank 
statements. They support  the reasonable conclusion I reached when looking at the pattern of 
lending that Miss M wasnt  relying on high-cost short-term credit to meet  a short-term need 
but as a supplement to her income,  which doesnt  appear  to have always  been  enough  to 
meet her regular outgoings  causing her to borrow repeatedly. Its unlikely Miss M couldve 
repaid loan 5 sustainably  in these circumstances.
For these reasons, Im upholding  Miss Ms complaint  about  loan 5.
putting things right
MYJAR must refund  the interest and charges Miss M paid on loan 5, adding  8% simple 
interest per year from when Miss M paid the interest and charges until the date of 
settlement. MYJAR must  also remove any adverse information it has recorded about loan 5 
from Miss Ms credit  history.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give 
Miss M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part. MYJAR Limited must put things right by taking the steps 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1592227