K821x#15complaint
Hs complaint is about a claim  it made  under a RiverStone business legal expenses  
insurance policy for cover to pursue a claim against  a third party in respect of the 
refurbishment of a property.
The complaint is brought  by Mr D, on behalf of H. Mr D says that RiverStone unreasonably 
deducted a significant sum from a settlement agreement he entered into with the third party.
 
background
When H made a claim on its legal expenses insurance policy, RiverStone appointed  a panel 
firm to act on its behalf. The claim was settled at mediation for the sum of £150,000. 
RiverStone deducted roughly £73,000 of this which it said it would split between its claims 
handlers and the panel  firm. 
Although Mr D was informed the day before  the mediation that RiverStone would be 
deducting sums from any proposed settlement H reached,  he feels this was unfair and that H 
was forced  to settle the proceedings in this way. Mr D also feels that the way in which  the 
settlement was reached means that H should  be entitled to the entire settlement amount. 
RiverStone doesnt agree. It says Mr D went to mediation knowing that costs  would be 
deducted and that its entitled  to do this under the policy.
Our investigator considered Hs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. RiverStone 
doesnt agree so the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that it should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The starting point  is the policy terms applicable  to this claim. The policy  itself covers Hs 
reasonable and necessary legal costs.  They  also required H to enter  into a conditional fee 
arrangement with the panel firm and for the panel  firm to enter  into a collective conditional 
fee arrangement  with RiverStone. So broadly, the charging arrangement  between  the parties 
were that if the panel firm didnt win the claim, they wouldnt  be entitled to charge for their 
profit costs.
In August  2012  the panel firm sent a letter to H outlining the extent of cover and the 
circumstances in which H might become liable for the panel firms fees such as when  the 
indemnity limit on the policy  is reached. It also explained that in the event that Hs claim is 
successful, the panel  firm might seek to recover an uplift on their normal charges but that the 
policy would cover H for this. So the suggestion  was that H would be protected from the 
deduction of any charges  from a successful claim, should one be achieved. There was, as 
far as I can see, no information given to H at the start of the panel firms instruction that 
suggested H would need to agree to paying anything over to the panel firm or RiverStones 
claims handlers in any circumstances- whether that was by way of a successful claim at 
court or an early settlement. So, I think it was reasonable for Mr D to assume this wasnt a 
possibility when he agreed to their instruction  or to pursue the claim through Hs legal 
expenses insurance  policy.
Ref: DRN11507662RiverStone have  said that H was made aware of the possibility of sums being deducted from 
a settlement amount the day before the mediation took place.  But I dont think this was fair. 
This explanation was given by RiverStones claims handlers after the barrister instructed 
advised that some elements of Hs claim no longer enjoyed prospects of success. Because 
of this H was told that no cover would be available to pursue those claims at court  if the 
mediation didnt  succeed. They also went on to say "At mediation  it is common  for global 
offers to be made  or received. In essence this means that the offer is silent on how much is 
in respect of damages  and how much is for legal costs i.e. it is an overall  lump  sum". As a 
consequence they told Mr D any sums  offered would need to be apportioned between  H, the 
panel firm and its claims handlers. I dont think this gave  Mr D much  choice  but to accept  the 
position. The alternative was to reject  it and fall foul of any further  funding  by RiverStone  at 
all. As it was Mr D had been  advised Hs claim wouldnt be pursued for the full amount if 
mediation failed  and the policy placed  an obligation on him to accept a reasonable offer. 
Either way I dont believe H got the opportunity to decide  whether he wanted to take the risk 
of pursuing his claim in this way from the very outset of making its claim for cover. So whilst I 
accept that Mr D was aware  of the conditions placed on settlement before he went  into the 
mediation, I dont think they were  reasonable. 
Ive also considered the settlement agreement  H entered into. Having done so, I dont think 
RiverStones interpretation of the offer as being one that encompassed costs is correct. The 
agreement itself makes specific provision for costs in that it sets out that each party  shall 
bear their own. I appreciate that if H had incurred costs on a privately paying basis, it might  
have meant  it would pay costs out of any settlement it received. But the intention  of the 
settlement itself was very much to provide  an amount  to H that was a settlement of its claim. 
If any sums  had been payable in respect  of costs, I wouldve expected to see that reflected 
in the agreement itself. After  all the claim itself was for £421,000 with £240,000 of that 
having prospects  of succeeding at trial immediately before the mediation. The advice  Mr H 
received was that £150,000 would be viewed  as a reasonable  offer and not £77,000,  which 
is what H eventually ended up with. 
fair compensation
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think it was fair for RiverStone  to make the deductions 
it did from Hs settlement, so it should pay the sums it deducted  back to H together  with 
interest at 8% per year simple from the time it was deducted, until its reimbursed. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Hs complaint against RiverStone Insurance (UK) 
Limited and direct it to comply with my award  of fair compensation above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1150766