K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  Mr Lender provided to Mrs B between    
August 2017 and November 2018.  Mrs Bs borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 23/08/2017 16/02/2018 6 £300.00 £138.80
2 08/05/2018 23/11/2018 6 £600.00 £248.80
3 23/11/2018 10/05/2019 6 £500.00 £195.33
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint and thought Mr Lenders checks  for the 
loans went far enough. Mrs B disagreed  and said the fact she borrowed loan 3 on the same  
day she repaid loan 2 should  have indicated she was struggling financially. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN15452542Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint. Having  done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators view because  she thought Mr Lenders  checks didnt 
go far enough and it should have been aware  that she was struggling financially. So, it 
shouldnt have lent to her.
Mr Lender has told this service about the checks it carried  out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mrs B about her employment status  and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of between £1,200 and £1,700. Mr Lender also 
checked Mrs Bs normal monthly  living costs.  Mrs B declared these to be between £715  and 
£1,220 per month. Mr Lender says it also searched  Mrs Bs credit  file. Ive seen a copy  of 
those results and there werent any recent adverse  entries like defaults, county court  
judgements (CCJs) or excessive borrowing from short-term lenders recorded on it at the 
time each  of the loans were taken out.
Mrs Bs history  of borrowing with this lender was relatively  early  on  she only borrowed from 
Mr Lender three times over a 15 months  period. And even though she had to make six 
monthly repayments, the highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the 
information she declared to Mr Lender. And there  wasnt anything  in the information Mrs B 
provided which would have given Mr Lender  cause  for concern, so I think it was reasonable 
of Mr Lender to have relied on what Mrs B told it. 
I think the time Mrs B had been  indebted to Mr Lender and the information shed provided to 
it had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for Mr Lender to carry 
out. Given these, I think the checks Mr Lender  carried out before lending the loan went far 
enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more  in-depth checks. 
The information Mrs B declared to Mr Lender at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think Mr Lender was entitled  to rely 
on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what  Mr Lender knew about     
Mrs B, I wouldnt have  expected Mr Lender to verify the information  Mrs B gave  it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that its done something wrong in lending  Mrs B these loans.
Ive noted Mrs Bs representatives comments about the fact she borrowed loan 3 on the 
same day she repaid loan 2. Looking at loan 3 in isolation, it could be argued that a pattern 
was beginning  to emerge which might suggest  Mrs B was struggling to repay the loans 
sustainably. But there was an almost three-month gap between  loans 1 and 2. And loan 3 
was for a lesser amount  than loan 2 and Mrs B didnt borrow  from Mr Lender again  after she 
had repaid this loan.  So, I cant  say Mr Lender  was wrong to have provided these loans.  
I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Mrs B, but I hope my explanation will 
help her understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Ref: DRN15452543my final decision
I do not uphold  Mrs Bs complaint and make no award against PDL Finance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1545254