K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a packaged  bank account  (PBA) by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds). He says he was told he needed  a PBA to be able to access  credit (such  as loans 
and overdrafts) and that it would improve his credit score. He would like his account fees 
refunded.
background
Mr S first opened the account  in question  in November 1997.  At some point in 2001,  and 
before September, Mr S upgraded  his account to a Platinum  PBA.  The Platinum account 
didnt exist until February 2001.
At the time of the sale, the Platinum PBA cost £12 per month and came with a range of 
benefits. The key ones were a fee and interest free overdraft  buffer  of £250; discounts on 
interest rates applied  to overdrafts above £250  and loans; worldwide travel insurance;  and 
breakdown cover.
When Mr S complained to Lloyds,  it didnt think it had done  anything wrong, so he then 
brought his case  to this service. Having looked  at the evidence, the adjudicator  concluded 
that the Platinum  PBA hadnt been  mis-sold. Mr S doesnt accept that, although he hasnt  
said why, and has asked  an ombudsman to review his case.
The account  was upgraded again  in 2008, before then being downgraded to a free account 
in 2012. However,  the 2008  upgrade was done  jointly with Mr Ss ex-wife,  who has not 
brought a complaint to our service, so this decision will only be looking at the 2001 sale of 
the Platinum PBA.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to the mis-
sale of packaged  bank accounts on our website, and Ive kept this in mind  when looking into 
this complaint. Im not upholding it, and Ill explain why.
Mr S says that he was told he had to upgrade to the Platinum PBA if he wanted to access 
credit, and that having a PBA would improve his credit score. As this PBA wasnt  available  
until 2001, and Mr S had held his account since 1997, Im confident that he knew  fee free 
banking was an option for him. I can also see that he had been granted loans by Lloyds  
several times before the upgrade, while he had the fee free account.  For example,  Ive seen 
loans taken out by him in 1998  and 1999. So I think he knew  he didnt need  a paid for 
account to be given loans. 
The overdraft picture is less clear, but if he had agreed to the Platinum PBA because he was 
told he had to if he wanted an overdraft, I would expect to see an overdraft  limit being  
agreed around that time.  But it looks like the earliest overdraft arrangement  wasnt until 
2003. In the round, the evidence shows that Mr S had held a free account  for several  years, 
and had been given credit without  a PBA. So I dont think its likely that he agreed  to the PBA 
because he thought he had to for that reason.  I think he decided  to upgrade, knowing that it 
was his choice.
Ref: DRN11213882Everyone agrees  that Lloyds recommended the Platinum PBA to Mr S, which  means it 
needed to check  it was a reasonable fit for his circumstances. At the time of the sale, the 
evidence strongly  suggests  that Mr S travelled overseas and used a car, so it seems that 
those benefits  could have been of use to him. (In fact, he went  on to use the breakdown 
cover several times, although not until 2005.) It may also be that the banking benefits  (lower 
interest rates on overdrafts and loans) were a significant attraction. I can see that he took out 
a loan in February  2001, which may well have been  linked  to the upgrade,  and motivated Mr 
S to agree to the PBA.
Its very possible  that Lloyds didnt  tell Mr S everything it ought to have about the benefits of 
the PBA. But that doesnt mean I should uphold  his complaint. I would additionally  need  to 
think that a lack of information has caused  him to miss out  that is, that he wouldnt have 
agreed to the PBA if hed known more about  it. But I havent seen anything which leads me 
to conclude that if hed had more  or better information about the PBA he would have 
declined to take it. So he hasnt lost out.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds doesnt  need to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1121388