K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says MYJAR  Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  MYJAR Limited provided to Mrs P between  
September and December 2015.  Mrs Ps lending  history is as follows:
Loan one for £350 taken in September 2015  and to be repaid in six monthly  instalments,  
the highest being £102.05. This loan was repaid early. 
Loan two for £150 taken in October 2015  and repaid in one instalment of £189.60. This 
was repaid on time. 
Loan three for £300 taken in December 2015 and to be repaid in six monthly instalments 
with the highest being £88.61. A balance remains outstanding.
MYJAR Limited made  an offer of redress for loans one and two and to offset this against the 
outstanding balance for loan three.  It also offered to set up a repayment  plan for loan three.  
But Mrs P was unhappy with that. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Mrs P disagreed  and the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR Limited needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR Limited should fairly  and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN19328712There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR Limited was required to 
establish whether  Mrs P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ps complaint.
MYJAR Limited has already offered Mrs P the redress  wed require for loans one and two. 
So I wont  consider  these two loans further except as they form part of Mrs Ps borrowing 
history. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan three would most likely have 
shown that Mrs P could  afford her repayments  sustainably:
Mrs P had repaid  loans one and two successfully so she had developed  a good 
borrowing history with MYJAR Limited.   
Mrs P had stated her monthly  income  as £1,200  and her monthly  outgoings as £384.  
This left her with a disposable  income of £816 to meet her highest monthly repayment of 
£88.61. So this looked affordable.
MYJAR Limited carried out credit checks for loan three. I cant  see anything untoward in 
what it found that should have  then prompted further questions.
I dont think Mrs Ps history with MYJAR Limited should have alerted it that she was 
experiencing financial difficulties. 
So MYJAR Limited asked  Mrs P for information  about her income and expenditure and it 
carried out credit checks. Given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mrs Ps 
circumstances at the time and her history  with MYJAR Limited, I dont think  it wouldve been  
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mrs P provided or the information 
MYJAR Limited shouldve  been  aware  of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to 
start verifying what Mrs P was saying. 
So I cant say MYJAR  Limited  was wrong  to have  approved loan three for Mrs P. 
Ref: DRN19328713my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1932871