K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained that Nationwide Building  Society hasnt refunded money  she 
accidentally transferred to an account  she held for her son.
background
In September  2018 Mrs P wanted to transfer £1,000  from her Nationwide  savings account to 
her Nationwide current account. She used a mobile banking  app to make the transfer but 
she transferred the money by mistake  to a junior ISA account she held for her son.
Mrs P asked Nationwide to transfer the money  back to her. It told her it couldnt do this 
because withdrawals from the junior  ISA account  werent allowed by legislation  until her son 
was eighteen.  Mrs P complained but Nationwide  didnt  change its position. She then referred 
her complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think  
Nationwide had made an error and thought it had correctly  followed  the terms and conditions  
of the junior ISA account.
Mrs P didnt agree with our adjudicators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P says the error  occurred because Nationwide added her sons junior ISA to the 
accounts she was able to access on the mobile banking app. She says before she made the 
transfer in September 2018 she could  only access her current account and her savings  
account and she thought  these were the only accounts she had.
Nationwide has provided evidence to show Mrs P opened the junior ISA for her son in 2013.  
It recorded Mrs P as the individual  responsible for the account. It says it had two separate 
profiles for Mrs P on its systems which were  merged in August 2018. Mrs P wouldnt have 
seen the junior  ISA on the mobile  banking app until after the profiles  had been  merged.
I appreciate that Mrs P wouldnt have expected to see the junior ISA on the mobile  banking  
app when she used  it in September 2018.  But the app clearly  displays the names of 
accounts to which funds can be transferred. After she completed the details of the transfer 
Mrs P would have been shown  the name of the account the money was being  transferred to 
and asked to confirm the details were correct.
Given the above I think Mrs P should have been aware she was transferring money to the 
junior ISA. Im not persuaded I could reasonably require Nationwide to override the terms 
and conditions of the junior ISA and transfer the money back  to Mrs P.
Ref: DRN15990062my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1599006