K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold her a 
packaged bank  account, called the Ultimate  Reward Current  Account (URCA) in 2008. 
Mrs C paid a monthly  fee for the account  and received  several potential  benefits in return. 
She thinks that Bank of Scotland should  refund  her all the fees she paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Cs complaint and didnt think  that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold  the URCA to her. 
Mrs C didnt agree with adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review her 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mrs Cs complaint.  Ive 
looked into everything that Mrs C and Bank  of Scotland have told us or sent us about the 
case and Ive decided  not to uphold  it. Ill explain why. 
Mrs C had banked with Bank of Scotland for quite a long time before it sold her the URCA. 
Bank of Scotland has told us that she held a fee-free account  continuously  from the 1990s 
until changing to the URCA in 2008 and I have no reason  to disbelieve  it about this.
Its now over a decade since Bank  of Scotland sold the URCA to Mrs C and not surprisingly 
neither party  has been able to send us fully detailed  records from the time, so I cant  tell for 
sure exactly  what  happened. Instead, I have used the evidence that I do have available to 
determine what is most likely to have occurred. 
Mrs C has told us that Bank of Scotland recommended  the URCA to her. Bank of Scotland 
has disagreed, it has said that it sold the URCA to Mrs C on an information only  basis. 
If Bank of Scotland did recommend the URCA to Mrs C, it would have had to check that the 
URCA was right for her financial situation  and tell her about its features fairly  and clearly  so 
she could decide  if she wanted it. Mrs C has been very consistent in her view about this. She 
recently told us that it is absolutely untrue for Bank  of Scotland to say it didnt advise her to 
change to the URCA. She has said that she went into one of Bank of Scotlands branches on 
other matters and that Bank of Scotland told her that her fee-free account was old fashioned 
and invited her to meet an adviser  to discuss changing to the URCA. Shes said that she 
agreed to meet the adviser who then advised  her to upgrade  to the URCA. 
Although I cant be certain what happened, I fully accept  that Mrs C believed at the time that 
Bank of Scotland was recommending the URCA to her and I have assessed her complaint 
on this basis. I will return to the question  as to whether it was reasonable for Bank  of 
Scotland to make  this recommendation later.
Ref: DRN18594992The crux of Mrs Cs complaint concerns the overdraft  that the URCA offered compared to 
what was available  with her fee-free account, and the fees she had to pay for the URCA. 
Shes told us that during her meeting  with the adviser, Bank  of Scotland  mis-led her into 
thinking that she could only have an overdraft  with the URCA,  not with her fee-free account, 
and that it never told her about the monthly fees she would have to pay for the URCA. Shes 
said that Bank of Scotland told her that the URCA was the only account  available  with an 
overdraft facility and that there was no mention at all of any charges for (it). 
Bank of Scotland has sent us copies of some  of Mrs Cs bank statements from the periods 
just before and just after she bought the URCA.  These show that Mrs C already had an 
overdraft facility  with her fee-free account;  and that she used it quite regularly. They  also 
show that she continued to use it after she switched to the URCA.
I cant see any reason why Bank of Scotland would have stopped Mrs C from using  the 
overdraft on her fee-free account and I dont think it could have misled her into thinking she 
couldnt overdraw  that account. This would  have contradicted her own experience  in the 
period just before the meeting. So I think its unlikely that Bank of Scotland told Mrs M that 
the URCA was the only account available with an overdraft facility. 
Similarly, I think its likely that Bank of Scotland told Mrs C that she would have to pay for the 
URCA. If she took the account, the fees would appear on her statements and I dont think 
Bank of Scotland tried to hide them from her. I also think it would have told her about the 
main potential benefits she could get in return.  After  all, Bank of Scotland was trying to sell 
the URCA to Mrs C, and it would have been  in its own interests  to tell her what  she could 
gain if she bought it. 
I also think its unlikely that Bank  of Scotland told Mrs C that she had to change accounts. 
She was used to a fee-free account and such accounts were  widely  available in the United 
Kingdom at the time, so I dont think Bank of Scotland would have told her that she had to 
start paying a fee. 
Mrs C has also mentioned  that when Bank of Scotland  first offered her the URCA she felt 
quite privileged to be given the opportunity to switch.  I fully accept that she no longer feels 
this way, but Im not convinced that Bank  of Scotland  denied her a choice to keep her fee-
free account, with its overdraft facility, or switch to the URCA. I think  its more likely that 
Bank of Scotland told Mrs C about the URCA and its potential  benefits and about how much 
it would  cost her, and she chose to take it. 
Returning now to the question  of whether Bank  of Scotland behaved reasonably in 
recommending the URCA to Mrs C. 
One of the potential benefits of the URCA was that it offered customers lower  interest  rates 
on overdrafts than Bank of Scotlands  fee-free accounts. Given  the extent to which Mrs C 
used her overdraft, I think this may have been  attractive for her and may have  given Bank of 
Scotland grounds on which  to make its recommendation.
Some of the other potential benefits of the URCA included travel  insurance and car 
breakdown cover. I understand that Mrs C travelled abroad from time-to-time and also drove  
a car. So I can also see that Bank of Scotland may have based its recommendation on these 
potential needs,  alongside the lower cost overdraft.
Ref: DRN18594993Mrs C has told us very strongly that she didnt want these other potential  benefits of the 
URCA. For example, she has told us that none of the insurances were  of any interest  to 
(her).....(she) only required an overdraft.. She has gone on to say that when she needed 
travel insurance she arranged alternative  cover.  However, as Im satisfied that Bank  of 
Scotland gave  Mrs C a choice to buy the URCA or to keep her fee-free  account,  given her 
circumstances, I think  its recommendation was fair and reasonable. I also think its quite 
possible that at the time Mrs C may have found some these potential  benefits to have been 
useful for her, although  I fully accept  that she no longer  thinks so.
 
So in summary,  I cant tell if Bank of Scotland got everything right when it sold the URCA to 
Mrs C; but Im satisfied that it did tell her about  the fees she would have to pay and the 
potential benefits  she could gain, and gave  her a choice to switch or to keep her fee-free 
account. 
I also think it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland to recommend  the URCA to Mrs C. I dont 
think it mis-sold  the account  to her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Cs complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.  
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1859499