K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mr P says HSBC  Bank Plc mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
HSBC hasnt been able to provide paperwork from the sale.  This isnt surprising 
considering the length of time since the sale. HSBC  has however referred us to a sample  
credit agreement, like that which wouldve been  used  in Mr Ps sale.  Looking  at this, I 
think its likely Mr P wouldve had to tick and sign separately to say he wanted the PPI. 
This is also in line with what we know generally  about how HSBC  sold policies like 
Mr Ps around this time. On balance, I think its likely that HSBC made it clear that Mr P 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose  to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember  this.
Based  on the evidence on file I think its likely  HSBC recommended  the PPI to Mr P -so it 
had to check that the PPI was right for him and based on what Ive seen  of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he seems  to have had a need  for the 
cover.  Mr P says he wouldve received some  sick pay. The PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to any employee benefits he wouldve received  and for up to 12 months if he 
was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness or unemployment. So I think  he 
wouldve found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P. 
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because : 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN17166162The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P. 
But HSBC  Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
think HSBC Bank Plc needs to do any more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.  
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1716616