K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Mr T and Miss B say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them the MPPI. 
Mr T and Miss B were  sold a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP).  TMPP can be split into 
sections, namely Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of MMPPI), Life Cover and Critical 
Illness Cover (CIC).
Mr T and Miss B have  complained about the MPPI cover so Ive only looked at the sale of the 
MPPI element of the package  in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr T and Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr T and Miss B say that they didnt know the MPPI was optional. BoS isnt able to provide a 
copy of Mr T and Miss Bs mortgage  application   although this isnt unusual  for a sale that 
took place so long ago, and businesses arent  required to keep records  indefinitely. But BoS 
has been able to provide  copies of paperwork that was in use at the time. This shows that 
the MPPI  policy wouldve been presented as optional. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that BoS did anything differently when it sold the MPPI to Mr T and Miss B. So I 
think its more likely  that the policy was presented as optional.  
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr T and Miss B so it had to check  that the MPPI  was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI  cover 
and they seem to have  had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr T and Miss B about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think they chose  to take it out - it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the MPPI would have  
put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr T and Miss B have  said - including what  they have said 
about having good sick pay and savings they couldve used to make their repayments. But 
the MPPI  couldve paid out on top of their sick pay  and protected  their savings for other 
uses. So this point doesnt change  my decision  and for the reasons set out above,  I dont 
think the MPPI was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to give Mr T and Miss B some of the commission 
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr T and Miss Bs 
mortgage was a regulated mortgage they dont apply. So BoS doesnt need to refund any of 
the commission Mr T and Miss B paid for the MPPI they had with that mortgage.
Ref: DRN10665522my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1066552