K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about advice he says he received from BDO Northern Ireland (BDONI) 
with regard to his pension plan. Specifically, hes said the following:
He was assured  that the investment for his pensions funds was  low risk and had a 
guaranteed income  stream
The investment  scheme  hadnt  received HMRC approval, nor had this been  sought.
The pension funds  were invested  in a residential  property scheme, which 
subsequently collapsed. This has left him with a further tax liability. 
This was his total pension fund, which had been  transferred from his final salary 
scheme.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 7 June 2019 a copy of which is attached  and forms part 
of this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained that it appeared that the driving 
force behind the pension  transfer was Mr Ts intent to invest  in the property  scheme 
arrangement accessible  through a Self Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP).
I agreed that the transfer and investment in the property scheme was a high-risk  move. 
However, BDONI had categorised Mr T as a high-risk investor based on his circumstances 
and risk appetite  recorded at the time,  as well as his past investment history. Having  
considered everything, I felt that this categorisation was fair based on the evidence provided. 
And that Mr T was informed of and prepared to take the risks attached to the planned 
transfer and investment strategy.
The evidence suggested that Mr T had prior discussions with the third party acting for the 
property scheme before  BDONI facilitated the transfer and made its recommendations. Mr T 
chose to act against the advice given by BDONI specifically in respect of his final salary  
pension, which was to not transfer. Because of this, I felt that on the balance of probabilities, 
Mr T wouldve gone ahead with the property  scheme arrangement  in the event  BDONI  had 
said it was unsuitable  for him.
I also explained that the type of arrangement  recommended by BDONI (to set up a debt 
within his pension)  wasnt unsuited to Mr Ts risk appetite, nor was it otherwise inconsistent 
with other  aspects of his investment profile  and business experience.
It was for all these reasons combined that I concluded that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr Ts response  is summarised below:
He relied solely  on professional advice for pension matters   this is outside  his area 
of expertise. He is not a skilled investor that understands the complexities  of pension 
arrangements.
BDONI and the third party  gave the impression  that they were working closely 
together and that the scheme would work. BDONI said itd done substantial due 
diligence and other BDONI clients had invested. He relied solely  on it and if BDONI 
had advised against  the scheme or refused to facilitate, Mr T wouldnt and couldnt 
have invested.
Ref: DRN10388742Mr T sent us a copy of an email  between the third party and BDONI in 2012 which 
stated BDONI wouldnt advise potential clients on final salary schemes and they 
wouldnt act on an execution only basis. Mr T says this shows  that BDONI acted on 
the basis of a clear  financial  incentive  and went against its standard  procedure and 
despite the official calculations and the execution only document handed to him, 
BDONI led him to transfer and make  the investment.
BDONI responded  only in relation to the email that Mr T supplied:
It said it was surprised  to see that Mr T had an email  between it and the third party  
considering he had gone to great  lengths  to distance himself  from the third party.  It 
said it would be interested to know  how he got a copy of this.
In any event it knows that Mr T had been  involved  with other investors  of the property 
scheme and Mr T had proposed a new investment opportunity to recoup  funds  
which is at odds  with him saying he doesnt understand investment matters.
The email was sent two years  after Mr T had invested in the property scheme.
The investment  referred  to in the email  was completely separate to the property 
scheme Mr T invested in. It came about  after it was asked to clarify  how it would deal 
with clients referred  to it in respect of that investment.
BDONI at that time had decided to move out of the defined  benefit space and its 
internal procedures at that time were  to not carry out execution only business or 
defined benefit  transfers.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my view of this complaint  has not changed. I know that Mr T will be 
disappointed with this but the additional  evidence and comments  provided have largely 
already been considered and so havent  given me any reason to depart from the conclusions  
I reached in my provisional  decision. In fairness to Mr T Ill explain why.
Mr T says that he shouldnt be classed as a skilled/experienced investor whos  able or willing 
to accept high-risk investments. But as I set out in my provisional decision,  Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time of advice and what was recorded at the time, in my view show that 
this classification was fair. Furthermore,  Mr T signed  and dated  a document  agreeing that he 
was happy to proceed on the basis that he was a sophisticated high risk investor based on 
his previous experience. And whilst Ive considered what  hes told us, the evidence recorded 
and Mr Ts circumstances  at the time in my view are the most persuasive.
Mr T has also said that the picture painted by BDONI of the investment was that it would 
work and that the relevant  due diligence had been done. He said that had BDONI advised 
him against this or not agreed to facilitate  it, he wouldnt  have gone ahead with it. But as 
discussed in my provisional  decision, the evidence shows  that BDONI  had advised  Mr T 
against the pension transfer but he chose to go ahead  in any event. I know that Mr T 
disagrees with this finding, but I dont think its necessary  to explain my view on this again. 
So, much as I said in the provisional decision,  on balance I think Mr T wouldve gone  ahead 
down the same path in the event that BDONI had advised him against the investment. 
Ref: DRN10388743Mr T also made the point  that BDONI were the only party  that couldve facilitated the 
investment in the property scheme. I dont  necessarily  agree that this wouldve been the 
case but in any event even if it advised him against  investing, I see no reason why Mr T 
couldnt have  gone down  the insistent client route again to make the investment. Given  that 
BDONI was prepared to treat Mr T as an insistent client  in respect of the defined benefit 
transfer, theres nothing  to indicate  it wouldnt have been willing  to do so in respect of the 
property scheme. 
I do think its clear  that there  was intent from Mr T to invest in the property scheme with the 
third party. As I said the driving force behind this might have been the third party  but I can 
only consider BDONI  and Mr Ts actions in this decision. And I dont think what  BDONI did in 
facilitating Mr Ts investment in the property scheme  was unreasonable considering the 
particular circumstances  of this case and Mr Ts circumstances  at the time.
In regards to the email  between the third party and BDONI about potential clients  investing in 
a Student  Accommodation  Fund, I dont think this is particularly relevant here. The email is 
dated some  time after Mr T had invested in the property scheme. And it does appear, as 
BDONI have  said, to be about  a completely separate scheme  to that which Mr T invested  in.
The regulators rules didnt prevent BDONI carrying out business  for insistent clients,  and 
that was essentially  a matter for BDONI to exercise  its commercial  judgement  on  after 
taking into account  its obligations to deal fairly  with clients. If BDONI was taking a different 
approach in this area for example with execution only business, it was entitled  to change its 
internal procedures. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that BDONI couldnt  give advice on 
defined benefit  transfers at the time Mr T transferred, or that it breached any rules  in treating 
him as an insistent client.
I do have sympathy with the position  that Mr T has found himself  in but I dont think the 
responsibility for this lies with BDONI for the reasons  Ive explained here and in my 
provisional decision. I recognise  that Mr T asked that we provide BDONIs written comments 
on the email he provided before reaching  a final decision. However, I dont think this is 
necessary as I dont  think the email is significant or relevant  to my findings for the reasons 
explained.
So it follows  that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ts complaint against  BDO Northern  Ireland and make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10388744provisional decision
complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about advice he says he received from BDO  Northern Ireland  with regard to his 
pension plan.  Specifically, hes said the following:
He was assured that the investment  for his pensions  funds  was  low risk and had a 
guaranteed income stream
The investment scheme hadnt received HMRC  approval, nor had this been sought.
The pension  funds were  invested in a residential  property scheme, which subsequently 
collapsed. This has left him with a further tax liability. 
This was his total pension fund, which  had been transferred from his final salary  scheme.
background
According to the available documentation, Mr T met with a representative  of BDONI  in early 2010, at 
which point the possibility of transferring his deferred final salary benefits into a Self Invested  
Personal Pension (SIPP) was discussed. BDONI undertook  a transfer analysis,  and wrote to Mr T on 
26th January  2010 with the outcome. The conclusion was that, on the basis of the critical yield, it 
would not recommend  that Mr T transfer the benefits to an alternate  pensions plan.
It was then recorded  in a meeting note that, on 29 January 2010,  Mr T met with BDONI  again for the 
purpose of discussing the opportunity further. It was recorded in meeting  notes that Mr T wished to 
transfer these benefits to a more flexible arrangement, but that, (as above) having undertaken a 
transfer analysis, BDONI had written to him setting out its advice to not transfer those  benefits.  This 
was based predominantly on the critical yield required to match  those scheme benefits.
However, the same  meeting note recorded that Mr T was nevertheless still keen to transfer those  
benefits  hence the meeting. 
 Mr Ts circumstances  at the time were  recorded as follows:
He was married  with one daughter
He had a number of companies running  with a business partner,  with a most  recent annual  
turnover of approximately £5m
Mr T took income from his companies totalling approximately £100,000 pa
A company  pension  arrangement had loaned money back to the company, which had been used to 
buy property as an investment. The idea had been to refinance on the value of the property  to repay  
the pensions loan, but due to a fall in property prices, this hadnt been possible.  There  was also a plan 
to buy a larger  warehouse  to house his companys stock.
The result  of the meeting  was recorded as being that Mr T wished to proceed with the transfer of his 
final salary  benefits as soon as possible. The required documentation to do so was given to Mr T to 
sign. It was recorded that Mr T was happy to proceed on the basis that he was a sophisticated,  high 
risk investor, based on his property investment  portfolio and previous  business experience.
A fact find completed  on the same date also recorded the following information:
There was a third party adviser in relation  to the investment proposition  a property scheme. 
Ref: DRN10388745Mr T was a homeowner, but with no further information given
Mr Ts income was £100,000, and he expected this to rise in the future, given the 
performance of his companies
His company interests included a directorship of an internet sales company and two further 
businesses. He also had a 12.5% stake in a distribution  company
He owned a substantial property portfolio between himself and his business partner
No expenditure  details were given, but Mr T confirmed that he was very comfortable
Mr T had no plans to retire in the near future  and he was in good health
He had another frozen  pension scheme  and was a member  of a company pension 
scheme.
Mr Ts only recorded  priority was to move to a more flexible pension  arrangement in order to 
make pension  investments.
His investment experience was recorded  as being experienced  investor with good investment 
knowledge. This was accompanied by a statement  that, if the stock market declined by 20%, he 
would take advantage of the lower price to make further investment  rather than selling his current  
holding or doing nothing and waiting  for investment  returns to improve.
Mr T required the following features  from an investment portfolio, in priority order:  access, growth, tax-
efficiency, income, and guarantees.
From a selection of risk ratings of low risk, low to medium  risk, medium risk, medium to high risk, and 
high risk, Mr T was categorised as being high  risk. The accompanying comment  was that Mr Ts 
attitude to risk is classified as high,  in particular with regard to the transfer of his final salary  pension.
Mr T signed and dated the document to confirm  the accuracy of the information and that it would form 
the basis  of the advice given.
In a pension planning  report  dated 4 February 2010, it was recorded that Mr T was insistent on 
making the pension transfer, and that BDONI had therefore facilitated that request to transfer the 
pension funds  into a SIPP. 
It was recorded that Mr T has a strong knowledge  of investment and pensions contracts and took an 
active interest in following investment markets and reviewing his financial planning.
It was also noted that market fluctuations had been discussed, and how these might  generate growth 
or income within the investments. But also how exposure to risk meant that he could  close some or all 
of his investment   but it was recorded  that Mr T had been comfortable with fluctuations in the value 
of his investments  in the past.
To achieve Mr Ts aims,  BDONI recommended that he transfer  into a SIPP and then invest  in an 
Offshore Unit Trust   in its cash fund. This would  provide the liquidity required for future investment.
This further investment arrangement  was a property  scheme. This was designed to provide a high 
level of interest,  by way of investment in multiple  occupancy  residential properties in the UK. It was 
the rental of those properties  which  would  provide the income stream. And this was to be facilitated by 
way of creating  a scheme debt. This would mean that the SIPP would  sell an asset to the scheme 
member by way of the debt and this would be repaid to the SIPP with interest.  It enabled funds to be 
moved outside the SIPP  into Mr Ts name (for a ten year period until they were repaid),  so that they 
could be invested  in the property scheme.  This was described as being  permissible under HMRC 
rules  although this might be subject to change in the future.
Ref: DRN10388746Mr T was informed that if the terms of the loan werent adhered to or the loan wasnt repaid,  HMRC 
could deem  the debt to be an unauthorised payment, with tax charge  ramifications. This debt 
arrangement with the scheme was subsequently put in place.
From further meeting notes made in May 2012,  I can see that Mr T expressed concern that the 
property scheme arrangement wasnt working in the way he thought  it would   he was receiving 
interest payments of £1,545 pm, but his understanding of properties being  bought with the invested 
money hadnt been fulfilled. He expressed a desire to withdraw his funds from the property scheme, 
for reinvestment in a new company. 
In September 2012, Mr T first raised concerns about payment problems with the property scheme 
investment. But BDONI  were  unable to give details on this as it said it had been involved with the 
pension advice rather than the reinvestment.
By November  2013, it seems that repayments to the debt had stopped,  but negotiations were ongoing  
as to what could be repaid  by Mr T in the future. It was then confirmed later in November 2013  that 
the trustees of the SIPP had agreed to a lower monthly  repayment.
Mr T complained about  the arrangement in October 2014,  but as no response was received  from the 
business, he referred the matter to this service  in May 2015.
As part of the adjudicators investigation into the matter,  she asked Mr T several questions  relating  to 
his circumstances  at the time of the transfer and advice to enter the SIPP. In summary, the 
adjudicator enquired as to what interest payments had been made  to him from the property scheme  
arrangement, whether any properties had been bought on his behalf, why he had acted against the 
advice to not transfer his deferred pension  benefits,  and whether he had other pension funds.  Mr T 
was also asked  whether  he was still repaying the debt to his SIPP.
Mr T gave details of the income hed received from the property scheme, but he said that no 
properties had been bought with his investment.  He also said that the details relied on in the transfer 
analysis didnt  mean  much to him, but that he was encouraged at all times by BDONI to transfer his 
pension fund.  He said he was told to go ahead, despite the advice  against doing  so, as the new 
arrangement would offer much more flexibility.  Furthermore, he asserted that he didnt understand the 
structure under  which investment was then made in property scheme and that BDONI  refused to give 
him further information  about  it. 
Mr T also said that he had no other pension arrangements and that he was repaying the debt to the 
SIPP at £200pm. He confirmed his understanding  that the property scheme went bust in September  
2012, with no assets remaining.
provisional findings  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
At the outset,  I sincerely apologise for the time its taken to resolve this matter. Its extremely 
unfortunate that its taken the time it has, and I appreciate the concern  and any distress this may have 
caused.
Was Mr T an insistent customer?
Ive firstly considered the business assertion that Mr T was an insistent client, who, in transferring his 
deferred final salary scheme benefits,  was acting against the advice given. This is complicated by the 
Ref: DRN10388747presence of the third party adviser who, it seems, introduced Mr T to BDONI. This is because its 
unclear to me as to how certain  Mr T himself was that the transfer from the scheme was his intended 
course of action.
Certainly the letter to Mr T recommending that he not transfer his pension funds  was clear in what  it 
was saying.  And there were no mixed  messages  in that letter about the benefits of doing  it in any 
case. So I dont think Mr T could have been left under any other impression having  read the content of 
that letter.
Im of course  mindful  of Mr Ts recollection  that what  he was being told was quite different to content 
of the letter. But Mr T was an experienced  businessman,  who had involvement in several seemingly 
successful companies. And I must take into account the extent to which  he must  have appreciated  the 
risk he was taking by accepting verbal  assurances  which  ran in stark  contrast to a letter which was 
clear in its recommendation not to proceed. Even if Mr T believed this to be a papering exercise to tick 
regulatory boxes, my view is that a reasonable  man in his position ought to have  realised that 
something wasnt quite right with that situation of opposing written and verbal views.
If I am to add to that mix the involvement of the third party, who I understand was involved in 
introducing Mr T to the property scheme arrangement  to begin with, Im inclined to believe that BDONI 
would have been justified  in concluding that Mr T was indeed set on the path of transferring his 
deferred pension  benefits.
This is also borne out by the meeting notes from the time, which recorded  that Mr T wished to ignore 
our recommendation  not to transfer the Final salary and BDONI to facilitate this.  Again, Im mindful of 
the involvement of the third party and to what extent Mr T may have been influenced by them  but 
this complaint is against BDONI, rather than the third party. 
Was the subsequent investment recommendation  suitable?
Even if Im satisfied that Mr T was acting in the capacity of an insistent client in transferring his 
deferred pension  funds, the resulting recommendation still needed to have been in his best interests.  
Having categorised  Mr T as an insistent client, BDONI recommended that he transfer his pension 
funds into a SIPP, for investment within an overseas investment bond.  The debt scheme  established 
to facilitate the transfer of the pension  funds for reinvestment outside of the SIPP was not a run of the 
mill arrangement. BDONI was confident that it adhered to HMRC guidance  on such matters, and any 
determination on that I would leave  to HMRC itself. That,  in any case, doesnt seem  to have been the 
deciding factor in the success or failure  of the property scheme arrangement.
As Ive said,  the debt arrangement was unusual, perhaps presenting in itself a higher risk of failure  for 
Mr T - and my view is that the reinvestment of those proceeds into the property scheme  arrangement  
was also a high risk venture.  
Its worth noting at this point  that it isnt enough  for a business to give advice to transfer into a SIPP 
without giving  consideration to the purpose of that transfer and the use of the funds  within  the SIPP   
so the overall  strategy.  This is set out in the regulators  rules and is a position  which it (and its 
predecessor) has reiterated in several  updates  over time. So BDONI had to be satisfied that the debt 
scheme and reinvestment was suitable for Mr T. 
In my consideration of whether this was suitable for Mr T, Ive assessed his circumstances and 
objectives as recorded at the time of the advice.  And there are several key indicators within the 
recorded information that Mr T was indeed  prepared  to accept a high risk investment strategy. 
Ref: DRN10388748Perhaps the most prominent is Mr Ts recorded risk rating  the highest possible of the available  
selection. The accompanying description  of the high  risk rating  was as follows:
A high risk investor is willing to accept a high level of risk in return  for the potential  higher returns  in 
the longer term.  They recognise that this may result in the value of their portfolio  fluctuating,  possibly  
significantly, in the short term.  They  are aware  that the risks  are such that a significant 
percentage of the capital sum could  be lost. (my emphasis)
So whilst I appreciate that the reality  of this occurring may have cast a very different light on things,  
Mr T nevertheless indicated at the time that he was prepared to accept  the kind of losses described  
above.
Mr Ts listed priorities from his investment  are also indicative of an investor  who was prepared to 
accept high levels of risk for the sake of access  and growth.  For me, its notable  that the concept of 
investment guarantees  was designated  last place.
Mr T was also recorded as being an experienced private investor  with good investment  knowledge.  
And, crucially,  this would be consistent with other aspects of his business  life. There  are strong 
indicators that Mr T was an individual who was seeking new  perhaps innovative - ways  of investing 
to produce a return. Again, the impression  formed is of an experienced  businessman who 
successfully ran several companies and enjoyed  the fruits of this in living a comfortable life.
Mr T has said that he had no other pension  arrangements, and no records were  made  of other assets 
held, other  than him being a homeowner. But the records made at the time indicate  that Mr T had 
both another  frozen pension and that he was a member of a company  pension (which was itself 
involved in loaning money to the company). Theres clearly a contradiction here in terms of pension 
assets held, but, given other  features of Mr Ts likely investment profile,   I dont think  its one on which 
I necessarily need to make  a finding.
My overall view is that the type of arrangement  recommended  by BDONI wasnt incompatible  with Mr 
Ts risk appetite, or that it was otherwise inconsistent with other aspects  of his likely  investment profile 
and business experience.
Would Mr T have  invested  anyway?
Ive also considered whether, had BDONI advised against the entirety of the investment strategy, Mr 
T would in any case have proceeded. This isnt an easy question to answer, and involves a high 
degree of supposition. But on a fair and reasonable basis, my view is that Mr T is more likely than not 
to have proceeded. And my reasoning is as follows   Mr T had already received unequivocal advice 
(albeit disputed by Mr T in actual conversations held) in the letter of 26 January 2010 to not transfer 
his deferred final salary  benefits. But he did so in any case.
My overall impression is that investment in the property scheme arrangement  was the driver behind 
this  it wasnt an opportunity which subsequently happened to present itself, once  the pension funds 
had been transferred.  So there was already an investment plan. As Ive already said, it may well be 
the case  that the third party involved was the actual driving force behind the whole arrangement, but 
given Mr Ts investment and business experience, I think this would nevertheless have manifested 
itself in a clear intent from Mr Ts perspective. And so, given the additional  factor of Mr T deciding  to 
proceed with the transfer of pension benefits (which was against advice  to not do so), even if BDONI 
had advised against every  aspect of the investment strategy, I consider that Mr T is more  likely than 
not to have  proceeded.
Ref: DRN10388749summary
This was certainly, in my view, a high risk venture. And for many individuals, I think  it would have 
presented too high a risk. But the question I must ask, on a fair and reasonable basis, is whether this 
was incompatible with the type of risk Mr T was prepared,  or in a position, to tolerate. Overall, given 
the records  made about Mr Ts circumstances,  experience and risk appetite,  I dont think  this was the 
case. 
my provisional  decision
My current view is that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.  I know this will disappoint  Mr T  and both 
parties have  the opportunity  to respond to the points made above. I would  ask, however, that if either 
party wishes to respond, that it does so within  three weeks of the date of this decision.
Ref: DRN1038874