K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained that Close  Brothers Limited  made errors when it tried to collect  
payment for his car and motor trade  insurance policies. 
background 
Mr B bought a car insurance policy  and a motor trade policy through a broker in April 2018.  
He agreed to pay for the policies under a credit agreement with Close  Brothers in monthly 
instalments.
Mr B complained that Close  Brothers  caused  errors  when it tried to collect  payment. He said 
this led to his decision  to cancel his policies.  Mr B was unhappy with the amount he owed on 
cancellation. 
The broker  replied to Mr Bs complaint. It agreed  to waive its cancellation fee as a gesture of 
goodwill for some poor service it provided. 
Our investigator initially recommended Mr Bs complaint  should  be upheld  against Close  
Brothers. He thought  there had been  some administration  issues  caused between the broker 
and Close  Brothers. 
Close Brothers said it didnt receive  a complaint  from Mr B about the collection of payments. 
It received a separate complaint which it replied to. But its provided us with its file notes.  It 
said it tried to collect payments when  they were due but was unsuccessful.  
After reviewing the additional evidence,  the investigator changed his mind.  He thought Close  
Brothers had acted reasonably. 
Mr B didnt agree. In March 2019 he told us he had sufficient funds in his account when 
Close Brothers said it tried to collect payment. Mr B said he would send us this evidence.  
Unfortunately we havent received any documents from Mr B. Mr B called us on 24 June 
2019 to reiterate that his account had sufficient  funds.  He said the payment was set up as a 
standing order. He believes  it was Close Brothers errors that led to payments not being 
collected  because it was able to collect the initial payment from his card details. 
Close Brothers said that even if Mr B was able to provide evidence of sufficient funds  in his 
account, it relied on the instruction it received from the bank. It says it therefore  applied its 
fees fairly  and in line with its terms and conditions. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr B entered into an agreement with Close Brothers  to repay  his yearly premium for his 
motor insurance policies by Direct Debit over nine months  after paying  an initial deposit. 
This agreement included interest  charged on the amount Mr B owed. 
Ref: DRN11211902Under this agreement Close Brothers  explained  that it would charge a missed payment fee if 
it couldnt collect the payment he owed when it was due. 
Close Brothers has provided a breakdown of its attempts to collect the payments over a 
three month period along with the reason code provided by the bank when the payment 
requests were rejected. 
I understand Mr B is unhappy about the balance hes been  asked to pay when he cancelled 
his policies. The broker provided a breakdown of what  Mr B was charged on cancellation. 
This was its set up fee, interest applied under the agreement  and a premium for the days  
Mr B was insured. I think Close Brothers has provided enough to show  that it acted 
reasonably. We havent received anything from Mr B to show that Close  Brothers incorrectly  
 or failed to  attempt to collect the payments  when  they were  due. 
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think Close Brothers needs to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1121190