K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  about the administration and cancellation of her current  account by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) after she discovered that a loan had been fraudulently 
taken out in her name. She says she wasnt able to access her funds for some  time before 
her bank account was closed  and wants compensation for the inconvenience this has 
caused her.
background
Miss P held a current account with Barclays. On 4 February 2019  a loan was taken  in her 
name  for £7,500 over 5 years. The following day Barclays also identified  a number of 
transactions it wanted to check on the account, so it blocked it and suspended the online  
banking facility.
On 8 February 2019 Miss P contacted  Barclays to confirm  that she hadnt taken out the loan 
and that it was fraudulent. Barclays investigated the matter and by 13 February  2019  
informed CIFAS that Miss P had been the victim of an account  takeover and issued  a letter  
to her the following day to confirm  the loan and a direct debit for the repayments had been 
cancelled. The account was also unblocked. 
However, Miss P complained  on the same day  that a payment shed made to another 
account didnt  go through.  She said she wasnt advised that the payment was being recalled 
and also complained about  an additional  charge that had come  out of her account. Barclays  
explained that the payment could  only have  been made using the proceeds of the fraudulent  
loan and therefore Miss P didnt actually have  the funds to make the payment. It confirmed 
the additional charges were part of the settlement fees from the loan, but would be refunded.   
On 14 February 2019 Barclays  blocked  the account  again while  it carried  out an internal 
review, and on 19 February 2019 it wrote to Miss P to confirm  that it would be closing her 
account and gave her two months  notice. However, before she received the letter Miss P 
went into a Barclays branch when her bank card was retained and was told that she would 
be receiving a letter about her account, but that if she needed to access her salary she could 
do that by providing  proof of ID. 
Miss P then complained about the total length  of time her account  had been  blocked and 
that she couldnt access her funds  which  meant she wasnt able to pay some  bills and cover 
her day to day essential expenditure.
Barclays said it had written off the fraudulent loan so Miss P hadnt suffered  any financial 
loss. But it accepted that it had only just removed the block on Miss Ps account and 
apologised for not doing  that sooner. It said it was prepared to offer compensation for that 
matter. 
Miss P wasnt happy with Barclays  response so she brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it should be upheld.  He said that 
Barclays had given  Miss P the opportunity to access her salary while the account  was 
blocked and noted that Miss P was able to make  some payments  from the account. 
However, he said Barclays  could  have done  more  to remove  the block  on Miss Ps account  
sooner and should pay £75 for the inconvenience this had caused. He didnt think the 
amount of compensation Miss P had requested was reasonable.
Ref: DRN13275102Miss P didnt agree. She said that Barclays hadnt  apologised  for not blocking her account. 
And as she had no access to her account  for around two weeks in total, she wanted  £1,500  
in compensation  for the lack of funds she had to pay her bills and pay for everyday 
essentials. She also said shed not been given a reason for her account being blocked   
despite multiple visits to a branch,  and her card had been kept by the ATM when she tried to 
deposit funds  to cover her bills. 
As no resolution could  be found the complaints  been passed  to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I have some  sympathy  for Miss P in 
this case as I can see how frustrating  it was for her to have her account blocked  as a result  
of fraudulent activity  on the account.  But I agree with the investigator regarding the level of 
compensation that Barclays ought  to pay Miss P for the length  of time her account  was 
blocked. I know that Miss P would like me to award her more  compensation   and therefore 
this outcome will disappoint her, so Ill explain my reasoning.  
Theres no dispute that Miss P wasnt responsible for the fraudulent loan application.  And I 
can see that the loan and the additional charges involved have been written off so that 
Miss P hasnt suffered any direct financial loss from the fraudulent application.  And theres 
also no evidence that Barclays  made  any error that allowed the loan to be granted.
Whats in dispute here is the extent to which Miss P says she was inconvenienced when 
Barclays blocked her account  and whether Barclays should have done more  to help Miss P 
during that time so that she wouldnt have been without funds for so long.
Ive seen that Barclays was made aware  of the attempted fraud on 8 February 2019 and 
made Miss P aware that it had closed her account  and adjusted  her credit file on 
13 February 2019. Barclays has confirmed it blocked the account  while  it carried  out 
investigations around the loan and some other transactions. And it would seem reasonable 
to me that  for Miss Ps own account  protection  Barclays undertook that investigation and 
blocked the account.  And I dont think the time it took to conclude  matters (4 working days) 
was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether Barclays  treated Miss P fairly and gave her the 
opportunity to access any available funds during that time. And I think it did because I can 
see that  while her account  was blocked   Miss P was able to make  some payments, 
including her rent, and was told she could access her salary  if she came  into a branch with 
appropriate ID. So I dont  think  Barclays acted unfairly there or caused Miss P any avoidable 
inconvenience without  offering an alternative way for her to access her funds. 
On 14 February 2019 Barclays  blocked  the account  again while  it conducted its own internal 
review of the whole  account. This led to Barclays writing  to Miss P five days later explaining 
that it would  be closing her account.  Ive seen that Barclays account terms and conditions  
state we can close an account  by giving you at least two months  notice. Any benefit or 
services linked to your account will stop at the same  time. And Ive seen a copy of the letter 
Miss P received, dated 19 February  2019, which confirmed the account would be closed 
after two months.
Ref: DRN13275103So I think Barclays was entitled to make this decision about  Miss Ps account  in line with 
its terms and conditions   and I cant say it acted unfairly in the steps it took and the notice it 
gave.
But, Barclays has accepted that following this decision  it continued to apply  the account 
blocks until the account was closed on 15 March  2019, despite its confirmation that the 
review period should last no more than 10 days. And its also confirmed that any review  that 
takes longer than that period would be regarded by it as poor service. So I think  it has made  
an error there and I have  to consider the impact  this had on Miss P. 
Miss P has said that she wasnt told why the account was blocked and didnt have access to 
her funds during  that time, which she says meant  she couldnt afford to pay her bills. Shes 
also said Barclays hasnt apologised for blocking the account.
But Ive seen how Barclays did give Miss P the opportunity to withdraw  funds from her 
account  if she was able to provide appropriate  ID. And Ive seen that her direct debits and 
some card payments came out of the account during that time. So I think Miss P was 
allowed to make some essential  payments and could have accessed further funds from her 
account to purchase  anything  else she might  have needed. But Ive borne in mind this would 
still have caused  her some inconvenience and came at a difficult time for her following an act 
of fraud  on her account.
Ultimately Barclays  should have released  the blocks on the account sooner than it did  
which its acknowledged. So, I think some  payment  for the distress  and inconvenience  its 
error caused is merited, and I find Im in agreement with the investigator that the amount of 
£75 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I uphold  Miss Ps complaint against  Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Barclays should pay Miss P £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by 
blocking her account  for longer than it said it would  when it undertook an internal review.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1327510