K820x#14complaint
Mrs T is complaining that she doesnt  think Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) 
has satisfactorily repaired her car after she made a claim on her car insurance policy.
Mrs T has largely  been represented  by her husband in this complaint. But for ease of 
reference I shall refer to any statements that he made as being  made  by Mrs T.
background
Mrs T was involved in an accident in her car, so she claimed  for the damage  on her car 
insurance policy. Admiral arranged for her car to be sent to one of its approved repairers 
(AR) to be repaired. When the car was returned to her, Mrs T complained about the quality 
of the repairs.
Admiral said that the car needed  to go back to the AR. But Mrs T remained unhappy after 
the car was returned to her. She said the car was in a worse state than it was before. She 
said that the paint repair  work was very poor and she highlighted the following issues:
The car now has one orange and one red wing mirror;
There was overspray  in certain areas;
She says there was white  residue  on the inside of the rear window;
She thought  the car had been  poorly valeted;
All the black trims have rubbing marks;
The passenger  side glass has pen marks that she said she couldnt get off; and
The front and back bumper paintwork didn't match.
Mrs T didnt  think  the AR had the ability to do the job. She said her car had a specific 
pearlescent paintwork on it. And she said the paint repair work was of a very poor quality.
Mrs T then took her car to a manufacturer  dealership for an inspection and the dealership 
highlighted 13 issues with the car. Following  this, Admiral agreed to have an independent 
inspection carried out to review all the issues highlighted.
The engineer concluded that a number of the issues that the dealership had highlighted  
were likely to be attributable to the quality of repairs carried  out by the AR. But he said that 
there were a number  of issues that it considered to be pre-existing.  He said some of damage 
was in an area that the AR hadnt worked  on. And he said that photographs of the car taken 
before the repairs were  carried out showed that some of the issues were present before the 
accident. The engineer estimated that the cost of repairing the issues  he thought were down 
to the AR was around £493.13  plus VAT.
Admiral reviewed the engineers report and noted that the engineer  had said that he didnt 
think there was any overspray. But it thought that the photographs suggested that there was. 
So it thought  it should cover this too. So it added a further £28 to the repair  estimate and 
offered to settle  the claim  by paying  Mrs T £521.13  plus VAT  £625.36. It also offered to 
pay her the following:
1.£100 for the distress and inconvenience  this matter had caused  her;
2.£50 in compensation for the delay in reviewing the complaint; 
3.£50 for the cost of carrying out a valet to the car; and
4.£10 for the cost of the telephone calls that shed  had to make.
Ref: DRN16098342Mrs T didnt  agree with the engineer and she said that the manufacturing  dealership had 
said that the only way of resolving the matter  was to do a full respray  and it estimated the 
repair cost to be around £4,000. She also said that the manufacturer  had said that the car 
was worth around £11,000,  but she paid £15,000  for it. So she says that this means the car 
had lost around £4,000 in value since shed got it. And she said this was down to the repairs 
carried out by the AR.
Mrs T didnt  accept Admirals offer. She maintains there werent  any issues with the 
paintwork before the accident. She said she was due to go to Ireland the next day. And she 
said her son had polished  all marks off the car and she said that there  were  no noticeable 
marks or differing colours. She said shed told the AR before the repair to not do any work on 
the bumpers as she said that the colour match  on the bumpers at the time were  a good 
match to the rest of the car, given they were plastic. 
Mrs T maintains that the only way to rectify  the issues  on the car is to carry out a full respray.  
She doesnt think the instructed independent engineer has carried out an independent 
inspection. She disputes  that there  were  any issues with the paintwork before she bought 
the car. And she says that she would not have spent  around £15,000 for a car if all the 
issues highlighted by the independent  engineer  were present at the point of sale.
Our adjudicator partially upheld this complaint. She was satisfied that the independent  
engineers inspection report was a fair assessment of the damage. She noted the repair  
estimate Mrs T had provided, but she said that this was to carry out a full respray of the car. 
She thought  that this was also intended to repair the issues  that the independent  engineer 
thought was pre-existing. So she didnt  think  it was a fair reflection of the actual repair  cost.  
Given this, she thought that Admiral should  arrange  a further inspection of the car. She also 
thought that it should pay for an independent  inspection of the car after the repairs  are 
carried out to ensure  that the repairs had been carried out to a reasonable standard.
Admiral didnt agree with the investigator. It said that it had already paid for an inspection 
and it didnt think it should be required to pay for another one. It also didnt agree that it 
should have to pay for an inspection after the repairs. It said that it was paying a cash-in-lieu 
of repairs payment so that Mrs T could instruct her own garage to do the repairs.  It said that 
its not responsible  for the work Mrs Ts garage does.
I issued a provisional decision in February  2020 not upholding  this complaint. And I said the 
following:
Mrs T has raised a number of issues that she would like this service  to take into account. 
Ive read and considered everything shes provided.  Ive not commented on each and every  
point that shes  raised.  But Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues. No discourtesy 
is meant by this, but simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Theres no dispute that the quality  of the repair done  by the AR was not of the standard 
Mrs T was entitled to expect. And there were a number of issues with the car highlighted 
after it was returned  to them. The issue for me to decide is how many of these issues 
Admiral is liable to rectify based on all the evidence provided.
Mrs T initially arranged for an inspection by a manufacturing dealership in respect to all the 
issues on the car. Admiral  has arranged  for an independent inspection of the car. The 
Ref: DRN16098343inspector has agreed with the issues that the dealership has highlighted. But he didnt think 
all the issues the dealership had highlighted were down to the works carried out by the AR. 
I note Mrs T doesnt think the report was an independent assessment of the car. But I think 
the engineer has given  a good  detailed rationale for his findings. And I havent seen anything 
to support that the findings werent independent. So I think  its fair to rely on his findings  as a 
fair assessment of what  Admiral needs  to do.
Mrs T says there werent any issues with the car before she bought it. But Im also conscious 
that shed told the business that the car had only just returned from the manufacturing  
dealership to have  some  repairs  to the paintwork. So, by her own admission, there  were  
issues with the paintwork  before the accident. 
I think Mrs T has suggested that, while there were slightly different colours on the paintwork 
before the accident  in particular on the bumpers it wasnt unreasonable  at the time which  
is why she says she asked AR not to do any repair work to the bumper. But, while I 
acknowledge her comments on this, I havent seen anything to show  that the AR acted 
unreasonably in this respect.
Ultimately I cant  say that Admiral acted  unreasonably in relying  upon  the independent 
inspection report.  Under  the terms of the insurance contract, Admiral was required to 
arrange to repair the damage caused  by the accident. There  were  issues  that arose 
following the repair. And Admiral was required  to arrange to rectify the issues which were 
caused by the AR, which it has offered to do by paying a cash-in-lieu of repairs payment.  
It seems  to me that the repair carried out has highlighted issues  that were present before the 
accident. While I can understand Mrs Ts frustrations in this matter, Admiral  isnt required to 
rectify these  issues. Its agreed to pay Mrs T the amount its estimated it will cost to fix the 
issues it thinks were  caused by the AR. And I havent seen anything to show that this is an 
unfair estimate  especially considering theyre based on the repair  estimate given by the 
independent engineer.
I acknowledge that Mrs T thinks the only way to rectify this matter now is to have a complete 
respray of the car. But I think this is to also rectify  the pre-existing issues.  So I dont think 
Admiral is liable to rectify this.
Finally I note that the adjudicator has recommended two further inspections  one before the 
repair and one after. But I dont  agree that Admiral needs to do this. An independent 
inspection has already been  carried out. And, as I said, I havent seen anything  to show that 
this wasnt a fair assessment of the issues on the car. Further to this, Admiral isnt liable  for 
the work  that the garage  Mrs T instructs does. And in paying her a cash-in-lieu of repair  
offer, its enabling her to arrange  a garage of her choice to carry out the rectification work.
I acknowledge that this matter has caused Mrs T a lot of distress and inconvenience. But I 
also think that a large  part of this is because shes unhappy that Admiral wont pay to repair 
all the issues. And Admiral isnt required to compensate her for this. That said, there  were  
issues that were caused by the AR. And I do think Admiral is required to compensate  her for 
this. But Admiral has already offered her £160  in compensation (including compensation for 
the cost of the telephone  calls and the length  of time it took to resolve the complaint). And I 
dont think this is out of line with what I would  have awarded.
So, in summary  I think Admiral has made a fair offer to resolve  this matter.
Ref: DRN16098344Mrs T didnt  agree with my provisional decision. And she raised the following points:
1.She thought  it was incorrect for the engineer to say there was a number of pre-existing 
issues with the car not caused by AR. And she says she explained this to Admiral as 
soon as she read his report. She explained that the dealership who she bought the car 
from agreed to sort out a roughness shed found  on the cars exterior  and she says it 
also gave the car a special final polish. She maintains the car was in perfect condition.
2.She queried how the engineer could  say there  were pre-existing issues as she maintains 
there were no scuff marks on the black trim of the car. And she said shes  certain this 
was done when AR did the final polish after they completed the repair  work. 
3.She says she didnt inspect the car when  she first picked it up. She said it was only when 
her husband inspected it, that he noticed all the highlighted issues she told AR about. 
She said the AR couldnt take the car back for two weeks as she said they were so busy. 
And she said she suspects this was the problem, as she thinks  the AR rushed the 
repairs in the first place.  
4.She says the AR agreed and replaced  one roof trim on the accident side,  which she 
thinks shows they realised it was their fault. 
5.She said the passenger side window was unblemished, but it had a scratch when it was 
returned. She says the AR initially  said it wouldnt repair  this but even Admiral agreed to 
replace that. 
6.She maintains  that AR were told to not touch the bumper. But she says they painted  it 
and it now has a visible paint  line of differing colours, which she says looks  bad in 
sunlight. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mrs Ts comments into account, but I dont  think shes raised  anything  that she 
hasnt raised before.  I appreciate that she feels strongly about this and I dont dispute that 
the quality of the repair done by the AR was not of the standard  Mrs T was entitled  to expect. 
There were a number of issues with the quality of the repair work, but Im still of the opinion  
that I think its fair for Admiral to abide  by the findings of the independent engineers  
assessment of what Admiral is liable  to rectify.
Mrs T has set out what she disagrees  with in respect to the report. Ive taken into account  
and considered every point that shes raised.  But I dont think shes  raised anything she 
hasnt set out before. And she hasnt  given me anything  new to make me think  that the 
engineers report  isnt a fair and independent  assessment of the damage.  So, for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Im still of the opinion that Admiral is only liable 
for the issues highlighted by the independent report. And Im satisfied that Admirals offer to 
pay her £835.36 to resolve  the claim and complaint is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my decision that Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limiteds offer to pay Mrs T £835.36  to resolve  the claim and complaint is fair. And I dont 
intend to require it to do anything further.  It should pay this to her directly  if it hasnt already 
done so. 
Ref: DRN16098345Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1609834