K821x#15complaint
Miss S, says that Western  Circle Ltd (trading  as Cashfloat) lent money to her that she 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Miss S entered into nine loans  with Cashfloat  between November 2016 and March 2018. At 
the time she says she was dependent on payday loans and was borrowing to make her 
repayments. She says that the interest  on the loans made her situation worse as she 
couldnt afford to make  ends meet without borrowing further.
Cashfloat says that each  of Miss Ss applications  was subject to a comprehensive 
affordability and creditworthiness assessment in line with the relevant guidelines. It says that 
income and expenditure information was gathered  and verified  and that credit checks  were 
carried out. It says that Miss Ss declared  disposable income was sufficient for her to meet 
her repayments and that she had a reasonable credit profile. 
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint in regard to loans five to nine. She said that 
proportionate checks by loan five would  most  likely have shown Miss S was having problems 
managing her money and would have revealed  that her income  had dropped as a result of 
being on maternity leave.  She said this suggested  a dependency on short  term borrowing 
and that Cashfloat should have realised it was unlikely Miss S would be able to sustainably 
repay these  loans.
Cashfloat didnt  accept our adjudicators view. It reiterated that it carried out proportionate 
checks and the loans appeared affordable. It did offer to refund the interest charged  on the 
final loan but Miss S didnt agree.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Miss S accepts my decision it is legally 
binding on both parties.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss S could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
Ref: DRN15672372the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
I can see that checks were carried out in regard to Miss Ss income, expenses  and 
creditworthiness. I think these were  reasonable in regard to the early  loans. However,  as our 
adjudicator explained by the time Miss S took out the fifth loan Cashfloat should  have been 
concerned that Miss S was having problems manging her money. I say this because this 
was her fifth loan in less than six months  and the although the loans were  being repaid early 
Miss S was borrowing at around the same time each  month suggesting that she was 
dependent on this borrowing for her regular outgoings.
Given this I dont think it was safe to rely on what Miss S was saying about her finances and 
Cashfloat should have done  more to verify the situation. I think  it should have asked for 
evidence to verify her income and outgoings  and had it done  so it would have seen her 
position with regard to her maternity  pay. I have considered what the business says about 
the checks it carried out and the affordability  of the loans on the figures  it had. But Miss Ss 
borrowing pattern  suggested a very different picture and I dont think it is enough for 
Cashfloat to rely on that information  and to continue to lend in these circumstances.
Miss S continued to borrow  and her situation didnt improve. Miss S didnt  make  any 
significant inroads  into the amount she owed. The amounts stayed roughly the same. So I 
think Mr S had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service  a debt to Western  Circle 
over an extended period.
Ref: DRN15672373I think that loans  five to nine were unsustainable  and I dont think  these should have been 
provided to Miss S.
I think that Miss S lost out because  Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing from loan five 
onwards because these loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Miss Ss indebtedness by 
allowing her to take expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
So Im upholding  this complaint in regard to loans five to nine.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  five to nine. Western Circle 
Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Miss S paid on loans five to nine;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan five onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans five to nine should be removed 
from Miss Ss credit file.
*HMRC requires  you to take off tax from this interest. If Miss S asks you for a certificate 
showing how much  tax youve taken off, you should provide this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1567237