K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Society of Lloyds wont  pay their claim for loss of rent arising 
out of a claim for building damage  under a block property owners policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B own, and let out a flat in a block in a converted house. In late 2015 their tenant 
complained of dampness to a wall. Through  their letting  agent an electrical safety test was 
carried out. This resulted in advice to the tenant not to use electrical  sockets in the kitchen. 
The tenant gave  notice to quit in January and left in March 2016. The rent was paid up until 
the beginning of April.
In the meantime, arising out of a storm that happened in February  2016,  the buildings 
property managers  made  a claim for storm damage  to the roof. The claim was accepted and 
repairs were carried out by 28 April. But it was identified that the roof/external walls of the 
building needed  substantial repairs. These  were  carried out by the property  agents,  and 
were completed in February  2017. In March  2017 Mr and Mrs B made a claim for the internal 
damage to their flat. Lloyds accepted  the claim under the accidental  damage cover in the 
policy. Repairs were carried out, which were  completed by October 2017. 
Mr and Mrs B claimed for loss of rent for eighteen  months, the amount of time they had been 
unable to let the property  out. They said theyd been  advised that because of new electrical 
regulations from April 2016 it would have been illegal for them  to let out the property as it 
stood.
Lloyds declined the claim for loss of rent. It argued  that the tenant had moved out before the 
claim and the rent receivable term in the policy didnt  apply.  It further said that the flat 
wasnt uninhabitable within the meaning  of the policy, as all rooms  were available for use. It 
said further work could  have been  done to make the electrics  safe.  
On referral to this service  our investigator  pointed  out that the external repairs under the 
claim were completed by April 2016,  the other repairs were  carried  out by the property 
managers, outside of any claim. She further said there were  no avoidable delays on the part 
of Lloyds so it wasnt  liable to pay the loss of rent.
Mr and Mrs B said that that wasnt the issue  they believed  that it had been accepted by all 
parties that the internal  damage was storm related (or covered under the policy), so the only 
issue was whether the flat was uninhabitable. As it would have been a criminal offence for 
them to let the property out and as the kitchen clearly couldnt be used it was uninhabitable.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that the issue here was one of policy  coverage  for 
loss of rent, rather than whether there were delays  on either side. I said that I was satisfied 
that the property  was uninhabitable for nine months whilst the insured repairs  were taking 
place. But I said that as the external uninsured repairs had to be carried  out first and took 
nine months the loss of rent didnt fall to be payable  during that time. 
Mr and Mrs B pointed  out that the loss of rent was for nineteen not eighteen months. They  
argue that they should be paid loss of rent for the full nineteen months.  Whilst they 
appreciate that the external work  to the roof after April 2016 wasnt  part of the insured, 
internal work, they argue that it was an essential part of the internal work. This is because 
the policy conditions  require that the building be kept in a good  state  of repair  and that the 
Ref: DRN13754512commercial interests of Lloyds are served  by keeping the property in good condition.  On the 
point that Lloyds had no control  over the length of those repairs they believe  it has covered 
that by setting a three years cap on loss of rent payments.
They further believe that the term concerning loss of rent in the policy  isnt limited to repair 
work nor to the time during which the repair work  is undertaken. But as a compromise they 
suggest that I award loss of rent for five months of the ten month period it took to do the 
internal repairs.
Lloyds has received my provisional decision but hasnt responded to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
I think  Mr and Mrs B are right, in that the issue here is whether Lloyds is liable  for loss of 
rent, under the terms of the policy. Its generally accepted that, for the internal  damage, there 
was no unavoidable delay on anyones part so any issue about delay is irrelevant.
It is clear that the tenant gave notice to quit before  any insurance claim arose. The actual 
claim for the external damage was for storm damage which  occurred in early February. The 
water coming in may have been made worse by the storm damage but the tenants decision 
to leave was a result of the electrical test carried out before then. The insured work  took two 
months to complete,  and Mr and Mrs B lost one months rent during this time. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  make a claim for the internal damage until March 2017. I understand the 
reason for that, mainly  led by the property agents, which was because the external damage 
had to be repaired first. But the bulk of that work was uninsured. Mr and Mrs B couldnt 
expect Lloyds to pay for any lost rent during the period, from May 2016  to March 2017,  
when that external work was being  carried out.
Lloyds did accept liability to repair the internal damage. So on the face of it, its liability would 
be for April 2016 and the period March  to September (inclusive) 2017. The term in the policy 
is:
In the event of any damage* resulting in 
a) a residential building or residential  portion of any building being uninhabitable; or 
b) access being prevented to such property 
we will pay for rent receivable  as defined in section  2..
*This being Loss, destruction  of or damage  insured by this policy.
Rent receivable is defined as:
The money paid or payable to you for accommodation and services  provided in course of 
the business at the premises.
Generally we would regard  a property as being uninhabitable if there is a lack of access  to 
cooking or washing facilities or if it is unsafe  to live in. Here  Mr and Mrs B argue that the 
Ref: DRN13754513property was unsafe because of electrical regulations applying to let properties. I havent 
seen the results of the electrical test carried out in late 2015.  But I think  that the extent of the 
work to the kitchen  wall does indicate  to me that the electrics on that wall, where the oven 
and hob and utility electrical sockets  were situated, were probably  unsafe to use. I bear in 
mind that the plaster had to be removed  back to the brickwork and extensive drying needed 
to be carried out.
So I think, apart from it being unlettable, it would've been  unsafe to allow a tenant to use the 
electrical supply in the kitchen. So they wouldnt have had the use of basic cooking facilities. 
That in turn leads me to think the flat was uninhabitable for the seven  months while the 
insured repairs were carried out, and for the one month the external repairs  were carried out. 
I have no idea what work Lloyds expected Mr and Mrs B to carry out to a damp  wall which  
needed extensive drying to ensure the electrics were usable.
I think until the internal  repairs  were  done, there was no prospect of getting a new tenant in. 
Mr and Mrs B have  shown us statements that show  the property  was fully tenanted from 
2013 until March  2016. And Ive seen an email  from the letting agent advising that 
prospective tenants were  available. So but for the claim  they would have had a tenant in 
place which  in my view means that rent for the period was payable.
So I think Lloyds should pay to Mr and Mrs B the loss of rent for April 2016 and for the 
period March to September  2017  (eight months in total) plus simple  interest  at 8% per year 
from the date each payment of rent would have been payable, until payment.  The rent 
should be based on the last statement of rent received for the period March to April 2016 
(£495 per month).
Further I think Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for the inconvenience  
caused.
I understand Mr and Mrs Bs arguments.  But I would observe that they didnt  actually make  a 
claim for the internal damage until the external work was completed. Further  the policy  term 
they quote doesnt cap the rent loss at three years to take account of other  repairs.  The cap 
is simply the risk the insurer wishes to accept. The obligation to maintain the property is the 
policyholders. If a claim arose because of a failure  to maintain then the policy  simply 
wouldnt pay out.
Ive set out the policy term concerning  loss of rent above. For loss of rent to be payable there 
has to be damage specifically insured by the policy". As Ive said Mr and Mrs B didnt 
make a claim until the external damage had been  repaired. The external repairs  didnt form  
part of the internal repairs but such repairs wouldnt have been effective if they were liable to 
be further damaged  because  the roof wasnt weathertight. This was the obligation to 
maintain. Had the claim been made  sooner Lloyds would have stood ready to carry out the 
internal repairs but wouldnt  have been  able to do so. So up until the time it was ready  to be 
repaired under  the insurance claim the property  wasnt uninhabitable due to an insured 
cause.
I accept the error in dates. On reviewing Lloyds  papers it doesnt  dispute when the repairs  
were completed. So it should pay nine rather than eight months loss of rent.
My provisional findings, except where Ive set out above, are now final and form part of this 
final decision.
Ref: DRN13754514my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Society  of Lloyds to:
pay to Mr and Mrs B their loss of rent of £495  per month  for the months of April 2016 and 
March to October 2017 (inclusive)  together with simple interest* at 8% per year from the 
date each instalment  would  have  been due, until payment. 
pay £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
* Society  of Lloyds is required by HM Revenue  and Customs to deduct  tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mr and Mrs B request it, Society of Lloyds  should provide them with a certificate showing how 
much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, they can reclaim it.
Ref: DRN1375451