K820x#14complaint
Ms D isnt happy with how Tesco Personal Finance  Plc (Tesco) has offered to resolve her 
complaint about  a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy attached to her loan.
background
In 1999 Ms D took out a loan with Tesco for £15,000 with a term of 60 months.  The loan, if it 
ran to term,  would have attracted a further  £3,510  in interest.  So Ms Ds total borrowing for 
the loan was £18,510.
The loan had PPI attached. And the PPI was paid for upfront by Ms D borrowing more. This 
type of policy is called a single premium  PPI policy.
The PPI cost a further £2,321 and would have  cost more with interest  over the full term of 
the loan. The PPI, if it ran to term, would have attracted a further £542.80 in interest. So 
Ms Ds total borrowing for the PPI was £2,863.80.
In total the amount Ms D had to pay back for the loan and the PPI was £21,373.80.
Ms Ds combined monthly payment for the loan and PPI was £356.23. So £308.50  was for 
the loan and the interest the loan attracted. And £47.73 was for the PPI and the interest the 
PPI attracted.
At some point Ms D got into trouble in making  the repayments on the loan and Tesco  sold 
the debt on to a third party.  She continued to make some payments (but not full payments) 
towards the outstanding balance that was owed. But there  still remains  an outstanding 
balance that hasnt been fully paid back.
In 2018 Ms D complained that the PPI policy had been mis-sold. Tesco  agreed to settle 
Ms Ds complaint. Its offer was to place Ms D in the position she would be in had PPI not 
been added  to the loan.  It calculated the compensation to be £3,162.29 (after tax).
It worked out that Ms D had paid £1,869.68  towards  the PPI and the interest (of the total 
£2,863.80). So it offered to pay that back and remove the unpaid PPI (so £994.12)  from the 
outstanding balance.
Tesco also worked  out that because Ms D had paid £1,869.68 towards the PPI (and interest)  
she was owed a further £1,615.76 as compensation for being out of pocket of those funds. 
This amount was calculated as 8% simple interest on the overpayments Ms D had made. 
This amount was taxable. After  tax this part of the compensation came to £1,292.61.
So, in summary  Tesco  worked out that it owed  Ms D a total of £3,162.29 (£1,869.68 and 
£1,292.61) in compensation.  And it would remove the unpaid  PPI (£994.12) from the 
outstanding balance that was still owed.
But, Ms D still had a debt outstanding with the third party  which was more than the 
£3,162.29 Tesco owed Ms D. 
Tesco, in its letter to Ms D, explained  that it intended to use the PPI compensation to reduce 
the amount Ms D owes  for this debt. 
Ref: DRN18383902Ms D didnt accept the offer. She thinks it is unfair  for Tesco  to buy the debt back  because 
Tesco chose  to sell the debt on. Ms D thinks the debt with Tesco  isnt enforceable as it is 
20 years  old. Ms D says she only has her pension as in income  and would like the 
compensation to be paid directly to her so she can negotiate a settlement in full and final 
with the third part herself. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  the offer and approach Tesco  intended 
to take was fair. 
As the matter hasnt  been resolved its been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to everything Ms D has said. I understand that Ms D will be disappointed, but I 
agree that the approach  Tesco  wants to take to resolve her complaint is fair. Ill explain why.
what has Tesco calculated as compensation  and is it fair?
When I decide, or a business agrees, that a PPI policy has been mis-sold  Id expect it to put 
the consumer  in the position they would  have been in had they not taken  out the PPI policy, 
as far as is possible.  
Tesco looked at the effect PPI had on Ms Ds loan and calculated that it owed her £3,162.29  
after tax. And it removed the remaining  unpaid  PPI from the outstanding balance. 
Having looked  at Tescos  offer, it is fair and in line with what  Id expect to see.
But because Tesco said there was still an outstanding balance / debt which hadnt been paid 
back, it wants to buy part of the debt back and use Ms Ds PPI compensation to reduce what  
is owed.
 
is Tescos proposal to buy the debt back and reduce what Ms D owes  fair?
Tesco sold the debt on to a third party. Tesco had a right to sell the debt to the third party 
and it also has a right to buy that debt back, or a part of it, which is what it wants to do  to 
enable it to use the compensation to reduce what is owed under Ms Ds loan. 
There is in law what is called the equitable right of set-off which allows  people  to set-off  
closely connected debts.  This means that one person (A) can deduct from a debt they owe 
another person (B), money which that person (B) owes  to them. 
For this right of set-off to apply, I must be satisfied that there is a close connection  between  
the PPI compensation and the outstanding  debt.  I must also consider whether  it would  be 
fair for Tesco to set-off in this way. Both tests must be satisfied for me to find that Tesco has 
an equitable right to set-off the PPI compensation against Ms Ds outstanding debt on her 
loan account.  
Ref: DRN18383903The PPI sold to Ms D was directly connected to her loan account. Using  the right of set-off  I 
have outlined above, I am satisfied the PPI compensation  and the loan debt are closely  
connected. They are both related to the same account Ms D had with Tesco.
Ive also seen nothing  to show Ms D has other priority debts so she needs the compensation 
to pay those. So, again I think its fair for Tesco to use the compensation it owes  Ms D to 
reduce the debt she owes for the loan. 
I appreciate that Ms D says the loan was taken 20 years ago and she thinks  it isnt 
enforceable. And that she would like to use the compensation to negotiate her own 
settlement with the third party. But, Ms D had the use of the loan and not all of it has been 
paid back. So I think it is fair that the compensation is used to reduce what is owed. Tescos 
intention to use the PPI compensation  to reduce  what is owed actually puts the outstanding 
balance in the position it would be in had Ms D not taken PPI. 
The additional compensation  that Tesco offered for Ms D being out of pocket means that 
Ms Ds debt is further reduced. And I think that is fair, considering what I said above about 
what is fair when two parties  owe each other  a debt.
I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Ms D, and I empathise with her 
situation. But for the reasons Ive given, I think Tesco are acting fairly.
my final decision
As Ive discussed above, my final decision is that the amount of compensation 
Tesco Personal Finance Plc has offered to resolve  Ms Ds PPI complaint is fair. 
And Tesco Personal Finance Plcs  intention  to use the PPI compensation amount to reduce 
what Ms D owes  is fair.
It is up to Ms D as to whether she wishes to accept Tesco Personal  Finance Plcs offer of 
compensation.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1838390