K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about Day Payment and Forex Limited, trading as Day Transfers (Day 
Transfers) regarding two payments he made  using  the service which did not reach the 
intended recipients.  Mr T wants a refund of his funds. 
background
In late October 2018, Mr T made  a payment of £500 using Day Transfers service.
A few days  later, Mr T made a further payment of £545. 
Shortly after this, Mr T learned that the payments had not reached their intended recipients. 
He contacted Day Transfers and was initially told that Day Transfers  would look into what  
had happened  and would contact him. 
When Mr T did not receive a return contact,  he contacted Day Transfers  again. The agent he 
spoke to said that there had been  a problem with multiple deposits and the business was 
working to resolve  the problem. 
Mr T complained to Day Transfers.  
He subsequently received  a mailing,  intended  for a number of customers, which indicated 
that Days Transfers  was undertaking legal action against a third party  in order  to recover the 
funds that were missing  from customers. 
Mr T was not happy with that response and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and has asked Day Transfers  for 
information relating  to the transactions. 
He has made multiple attempts to give the business an opportunity  to respond, but Day 
Transfers has not responded with its file. 
Our investigator therefore reached a view without having received any substantive 
information from Day Transfers. 
That view was that, based on the receipts provided by Mr T, and the acknowledgement that 
there had been  problems  with processing  transfers, the investigator accepted that Day 
Transfers had acted  wrongly and that as a result  Mr Ts funds had gone elsewhere than their 
intended recipients.  He therefore recommended that Day Transfers  refund Mr T his deposits 
(£1045), along with interest  from October  2018.  In addition, he recommended  that Day 
Transfers pay Mr T £200 compensation  for his distress and inconvenience.  
Mr T accepts the recommendation. 
Day Transfers has not responded to the investigators view,  and so the complaint has been  
passed for an ombudsman decision.  
Ref: DRN19915972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Day Transfers has not provided any evidence, I have had to base my decision on the 
information provided by Mr T. 
This includes receipts for his transactions, and a copy  of a communication from Day 
Transfers in which the business acknowledges that customer  funds have  been  held up and 
that it is taking legal action to recover those  funds. 
Day Transfers has not responded to further  communication,  either  from Mr T or from this 
service. 
I therefore agree with the investigators  view that on the available  evidence  it appears that 
Day Transfers has received Mr Ts funds, which did not then reach their intended  recipient. 
On that basis, I also agree that Day Transfers should refund Mr Ts payments, and pay him 
interest for the period  that he has been  denied the use of his money. 
I accept that this issue will have  caused  Mr T significant distress and inconvenience  and I 
agree that Day Transfers should pay Mr T £200 compensation to reflect  this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Day Payment and Forex  
Limited to:
Refund to Mr T his deposits,  amounting  to £1045;
Pay Mr T interest on the sum of £500,  at a rate of 8% p/a for the period 23/10/2018 
until payment; 
Pay Mr T interest on the sum of £545,  at a rate of 8% p/a for the period 26/10/2018 
until payment; and
Pay to Mr T £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1991597