K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (Halifax):
-took one month to increase their monthly payment when the Bank  of England  
Base Rate  increased
-when the Bank  of England Base Rate had previously reduced,  it took Halifax  two 
months to reduce  their monthly payment
background
Mr and Mrs J have a mortgage  with Halifax where  until recently;  the interest rate they were  
being charged on their mortgage was Halifaxs Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
They arent happy with how long it has taken  Halifax to pass  on the changes  to their 
mortgage when  the Bank  of England Base  Rate  changed. 
They complained to Halifax who said that they applied the changes to Mr and Mrs Js 
mortgage account in line with their terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs J werent  happy with this so they brought  their complaint to our service. The 
complaint was looked at by one of our investigators  who said we were only able to look at 
certain aspects of the complaint. This was because  he noticed  that Mr and Mrs J had 
already complained to Halifax about the amount of time it took them  to reduce their interest 
rate on their mortgage.  Halifax had issued a final response letter on the matter in 2016 so 
the investigator said he would only consider whats happened overall, with the interest rate 
changes. The investigator didnt think that Halifax had done anything  wrong  so didnt think 
the complaint  should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed  with this. They said they didnt agree that the changes were applied  
fairly so they asked  the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So the complaint has 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I appreciate that Mr and Mrs J have 
strong feelings about their complaint, I wont be upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs J previously complained to Halifax about how long it took Halifax to reduce their 
interest rate specifically  in 2016. Halifax issued  a final response on the matter in 2016.  So 
this part of the complaint is out of time as it needed  to be brought to us within  six months of 
the final response letter. As there  are no exceptional  circumstances  to explain the delay,  this 
means it falls outside of the scope of this complaint. 
What I have gone on to consider overall, is how Halifax applied  their rate changes generally, 
and if these changes  are applied fairly in line with their terms and conditions.
I can see that previously Halifax have explained to Mr and Mrs J that the SVR applied  to 
their mortgage doesnt track the Bank of England Base Rate. And I havent seen anything 
which would make me think otherwise.
Ref: DRN19548012Generally, a SVR is a follow  on rate from when  a consumers initial  rate  which can be 
either a fixed or tracker  rate for example - has expired.  Once a mortgage  account is on a 
SVR, its up to a lender  to decide  when  they change that rate as there are varying factors  
that they need to take into consideration. 
I havent seen  anything in the terms and conditions which  suggests  that Halifax are 
contractually obliged  to change their SVR when the Bank of England  Base Rate changes.  
Lenders can take into account what  happens  when the Bank of England Base Rate  
changes, but they dont have to apply changes just because the Bank of England Base  rate 
changes at any given  time.
The terms and conditions  also say that Halifax can change the SVR at any time as long as 
they give notice   which I believe they have.  The sample letters I have seen show that notice  
would have been given and the information from Halifax  Ive seen on file suggests that these 
letters were sent out to Mr and Mrs J.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs J arent disputing that the SVR can change, but more  so how 
the changes are applied to their account. But from reviewing the terms and conditions Im 
satisfied that Halifax  have applied the rate changes fairly because  there  is nothing  to say 
that they have  to apply these changes immediately. A SVR affects a number of different 
borrowers and takes time to implement. A lender will want  to make the change from a 
milestone and decide when it makes that change.
In addition to this, if Mr and Mrs J were unhappy  with how the SVR was applied  to their 
account, they could, if they wanted to, change their mortgage to another lender or taken a 
new rate with Halifax. And from what Ive seen there were no barriers put in place by Halifax 
which stopped  Mr and Mrs J in moving  their mortgage.
While Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs J, I think that the changes  applied by Halifax  have 
been done so reasonably and fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1954801