K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs H bought the policy in 1996 at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. She applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy documents that applied  to Mrs H are no longer available. I dont think  thats 
surprising given how long ago the policy was sold. But I have looked at the nearest available  
policy which  I think is the same as, or at least similar to, the policy  that wouldve applied  to 
Mrs H, to help me decide this case.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs H for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  at least  £68.84  a month  towards Mrs Hs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £3.80 a month.  
At the time,  Mrs H was employed  as a phonebank  adviser. She has told us she was entitled 
to 3 months sick pay and 3 months redundancy pay. Mrs H has told us about a medical 
condition that affected her a few years before taking  out the PPI. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2002. 
Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Hs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Hs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs H about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs H and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN13610272The information Mrs H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN13610273I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Hs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs H and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs H know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN13610274Ive seen a copy  of the application form Mrs H completed when she applied  for her 
mortgage. This included  a separate section relating to PPI which asked her to tick yes or 
no to taking out the policy and to answer  a few questions about her eligibility for the PPI. 
Although the age of this document makes  parts  of it difficult to read, I can see that Mrs H 
selected yes, and I think the fact that she was also given the option to say no would have 
made it clear  that the PPI wasnt  compulsory. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs H knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mrs H agree that advice was provided during  this sale. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mrs H with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mrs H. The adviser had information about  some of Mrs Hs financial circumstances as 
part of the mortgage application.  But although I can see that some questions  were asked 
about eligibility, I cant see for certain what those  questions  were due to the poor quality of 
the copy weve been provided,  so I cant be sure that Lloyds did enough to make  sure the 
policy was suitable.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs H given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs H had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Hs ability  to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the redundancy pay and 
sick pay she says she would have  been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs H.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs H. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Hs employment  or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs H has told us about a 
medical condition  that first affected her several years before the sale, but shes not 
suggested that this condition  caused  her any ongoing issues.  
Ref: DRN13610275-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  that Mrs H be 
totally unable to work, the requirement  that Mrs H be unemployed for 60 days  before 
she could make a claim and the fact the policy would only pay benefits  for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
Mrs Hs circumstances, including her employers  sickness  and redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to her home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mrs H be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs H was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs H was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs H would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs H agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs H Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Lloyds  gave Mrs H all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Hs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN13610276-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs H has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mrs H? To what extent did Mrs H 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs H. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs H 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs H 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs H, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs H has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs H would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs H says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs H had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Hs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs H knew  she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told her the exact premium at the point  Mrs H applied  
Ref: DRN13610277for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mrs H would have  been  told the cost before 
the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs  were  
significantly at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might  have  
raised that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs H would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mrs H would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Hs expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs H thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that occurred in the 12 
months prior to the start date of the policy and for which  Mrs H had sought treatment 
or consultation; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs H 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs H be totally 
unable to work;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs H pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs H from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs H was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs H says she had a medical 
condition some time before the policy  was taken out I dont think better  information  about this 
exclusion would have  put her off agreeing to it. I say this because shes  not suggested  that 
this condition caused her ongoing issues at the time of the sale or that shed had to take any 
time off work for it after it initially occurred. So I dont think its something shed have thought  
it likely  shed need to claim  for.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs H might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
Ref: DRN13610278limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs H 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs H, in her circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs H had known she could only claim for disability if she was totally  unable to work, it 
might have played into her thinking  about what she would have done. And I accept  it may 
have given her pause  for thought  although  given  Mrs Hs circumstances, on balance,  I still 
think she would have  been interested in taking out the cover. 
Lloyds may not have  told Mrs H that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mrs H would have received full sick pay for and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs H would still have thought  a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs H be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mrs Hs sick pay or redundancy money  for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs H was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs H 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs H would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs H 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN13610279proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs H in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs H compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs H thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs H, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1996 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs H and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs H in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2021.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1361027