K820x#14This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr C says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I cant know for certain what happened  during  the sale so Ive looked closely at the 
paperwork available to help me decide whats likely to have happened.  Ive seen a copy 
of a form Mr C completed as part of his mortgage application  and on it there  is a section 
related to PPI. It gives a brief description of the PPI  and Mr C has signed to say he 
wanted the policy. Mr C has also signed  a separate PPI form titled mortgage 
repayments insurance application. There is nothing in the paperwork from the sale to 
suggest the PPI was compulsory or that it would improve Mr Cs chances of the 
mortgage being approved. So on balance I think its more likely  than not that Halifax 
made it clear that Mr C didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. 
Although considering  the length of time since the sale I can understand why he cant 
remember this.
Mr C says he was pressured into taking the PPI. But he hasnt given  us much detail 
about what Halifax said or did to make  him feel this way. This is a subjective area and 
what one person thinks is pressure another may not. Without further evidence to support  
what Mr C says about this, I dont think its likely Halifax pressured him into taking the 
PPI. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Mr C says he wouldve received some sick pay at the time the policy  was sold.  He also 
says he couldve relied on his family and friends  to help make repayments. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay he wouldve  received   and for up to 12 
months if he was unable to work because of accident or sickness.  The PPI also wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months if he lost his job. It also meant he wouldnt have to rely on 
his friends and family whose ability to help would depend on their own circumstances at 
any given time.  So I think  Mr C wouldve found  the policy useful if he found himself  out of 
work. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN16333172I would like to assure  Mr C that Ive thought carefully about everything  he has said  
including what hes said about being  young and applying for his first mortgage  so he just 
went along with what the adviser said. But for the reasons Ive explained  above,  I think its 
more likely than not that Mr C chose to take the policy knowing he had a choice.  I know Mr C 
will be disappointed  but I dont think his PPI was mis-sold. It follows that I dont  think Mr C 
has lost out as a result  of anything Halifax did wrong. 
Ive also thought about what  Mr C has said about Halifax not investigating his complaint 
properly. But I dont  think hes lost out as a result of any failings in how Halifax  has looked  
into his complaint. So I dont award any compensation here.   
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1633317