K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC delayed processing two international 
transactions involving a US dollar cheque  and a wire transfer. She says that this delayed  
works on her kitchen which resulted in additional  expense. She feels that Barclays  Bank  UK 
PLC gave her misleading information.
Miss A would like compensation for the extra cost that she incurred and for the distress and 
inconvenience that she has suffered. 
background
In 2018, Miss A was having  work done  to her kitchen. On 30 April 2018,  she paid a US dollar  
cheque for $46,000  into her Barclays bank account in the UK. She asked for this cheque  to 
be credited on a negotiation basis. She had paid in cheques previously on this basis.  
On 1 May 2018,  Barclays wrote to her telling her that the cheque  would be processed on a 
collection basis. They informed her that this could take six weeks  to process but that it could 
be longer. They gave her seven  days  within which to ask for the cheque  back if she didnt 
want to proceed on a collection basis. 
Miss A didnt contact  Barclays  asking  for her cheque back. 
Miss A says that payment  was taken from her US dollar account on 14 May 2018. But, as 
she hadnt received  it in her UK account, she contacted Barclays. She was told that it might 
not clear until 12 June 2018.  She was later told that it would clear on 22 June 2018.
Miss A had to pay for goods and services to complete her kitchen. She decided to contact  
her US financial advisers to wire her $11,000  to cover basic costs. 
Unfortunately, this money got lost in the system for a while.  
It appears that Barclays received payment for this wire on 5 June 2018. They say that the 
sort code  for Miss As account was missing  so they couldnt process  the payment. They paid 
back the money on 13 June 2018. It was received back into the original account on around 
27 June 2018.
Miss As cheque finally cleared on 22 June 2018. 
Miss A had to make several  visits to Barclays in her attempts to get these issues  resolved and 
she incurred parking charges due to the length of time she was kept waiting in the branch.
Miss A says that she couldnt finish her kitchen when  she had wanted to. The contractors 
had to come  back once she got the money  to pay for the work.  She says that this cost her an 
extra £3,000. 
Miss A complained to Barclays.
On 30 June 2018, Barclays wrote to Miss A. They  agreed that Miss A was kept in the branch 
unnecessarily and credited her current account  with a refund  of the charges incurred (£77.00). 
They credited Miss As account with a further  £25.00 to reflect the inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN10885062They didnt think that they had done  anything else wrong. Regarding the cheque,  they say 
they told Miss A how long it was going  to take to clear on a collection basis  and that they had 
given her the opportunity to take back the cheque. 
They didnt think it was for them to look into the wire transfer as any investigations regarding 
this should be carried out from the bank where the money was coming  from. 
Miss A didnt agree with this decision  so she came to us. 
Our adjudicator found that Barclays had acted fairly  and reasonably in paying for her parking 
charges and in compensating  her £25 for her inconvenience. 
He thought that the cheque hadnt taken much longer  than six weeks to process once Barclays  
had waited for the initial seven days to see if Miss A wanted to take back the cheque. 
In considering the wire transfer, as it had started  in the US, he didnt think  it was within  our 
remit to consider it. He did suggest  that Miss A make a complaint to her financial adviser as 
it appeared that the original information  provided by them was incomplete. 
Miss A wasnt happy with this decision so it has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Miss A wont be happy with my decision.  I think that Barclays  has acted  fairly  and 
reasonably in this matter.  I will explain why. 
Barclays wrote to Miss A saying that the cheque was going  to be processed  on a collection 
basis. They  gave Miss A the opportunity  to take the cheque  back within seven  days. They 
also said that she could  call them if she wanted  to proceed. If she had called, I think  that the 
process would  have started before  the seven days was up. 
It appears that Miss A didnt call Barclays so they did wait until processing the cheque. The 
letter stated  that the process  could take six weeks  or longer. It took just over six weeks  to 
process once Barclays had waited for the initial seven days  to see if Miss A wanted to take 
her cheque back. 
I dont think that this was a long delay. I appreciate that Miss A has had cheques processed 
before and they havent taken that long. But that doesnt mean that this will always  be the 
case  especially as Barclays had warned  her how long the process could take. 
With regards to the wire transfer,  I too think that it is out of our remit to consider  it. This 
concerns a matter  that originated in the US and is more to do with how it was dealt with in 
the US as I cant see that Barclays Bank UK PLC is responsible  for any delay here. I suggest 
that Miss A takes this up with her financial advisers in the US. 
I think that Barclays did keep Miss A in the branch for longer than was necessary. But I think  
that they have  acted  fairly and reasonably in paying  her parking charges and compensating 
her £25 for the inconvenience caused.  
Ref: DRN10885063my final decision
I dont think that Barclays  Bank UK PLC has delayed matters in this case. So I wont  be 
asking them to do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1088506