K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about a faulty computer he bought with credit  provided by PayPal Europe  
Sarl & Cie, SCA.
background 
In December 2017 Mr S bought a laptop  computer for £1,453.72. He paid using his PayPal 
Credit account. About  three weeks later he complained to PayPal that his computer was not 
working properly, and that it kept crashing and losing his data. He asked for a refund or a 
replacement.
PayPal dealt with this matter under its Buyer Protection policy.  It asked Mr S to provide 
evidence from an independent  third party, and gave him a deadline to do so. Mr S says he 
tried to send the requested evidence, but PayPal insisted that all evidence be provided 
through its website   not by email   and the website would not accept his evidence. He says 
he emailed it instead,  on 8 February 2018.  But PayPal said he had missed its deadline, and 
so in March it rejected  his claim.  Mr S sent his evidence again in April, but PayPal 
maintained its position  that that was too late. Being  dissatisfied with that answer,  Mr S 
brought this complaint to our Service in July. He insisted that he had provided the necessary 
evidence in time, albeit  by email instead of through the website as the website didnt work. 
He had then tried the website again  later on, and had finally managed  to send his evidence 
by that method.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He accepted that PayPal had applied  their 
buyer protection policy correctly and that Mr S had not proved that he had provided  his 
evidence in time.
Mr S did not accept that decision. He said he had provided his evidence in time, albeit by 
email, and that PayPal  should not be able to rely on its own defective systems to avoid his 
claim. He asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not confined to treating this complaint as a complaint about PayPals Buyer Protection 
policy. Purchases made with PayPal Credit  also fall within the scope of section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Where it applies,  section  75 makes the provider of credit jointly 
and severally liable with a supplier  of goods for a breach  of contract  by the supplier. So to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint,  I would  only have to find that section 75 applies to his purchase, 
that there  has been a breach of contract  by the seller of the computer, and that PayPal failed 
to treat Mr Ss claim for a refund as a claim under section 75.
Having considered those questions, they are easy to answer. Section 75 applied  here.  Mr S 
has provided clear evidence from an independent  third party (a computer repair  shop), as 
well as screenshots from the computer, which convincingly demonstrate  that there was a 
serious fault with the computer. It was not fit for purpose. It doesnt matter  when he provided 
PayPal with that evidence, because a claim under section 75 is not subject to the time limits  
Ref: DRN16611022in the Buyer Protection policy, but to the time limits  in the Limitation Act 1980 (six years from 
the breach of contract).
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  implies a term into a contract for the sale of goods  that the 
goods will be of satisfactory  quality. That term was clearly breached  by the supplier,  and 
PayPal is liable for that, so it should  have  done  something. So I currently  intend to uphold 
this complaint.
The question I invite the parties to consider before I issue my final decision is what the 
redress should be. Mr S asked for a full refund, but that might not be proportionate if the 
computer can be repaired for less than the purchase  price.  (The 2015 Act generally  gives  
the supplier the option of repairing defective  goods  before requiring a refund or 
replacement.) Mr S has asked for £10,000  compensation  for his time and trouble, but that is 
much more than I would award for something  like this, and I will award  a considerably  more  
modest amount.  I must also have regard  to whether Mr S attempted to mitigate his loss. It 
might have been open to him to take the computer to be repaired and then claim the cost of 
the repair, and this may have reduced the length of time during which he was without a 
working computer. In connection with this, I note that he spent  £25 on having the fault 
diagnosed on 12 February 2018. I do not know what has happened to the computer since.
I am provisionally minded to uphold this complaint  [and]  to order PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, 
SCA to pay Mr S the cost of repairing the computer,  once Mr S has provided  an estimate or 
an invoice for the cost,  plus some compensation for his trouble.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr S replied  with convincing reasons why the computer  should be replaced  or refunded,  
instead of repaired. He asked for £2,000 compensation, based on 30 hours of his time at 
£150 per hour.
PayPal agreed that Mr Ss section 75 claim should  succeed. It agreed to refund him the 
purchase price, and also the cost of the diagnosis. (It also argued that Mr S had only asked it 
to consider a claim under its Buyer Protection  Policy, and that it should not be obliged  to tell 
its customers about their right to bring  a claim against them.)
my findings
I was pleased to see that PayPal has now agreed  to refund Mr S the price  of the computer, 
and the cost of the fault diagnosis. Since  it has agreed to do that, I need  say no more  about 
section 75.
Im not going  to award Mr S £2,000  for his wasted time. I do appreciate that his time is 
valuable, but I think that amount of compensation would be disproportionate.  However,  
I accept his explanation for why he did not attempt to have the computer repaired, so I will 
not proceed on the basis that he failed to mitigate his loss.
I should explain that I cannot  award compensation for the inconvenience and wasted time 
caused by the failure of the computer. I can only compensate him for the inconvenience 
caused by the failure of PayPals website  to accept his evidence, and for the delay that 
occasioned in resolving this matter. I think  that £150 is fair compensation for that, and is in 
line with what this Service would  typically award.
Ref: DRN16611023my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to pay 
Mr S:
£1,453.72,  being the price of the computer,
£25 for the cost of the diagnosis of the fault,
£150 for his inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1661102