K820x#14complaint
Miss S is unhappy with Santander UK Plcs  actions  in relation to her sons bank account. 
background
In 2008 Miss S opened  an account for her son. She says the intention  was to put some 
money away for him for when he was 18. 
In March 2019 Miss S contacted Santander.  She had the passbook to her sons  account  
which showed a balance of £200. As her son had recently turned 18, she wanted to 
withdraw the money. 
Santander explained that some years earlier the funds had been withdrawn and the account 
closed. Miss S disputes that she did this and complained.
Santander explained that due to the passage  of time, they no longer  had detailed  records.  
But they could  see that the account  was closed  on 16 February  2010  in a branch  local to 
where Miss S lived at the time. The balance of £269.41 was withdrawn at the time. They also 
explained that they could  see Miss S credited  £100 cash  into her own account in the same  
branch on the same  day. 
They further said Miss Ss son was nine years old in 2010 and so wouldnt have been  able to 
close the account himself.  And on the balance  of probabilities, they thought it was most likely 
that Miss S withdrew the funds and closed the account. 
Miss S strongly contests this and brought her complaint to our service.  One of our 
investigators sympathised with her situation,  but didnt agree the complaint should be 
upheld. She agreed  with Santanders outcome and didnt recommend that they needed to 
take any further action.  
As she still disagrees, Miss S has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for 
Miss S, so Id like to explain  why. 
In cases like this where  there  is a dispute  as to what has happened,  I have to make a finding 
on the balance  of probabilities as to what I think is most likely to have happened. 2010  is 
nine years ago and this is beyond  the period of time that Id expect a business  to maintain 
records. So I dont think Santander are at fault for not having more detailed  records  
available.
Miss S has shared evidence of the passbook for her sons account with us. This shows  a 
credit balance of £200  as of 29 April 2008. But Santander have shown that the closing  
balance was £269.41 on 16 February  2010.  
Ref: DRN11796832I understand that Miss S thinks the passbook would  have been updated if the account had 
been closed. But Santander have explained it would be possible to close an account without 
a passbook, as long as suitable identification  was provided. 
I think this is supported by the fact that the passbook balance differs from the closing 
balance. This shows that the account can be serviced without  the passbook, as at some 
point the account was credited with a further £69.41 which wasnt recorded  in the passbook 
itself. 
Santander have  also evidenced that Miss S was in the same  branch on the same day and 
credited her own account with £100 cash.  I find this persuasive evidence to show  that Miss S 
was in that branch on that day.  
I dont doubt Miss Ss sincerity. But stepping back and looking at the complaint as a whole, I 
dont think Santander  are being unreasonable or unfair in concluding  it is more  likely than not 
that she withdrew the funds and closed the account.  And Im not persuaded that Santanders 
inability to provide  further proof  of this from 2010 is unreasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss S was hoping for. But there is insufficient evidence 
to persuade me that Santander have done anything  wrong. So Im not able to ask that they 
reimburse Miss S as she would like. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1179683