K821x#15Complaint
Miss S has complained  about  loans taken  with Everyday Lending Limited. She says the 
loans were unaffordable and trapped her in a debt spiral.
Background
Miss S took out three loans between October 2014  and June 2017. The loans were all high 
cost credit loans and from the information  provided,  the loans were  as follows:
Loan 
numberStart date Amount (£)Monthly 
repayment 
(£)Term
1 October 
20145,000 153.97 60 months
2 April 2015 6,019.94 191.88 60 months
3 June 2017 1,000 65.22 24 months
From the information provided, it appears  Miss S has repaid loan 1 but loans 2 and 3 remain 
active.
One of our adjudicators looked  at what Miss S and Everyday Lending said and thought 
Miss S complaint should be upheld. The adjudicator thought Everyday Lending hadnt done 
enough before agreeing to lend Miss S any of the loans and had it done more,  Everyday 
Lending wouldve  seen  it shouldnt have lent to Miss S.
In response to the adjudicators findings,  Everyday Lending agreed that it shouldnt  have  lent 
Miss S loans 2 and 3 but disagreed that it irresponsibly lent loan 1. As the complaint wasnt 
fully resolved, its been passed to me  an ombudsman to make  a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner  without it adversely impacting  on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks  needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed  was due to be repaid. 
I should say that as Everyday Lending  has agreed to put things right for Miss S on loans 2 
and 3, that part of the complaint has been  resolved and so my decision has focused on loan 
1, the part of Miss S complaint that remains in dispute.
 
Ref: DRN17431262Everyday Lending  says it checked  Miss S bank  statement, payslip and credit file before 
agreeing to lend loan 1. And based on what it saw from this it thought  it reasonable to lend to 
Miss S as a result.
Ive carefully thought  about what Everyday Lending has provided and what it has said. But 
overall given everything Everyday Lending  knew about Miss S and what she was being 
expected to commit to, I think Everyday  Lending  should have done more.
Everyday Lendings  checked revealed that Miss S had an outstanding payday  loan of around 
£450, its checks also showed that had a number of other  credit  commitments,  three of which 
were being  consolidated with this loan. Miss S was also substantially  using the overdrafts on 
both her current accounts.
Given the overall picture that Everyday Lendings checks  painted,  I think  it showed that 
Miss S had many credit commitments and was struggling with managing  them all. I say this 
because, she was deep into her overdraft and at the same  time needing to use three  credit  
cards  which were close to their limits  and still needing to take out a payday  loan. I think  
Miss S circumstances showed that she was dependent on credit for her day to day 
expenses.
 
In my opinion Everyday Lending  didnt  react to information it had  it had a bank statement 
but didnt take a close enough look at it or react to the information it saw. Had it done that it 
would have been aware that Miss S outgoings  outweighed  her income.  Also, its credit 
checks show adverse information   where  Miss S was already struggling to keep  up 
payments with her at least one of her credit accounts.
Also, I think the income and outgoing information  Everyday Lending used to approve  the first 
loan suggests  that Miss S couldnt afford  the loan. It recorded her monthly income  as being 
£1,544, a figure it got from her bank statement and credit file. Her monthly rent which  Miss S 
suggests included  all her bills were  around £632. Everyday Lending says it used 35% of her 
income to work out her other living costs to be around £540. It then worked out her credit 
commitments as being around £169,  although I note that this figure didnt take into account 
the short term loan she was due to repay within her next pay period.
Given that Miss S was likely  due to repay more than £500 for the payday loan, she wasnt  in 
a position to comfortably afford the first payment for this loan, as she was already due to 
spend more than her income even before taking into account the repayment for this loan.
Everyday Lending  as a responsible lender shouldnt have given Miss S the loan in these 
circumstances as she couldnt afford it. And I think she has lost out as a result.
What Everyday Lending  should do to put things right
To put things right for Miss S, Everyday  Lending should:
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result  of loans 1 to 3; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove all interest and charges applied to any outstanding loan amounts and it may 
choose to use the redress to offset any outstanding  capital amounts;
Ref: DRN17431263if theres still a capital balance  outstanding, it should agree a suitable repayment plan 
with Miss S for the repayment of any outstanding capital;
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss S credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges  on these loans*;
HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending  must  give Miss S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
*This will be after Miss S has fully repaid the outstanding capital amounts.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss S complaint. Everyday Lending  Limited 
should pay Miss S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
Tola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1743126