K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds  decision to cancel his car insurance 
policy. Mr R says it didnt give him a reason to justify its decision.
background
Mr R bought a car insurance policy online with UKI in July 2018. In September  2018 UKI 
wrote to Mr R and gave him seven  days notice of its intention to cancel his policy. It said it 
had concerns with the accuracy of the information provided when the policy was taken out.
Mr R called UKI and an agent  explained the reasons for UKIs concerns. She told Mr R that if 
he wanted to cancel the policy himself,  he could but would need to do so before UKI 
intended to cancel it. In any event, Mr R would need  to pay the cancellation fee and for the 
days he was insured. The agent  said if UKI cancel the policy,  Mr R will need to declare it to 
future insurers. She said UKI wouldnt be prepared to offer insurance  in the future to Mr R.
Mr R complained about UKIs decision to cancel his policy. And he said the agent  was rude 
to him. But UKI said its decision was correct. It didnt agree  that its agent had been  rude.  
Mr R asked us to look at his complaint. 
The adjudicator thought  UKI had followed the cancellation process correctly  and in line with 
the policy. She didnt  think the agent  had been  rude to Mr R.
Mr R didnt agree. He said UKI cancelled his policy without giving him a reason. He said it 
didnt provide any evidence of wrong doing  on his part - or that it was a fraudulent policy.
Mr R wants UKI to remove the cancellation  from his record  so he doesnt  need to declare it 
to future insurers. He said its unfair of UKI to charge him a cancellation fee. Mr R said the 
agent wrongly accused him of answering yes to having children under age 16 on his 
application. Mr R has provided a screenshot of an online quote to show  this wasnt  true. 
Mr R said hes done nothing wrong. 
So he wants  an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr Rs policy  with UKI says it can cancel his policy by giving him seven days notice if it has a 
valid reason for doing so.
UKI has provided its screenshot of the online journey for Mr Rs application. It shows that the 
answer given to the question whether Mr R had children  under 16 was answered yes. 
Ive listened to the key call between  UKI and Mr R. The agent asked Mr R a series of 
questions to understand the circumstances under which the policy  was applied for. Mr R told 
the agent he didnt have  any children. Based on the screenshot provided by UKI, I think  the 
Ref: DRN10513732agent correctly  told Mr R that hed answered  yes to this question.  I dont think  the agent  
was rude to Mr R.
The agent  told Mr R in the call that the IP address used to set up Mr Rs policy  was linked  to 
several other  policies  set up against  UKI. It therefore decided not to insure Mr R as it had 
concerns the policy had been set up through an unauthorised  broker. 
I understand Mr R believes UKIs  decision to cancel his policy isnt justified. But UKI did give 
Mr R a reason  and gave  him sufficient notice  of its decision to cancel his policy.  UKI is 
entitled to do this in line with the policy. So based on all of the information available  to me, I 
dont think UKI acted unreasonably.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1051373