K820x#14complaint
Aviva Insurance Limited has accepted responsibility for dealing with this complaint as the 
policy complained  about was insured with a company that Aviva  acquired. So, to keep things 
simpler, Ill refer in my decision to Aviva as the seller.
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Theres only limited information  about Mr Ss mortgage and this PPI after such  a long time. 
None of the paperwork from the original  sale is available and Aviva  and Mr S couldnt  
confirm how the policy was sold, although Mr S thinks it was sold in or around 1995. 
Aviva said the policy  was a stand-alone product designed to protect mortgage repayments in 
the event that Mr S was unable to work. It paid out in the event of a successful claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment or accidental death. Aviva also told us that Mr S 
wouldve had to complete and sign a separate PPI application for the PPI  it wasnt  
something he couldve taken out on his mortgage  application.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel there  was enough evidence to uphold this complaint. Mr S 
disagrees with our adjudicators view. Mr S mainly told us that he was unhappy  as he 
couldnt recall any discussion about  PPI and he said it wasnt something he needed. So he 
feels that the policy must have been mis-sold to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
I dont know how Aviva wouldve presented PPI to Mr S or explained  it to him during any 
discussions. There are no notes of any discussion about the PPI. But this isnt surprising 
given that this PPI was taken out so long ago - I wouldnt expect a business to keep records  
indefinitely and the lack of paperwork isnt a reason for me to uphold  this complaint. 
Its also completely understandable that Mr S doesnt recall  how he came to have the policy.  
And after so long it wouldnt be reasonable to expect him to remember exactly  what  he was 
told when he was remortgaging and he took out the PPI. So I cant  just rely on what Mr S 
says. I have to look at everything  Ive seen and been told and decide what  I think is most 
likely to have happened.
Aviva says that Mr S wouldve had to fill in a separate application to take out the PPI. I think  
thats probably right. So I think its likely that at the time he wouldve understood that having 
PPI wasn't necessarily included as part of the mortgage deal he wanted to switch to  PPI 
was something extra  that it was up to him to arrange if he wanted  to have it.
Ref: DRN14064012And I think its likely  that Mr S decided he wanted the PPI because  Aviva says he wouldve 
been written to shortly  afterwards and sent details  of the cover hed chosen showing that 
Mr S was covered  including what it would cost. It says this letter  would also have  included  
information about the right to cancel the policy if Mr S didn't want  it. And as far as I know  
Mr S didnt query the position when, as I think is likely, he got such a letter.
I dont have any details  of his borrowing but I expect his mortgage was an important financial 
commitment at the time.  His home  wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage payments werent 
kept up to date. So, I can see why Mr S mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
I can completely understand why Mr S mightve  forgotten this now. But, on balance, I think  
its likely  that Mr S decided that he wanted  to have the benefits and security that the PPI 
offered and he chose  to buy the policy, knowing it was optional. 
As I dont know exactly what (if anything)  was said about the PPI its not clear whether Aviva 
advised Mr S to take out the policy. Given the lack of paperwork showing how the PPI was 
sold to Mr S, I think the fairest way to decide  this complaint is to look at it on the basis  that 
Aviva recommended  the policy  to him. If a business  makes a recommendation about PPI, it 
doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Even if I assume Aviva personally recommended the policy to Mr S it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time.  
Looking at the policy document that Aviva has provided, which it thinks is the one he bought, 
based on what I know of his circumstances at the time Mr S was eligible for the policy. 
Mr S told us his employer wouldve paid him full sick pay for 6 months.  After  that he would've 
been able to depend on getting half his basic salary until he either returned to work or 
reached the age of 65.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr S told us. But even if hes right in recalling  that he 
wouldve had such generous sick pay, I dont  think that his circumstances meant he couldnt  
have benefitted  from the PPI if hed needed  to claim. Heres why I say this.
The policy paid a monthly benefit  for 12 months  per claim in the event of accident  or 
sickness. This was longer  than Mr S told us he wouldve received full sick pay from his 
employer if he couldnt work  and it wouldve been  paid in addition to his work benefits. So 
I think the policy couldve provided a useful benefit   especially if Mr S mightve  had extra 
costs as a result of being off work as a result  of illness or disability and he was only able to 
rely on half pay after the first 6 months off work.  
If Mr S had an accident or became disabled so that he was unable  to return  to work and 
dependent on getting half pay for the rest of his working life, I think  that having  a monthly 
benefit that protected his mortgage repayments  fully for a year couldve been useful at 
whats likely to have been a difficult time.
The policy also covered  Mr S in the event he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Repeat claims were possible, providing Mr S with long term protection.
Ref: DRN14064013Mr S has said his family mightve supported him if necessary. But relying  on someone else 
to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to his redundancy money if he lost his job. This wouldve 
protected any lump  sum Mr S mightve got, giving him more financial security. 
So I find that the PPI provided Mr S with worthwhile  protection in his particular situation  and 
a recommendation  (if there was one) to have  it wouldve been  reasonable.
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as if this affected Mr S. So, I dont 
think more information  about the policys exclusions and limitations  wouldve made any 
difference to Mr Ss decision to take out PPI. 
I dont know if the cost of the PPI was made clear to Mr S when  he bought the policy. Aviva 
says the cost of the policy was shown in the welcome letter that wouldve  been sent to him. 
So I think its likely that Mr S couldve  queried it then if he decided  this wasnt  something he 
wanted to pay for. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened.  Mr S hasnt 
suggested that he couldnt  afford the monthly  premiums. And I think its likely he wouldve 
signed an instruction  form to his bank to cover  the cost as his mortgage monthly repayments 
were set up separately. So it seems he was happy  at the time to pay for PPI. 
Given the serious consequences  of defaulting  on a debt secured on his home, I think Mr S 
probably wouldve  appreciated  the peace  of mind this cover  gave him (even  if hes forgotten  
now). And as he was paying for the PPI monthly,  he could cancel it anytime without  further 
cost if he wished.
Its possible that Aviva mightnt have  given Mr S clear information about all aspects of the 
PPI. But I think Mr S chose to take out the insurance and I can see why he mightve  thought 
it could be useful. Taking all his circumstances into account, even if there were failings in the 
way Aviva sold him PPI, on balance  I dont think that better  information  wouldve put Mr S off 
having it. So I dont  find hes lost out as a result of anything  that Aviva  mightve  done  wrong.  
And theres  nothing it needs to do to put things right. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1406401