K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about the rate of interest Santander UK Plc has applied to her mortgage.
Miss M is unhappy that Santander:
-Wouldnt let her renegotiate the terms of her fixed rate mortgage  product when Bank  of 
England base rate fell after the credit crunch; 
-Has applied  its standard  variable rate (SVR) to her mortgage since 2010 which  she says 
is unfairly high; and 
-Has refused  to give her a competitive interest rate for years and has only recently said 
that new products are available  to her following her complaint. 
Miss M wants  Santander to refund the extra interest  she feels  shes  paid over the last 11 
years, and to compensate her for the fact shes struggled to make higher  payments to her 
mortgage than was necessary.
background
In 2008 Miss M took out a capital repayment  mortgage  with Santander, having met with a 
mortgage broker. She took out a mortgage  of around £139,000 to be repaid over 15 years. 
The mortgage was initially on a fixed rate of 5.95% until August 2010. It then moved onto 
Santanders SVR.
Miss M says she tried to renegotiate her interest rate while  her mortgage was still on the 
fixed rate. And, shes asked a number of times since for a more competitive interest rate but 
Santanders not been able to offer her another rate until 2019.  Miss M says shes been 
trapped on an unfairly high interest rate with Santander for 11 years  and that shes  been a 
mortgage rate prisoner.  
Miss M complained to Santander  in May 2019, and it issued its final response  on 22 May 
2019. It didnt  uphold Miss Ms complaint  and said its rates  had been subject to eligibility  
criteria which Miss M hadnt met at certain points  over time.
Miss M referred  her complaint to us. Santander hasnt given its consent for us to look at any 
part of her complaint  relating to events  more than six years ago. Ive already  considered  
which parts  of this complaint we can consider in a separate decision. I determined  that were  
able to look at the part of Miss Ms complaint about the rate of interest shes paid on her 
mortgage since 2013 and Santanders  decision  not to offer new products to Miss M until the 
date she made her complaint to it. The other parts of Miss Ms complaint have been brought  
to us out of time.
Our investigator gave  her view on whether Santander had acted unfairly in not offering Miss 
M a lower interest rate product until 2019.  In summary, she thought  there had been times 
when Miss M hadnt had products available to her because her mortgage had been in 
arrears at times between  2013 and 2019.  However,  she was satisfied there had also been  
times when  rates were available and Miss M either hadnt known about this or had chosen  
not to take them out. She didnt think Santander should be asked to do anything differently 
as a result  of the complaint.
Ref: DRN18107682Miss M disagreed with our investigators findings.  Miss M replied to say, in summary:
-she still considers herself  to be financially compromised  by Santanders actions;
-the ombudsman should focus  on events before 2018, when Santander first made  rates 
available to her;
-Santander must  have  known that the financial crash was coming when it gave her a 
high interest rate product  on 5.95%;
-she feels trapped in her situation without  a resolution; 
-Santander told her that she didnt  meet its criteria  when she asked for new rates.  At no 
point was she given  the option to proceed;
-she was unaware that other products were available and Santander  should  have 
advised her as such;
-Miss M feels that Santander should  now put that right; and
-Miss M was prompted to ask for a new rate in 2018 having seen things in the media 
about mortgage rate prisoners.
Miss M asked that an ombudsman look at her case again and reach a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld  for broadly the same  reasons given by our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Miss M has complained that Santander  didnt  make a more competitive mortgage  interest  
rate available to her for years. Miss M says shes been trapped on Santanders SVR and 
that shes been a mortgage rate prisoner.
Ive looked at Miss Ms mortgage history. Miss Ms explained that she runs her own business  
and that there have  been times when she has struggled to pay the mortgage.  I can see there  
have been periods of time over the years  when Miss M has struggled to meet  her mortgage 
payments and the loan has fallen into arrears. 
Santanders said that it doesnt  make  new interest rate products (such  as fixed  rates,  
discount rates or preferential tracker rates)  available to mortgage customers who arent up-
to-date with their mortgage repayments.  From  my wider experience of the mortgage market,  
this isnt an unusual  position for lenders to take.  Lenders typically  offer more competitive 
mortgage interest rate products available to customers who are complying with the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage.  And customers who present the lowest  risk are typically  
offered the lowest interest rate products in the product range as an incentive to stop them 
moving to another lender. I dont think its unreasonable or unfair  that Santander didnt make 
new interest rate products  available to Miss Ms mortgage at times when her mortgage  has 
been in arrears. 
Ref: DRN18107683Ive looked at what Santander  said about the interest rate that would apply to the mortgage 
when the loan was taken  out. Miss Ms mortgage  has been on Santanders  SVR from 2010. 
This is the standard reversionary rate that Santander mortgages  go back onto when another 
interest rate product  (such  as a fixed rate or a discounted rate) has expired. This is also the 
arrangement that was set out in Miss Ms mortgage offer in 2008 when she took out the loan. 
In section 4 of the mortgage offer it says:
In respect  of Loan 1 after 3 August 2010, interest will be charged at Abbeys SVR currently  
7.09% for the remaining term of the mortgage.
Im satisfied that Miss Ms mortgage  was set up to revert to Santanders  (in place of Abbey 
as the predecessor lender) SVR. But thats not the end of the matter. Miss Ms not disputed  
that her mortgage was set up to move onto the SVR when her fixed rate expired. Her 
complaint is that, once  the mortgage  did revert to the SVR, that the level of the SVR was 
unfairly high. And, Miss M also complains that Santander should have done more  to tell her 
about the times when it could have made rates available  to her from 2013 to 2018.  
was Santanders  SVR unfairly high?
Miss M has said that shes been on an unfairly high SVR. Ive looked at Santanders level of 
SVR from 2013  to 2018. Its been  between 4.49% and 4.99% during the course  of this 
complaint. I dont consider that to be out of line with other comparable  lenders SVRs over 
the same  period of time. Im also aware  that if Miss M was unhappy with the interest rate 
being applied  to her mortgage,  she was able to move her mortgage  to another lender without  
incurring a break cost such as an early  repayment  charge  throughout the period of this 
complaint. It may be that Miss M couldnt  move  her mortgage to another lender as there  
were other practical barriers, such as arrears or issues with her credit file, that preventing 
her mortgage being accepted by a new lender. But I dont think  it would be fair to hold 
Santander responsible for the fact Miss M either didnt or couldnt get a mortgage  
somewhere else. I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
should Santander have told Miss M sooner that there were other interest  rate products 
available for her from 2013 to 2018?
Santanders said to us that there have been  times  when it would have  made interest rate 
products available to Miss M over the years. Its shown me evidence  to support this. Its 
unfortunate that during  the periods when Miss M had rates available, she didnt ask Santander 
for a new product. I can see why Miss M questions why Santander didnt get in touch with her 
before to tell her what it could make available to her. During this period of time, it was 
considered the borrowers responsibility  to ask for better interest rates  from their mortgage  
lender, rather than the lenders duty to inform them what rates  they now have available.  
Over the period from 2013  to 2018, Santander  didnt have  a duty under regulation  or good  
industry practice at the time to contact Miss M as soon as a rate became available.  It 
reminded customers like Miss M, with mortgages on the SVR,  to get in touch via her annual 
mortgage statements  to see if a better rate was available.  I dont  think it was unreasonable 
that Santander didnt make  additional  specific contact with Miss M to tell her that a rate had 
recently become  available to her.
Ref: DRN18107684Even if it had, Im not entirely persuaded that Miss M would have taken such a product out. In 
2018 Santander offered new interest  rate products to Miss M but she chose not to take out any 
of the products available  to her at that time. Again in May 2019 Miss M contacted Santander,  
and it offered her new interest rates. Miss M chose not to take out any products on that 
occasion either and to the best of my knowledge  she hasnt taken out any products since.
Overall I dont think theres evidence that Santander  treated  Miss M unfairly with respect to 
the rate of interest  applied  to her mortgage.  Regrettably, it seems Miss M didnt ask for a 
product at the times  when  rates  were  available to her. And, at other  times Miss M asked for 
products but no rates  were available because the mortgage was in arrears. More  recently  
Santander has offered  rates to Miss M in 2018  and 2019 and, for whatever reason, Miss M 
has chosen not to take them out. I can see why Miss M regrets she hadnt had access  to 
lower interest rates in previous years when shed  have appreciated a lower  monthly  payment  
on her mortgage. However, having taken into account all the wider circumstances of this 
particular complaint, I dont think Santander has acted  unfairly  in the way its applied interest 
to this mortgage or offered  products  to Miss M. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February  2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1810768