K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) hasnt acted fairly 
when contacting him about his mortgage,  particularly  the arrears.  He wants matters  put right 
and to resolve the issue outside of court.
background
Mr A had a mortgage with Halifax. He got into arrears. He was unhappy that some  letters  
were sent to another property that he owned  (which  wasnt his correspondence address), 
and said that he hadnt received key letters about possession  proceedings and the arrears.  
Mr A was also unhappy that letters  sent to the actual propertys address about  the 
possession proceedings were  addressed  to the occupier, and not to him.
Mr A complained to Halifax.  It said that it did send some letters to the other property  owned  
by Mr A, which wasnt correct. Halifax apologised,  said that it had updated its system and 
paid £300 compensation  for the trouble and upset caused by this failure. But it explained that 
Mr A was in arrears and that the related  letters sent to the property address addressed  to the 
occupier were correct.  
Mr A complained to us. The investigators view was that some  letters  had been sent to the 
wrong correspondence address, as Halifax had accepted. She noted that Halifax  had 
updated its system and paid £300 for the trouble and upset caused, which the investigator  
thought was fair and reasonable. But in relation to the arrears, the investigator said Halifax 
had tried repeatedly  to contact Mr A, and had written to the right address (so it was likely that 
the letters had been received). As Mr A didnt  respond, the investigator  thought  that it was 
fair for Halifax to go ahead with possession proceedings as Mr M was in arrears.
Mr A disagreed. He denied receiving the letters sent to the property address. He sent a copy  
of the letters  sent to the other property which he owned, which he said meant the court 
proceeding should be stopped.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt a court of law; its up to the court dealing with the possession  proceedings 
whether its content  for the proceedings to continue, given some letters were sent to other of 
Mr As properties. I note the key letters were sent to the property address though.  All I can 
look at is whether Halifax was acting fairly and reasonably  in issuing proceedings.
Mr A was in arrears. Mr A himself says that he knew this and was deliberately  waiting until 
the last minute  to pay an offer to repay  due to cashflow issues. Given  the arrears history, I 
cant say that Halifax  was unfair or unreasonable to issue proceedings or continue them in 
the circumstances. And Mr A was sent numerous  letters about the arrears and the likelihood  
of legal action,  both to the property address and the other property which he owned.  The 
solicitors for Halifax sent letters to the property address,  which is legally required, and 
theres nothing wrong in addressing those  letters to the occupier. 
Ref: DRN13697932Mr A says that he didnt  receive the letters addressed to him at the property  address  over a 
significant period  of time. But the letters were correctly addressed and Halifax isnt 
responsible for the delivery  of post.  Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the letters 
were sent and received.
Halifax accepts that it was incorrect to send letters to Mr As other property and has updated 
its system. I dont think though this error made  any difference  to the legal proceedings; Mr A 
was sent key letters to the correct address and was waiting until the last moment to make  an 
offer to resolve matters. I think though that this failure did cause Mr A trouble and upset, but 
also think £300 compensation  is more  than fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. Mr A is 
more upset that proceedings have now been  issued, which  is something for which I havent 
found Halifax to be at fault.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
15 November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1369793