K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited refused to let him reject  a 
car. 
background
In February 2018  Mr M bought  a second hand car by means  of a 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. The car was some  eight 
years old and had done 39,400 miles.  About a week later Mr M 
contacted Moneybarn  to say he had some problems with the car. He 
said the trim next to the gear lever  was damaged,  the key didn't  open the 
boot and the sunroof  was damaged. He also noted that there was 
moisture inside the boot, the fuel cap was broken, and the CD player  
was faulty.
Moneybarn says it contacted the garage which said that the issues  were 
cosmetic. It asked Mr M for evidence of the defects and he provided a 
list of the alleged faults, but no supporting  evidence. Later he provided 
invoices for routine repairs and photographs  showing the damaged trim 
and the diesel cap which appeared to no longer be connected to the 
vehicle but was intact.
Mr M left the car at the garage and Moneybarn asked it for comments  on 
the faults.  It was unable to locate an issue with the CD player and 
considered that this may be due to user error, and it explained  that the 
boot doesnt  have a remote opening function and must be opened 
manually.
Mr M was unwilling to collect the car which was incurring storage 
charges. He called  Moneybarn on 18 April and its records show that: 
Customer called  following  missed  call, he advised he is terminating the 
contract and wants his money back. Stated  this is not an option, advised 
VT means  he will owe something, customer stated will not pay a penny  
then stated he wanted this in writing and hung up. Moneybarn  arranged 
for the car to be sold at auction  with the proceeds  being set against Mr 
Ms account. However the proceeds were not sufficient  to cover the full 
amount due. 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by 
one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld. He said that 
Ref: DRN18661772in order  for this service to conclude he was entitled to reject the car and 
cancel the contract,  we would need to see evidence that showed the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when  it was supplied  to him. 
However, as the car had been sold, it wasnt  available for an 
independent assessment. He considered the limited  evidence available 
and concluded the apparent faults were not of such  a nature as to merit 
rejection. He said the faults  relating to the ripped  vanguard trim, the 
detached fuel cap and the loose  rear view mirror could all be considered  
as cosmetic. 
He noted the car didn't have a remote  boot opening function and the 
garage said it could find no fault with the CD player or any dampness  in 
the boot.
He said that when considering satisfactory quality,  we consider what  
faults are present and whether this can reasonably mean  the car is of 
unsatisfactory quality. We also need  to be satisfied that the faults of the 
car were present at the point of sale and were caused  due to an inherent  
defect rather than general wear and tear.
Mr M didnt agree and said that the car was faulty and the manager of 
the garage agreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2018 Mr M bought a new car which was financed by Moneybarn  by 
means of a conditional sale agreement. As it is the supplier  it can be 
held liable  for the quality of the goods at the point of supply or if they 
weren't what was ordered.
Mr M claims there were faults that entitled him to reject the car and so 
he left it with the garage and refused to make any payments to 
Moneybarn. That was unfortunate as I regret to say that he has not 
provided evidence to show that the car was in such  a state  to allow him 
to reject  it. 
Ref: DRN18661773The garage  says the broken trim had been fixed before he picked the 
car up, but in testing  it Mr M broke  it again. The garage  says it agreed  to 
repair the trim. The fuel cap plastic connection is broken. But this is 
minor matter and not unreasonable  for a car of this age. The boot catch  
wasnt broken; the car just didnt  have the feature which Mr M presumed 
it had.
The garage  disagrees that the CD player was broken and as the car has 
been sold I cannot say whether  it is right or whether Mr M is right on this 
issue. Similarly  with the boot dampness  I cannot say if this was present  
or was so bad as to merit rejection.  Overall I cannot say that Mr M has 
demonstrated that the car wasnt fit for purpose and Therefore  I cannot  
agree with him that he should be allowed to reject it. 
I am satisfied that Moneybarn gave Mr M due notice of its intention to 
sell the car and recover its losses and I cannot say that it did anything 
wrong in so doing.  
my final decision
My final decision  is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr M to accept  or 
reject my decision before 
7 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1866177