K821x#15complaint
Mr T, with the help of a representative, complains that in 2011 Intelligent  Money  Ltd failed to 
send all but one of the pensions he switched to it to his chosen platform  for investment. As a 
result, these  monies  remained in its suspension  account until recently.
background
Having received advice from an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA), Mr T switched his
existing pensions to a SIPP with Intelligent Money, and it was instructed to transfer  the
monies received  to a platform for investment.
On 23 July 2011, Mr T signed a note confirming to the adviser that he did not want any
ongoing servicing on the policy.
Over seven  years later when Mr T was looking to access  his pension it came to light that
only one of the pensions Mr T had switched to Intelligent Money had been  sent to his chosen
platform for investment.
Mr T complained to Intelligent Money  and asked it to compensate  him for his losses.
Intelligent Money accepted  that it did fail to send all but one of the pensions  it received on to
the platform for investment, which resulted in these remaining  in its suspension account.
However, it did not agree that it is reasonable for it to be held solely  responsible for this. It
was of the view that responsibility also lays with the platform because  it did not chase the
funds in line with its established working  practices  and the adviser because he did not
ensure his advice  was implemented.
Initially Intelligent Money offered  to refund one years fees (£1,468.66) on the basis that if the
adviser had reviewed the policy  on its anniversary,  the error would have come  to light, and
the situation would have  been rectified. It later increased its offer to £5,000.
Mr T disagreed, he highlighted that no ongoing  advice or reviews were provided   and,
ultimately, that but for Intelligent  Moneys  error the pension would have been invested
throughout this time as it ought to have been,  so it should compensate him in full.
Unhappy with its response, Mr T referred  his complaint to this service.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint, initially he considered if the complaint  had been
brought in time, ultimately,  he concluded that it had. He then went on to consider the merits
of Mr Ts complaint. He concluded that the complaint should be upheld,  and that Intelligent
Money should compensate him in full for the investment growth Mr T missed out on and, in
addition, that it should pay him £200  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by its
mistake.
Intelligent Money disagreed, whilst  it accepted that it made the mistake, it remained of the
view that the adviser and the platform shared responsibility for the loss Mr T suffered
because if they had done what they ought to have done, the error would have come to light
and been rectified  shortly  after it happened.  On this basis, it remained  of the view that its
offer of £5,000 was fair but it agreed to offer £200 for distress  and inconvenience in addition
to this.
The investigator put the offer to Mr T but he did not accept it. Upon review of the complaint
Ref: DRN11066122the investigator found that the revised  offer was fair. Mr T maintained that Intelligent  Money
was solely  responsible for the error and should compensate  him in full for his losses.
Because agreement  could  not be reached, the complaint was passed to me for review.
I issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought the complaint should be upheld  in 
part on 26 January 2021, my provisional findings are attached  and form part of this decision.  
Intelligent Money calculated redress in line with my provisional decision but did not make  
any further submissions.  Mr T disagreed with my findings, briefly he said that: 
Intelligent Money  was given simple  instructions  to transfer four pensions  to the 
selected platform, it failed to do this and only transferred one of the pensions. It has 
not explained how it happened. This suggests a failure of its internal  systems and 
controls. Where can the fault not to transfer possibly lie? 
The fault does  not lie with three parties, Intelligent Money made the mistake  and has 
not been able to show its systems and controls  work  properly. 
If Intelligent Money  had transferred the monies  in line with the instructions, then he 
would not be in this position. 
So, Intelligent Money are 100% responsible for his losses and he does not 
understand how we have  concluded  that it is allowed  to make a basic error and then 
discharge responsibility on others.  
Because agreement  could  not be reached, the complaint has been passed back  to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute  that Intelligent Money made  the mistake that has resulted in three  quarters 
of Mr Ts pension  remaining in a suspension account for several years. I do understand why 
Mr T feels that it should compensate him in full as a result  of this.  That said, I remain  of the 
view that it is fair and reasonable that Intelligent Money pays only a third of the 
compensation calculated as set out below for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.  
My findings  are attached and form part of this decision. 
If Mr Ts adviser  had ensured that his advice  had been implemented, then the error  would 
have been discovered and rectified and, if the platform had chased the funds it was 
expecting, I think  this also would have resulted in the error being discovered.  
I understand that Mr T feels strongly  that Intelligent Money should compensate him in full for 
his losses but I am satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances. 
 
Fair compensation
To compensate Mr T, Intelligent Money  will first need to establish what his pension would
now be worth if the monies had been sent to the platform provider in line with the instructions
provided.
Ref: DRN11066123If Intelligent Money has access to sufficient information, it can undertake this calculation
itself. If it does not have  sufficient information to do this, it should contact the platform
provider and ask it to provide a notional value of what the scheme would now be worth if all
of the monies  had been sent to it as instructed and in a timely manner. For the purposes of
the notional calculation the provider  should  be told to assume the monies in the scheme
would have been invested in an identical  manner  to how the monies  that were  sent to it were
actually invested  from the date of investment and to date.
If there are any difficulties in it calculating  the notional value or the obtaining notional
valuation from the provider, then Intelligent Money should instead  arrive at a notional
valuation by assuming the monies  would  have enjoyed  a return in line with the FTSE UK
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of
return that could  have been  achieved  over the period in question.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index (prior to 1 March  2017, 
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market  Income Total Return Index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing  different asset  classes, mainly  UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risto 
get a higher return.
It does not mean that Mr T would have invested  his monies in some kind of index 
tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly reflethe 
sort of return Mr T could have  obtained.
The notional value  of the scheme  established  either (as set out above)  less the current  value
of the pension is Mr Ts loss
Once the overall loss has been  established it should  pay to Mr T a third of this in line with my
findings in respect  of its role and that of the other  parties involved.
In addition to the financial  loss that Mr T has suffered, I think that this situation has caused
him significant distress  and inconvenience. In recognition of this Intelligent Money should
pay to Mr T the sum of £200.
How should  this compensation be paid?
The likely value of the pension had the monies  been  sent to the platform  provider as
instructed; less any current value of the pension should ideally be paid into a pension  for
Mr T, if this is possible. Any available tax reliefs  can be applied, so Intelligent Money need
only pay an amount that is sufficient  to increase the transfer value of the pension  by the total
amount of the loss as established  above.
If payment  cannot be made into a pension, or if doing so would give rise to any protection or
allowance issues, the money should  instead be paid directly  to Mr T. But had it been
possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore, the total
amount should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have
been paid.
I think Mr T is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, so the reduction should equal
the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr T would have been able to take a tax-free  lump
sum, the reduction  should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Ref: DRN11066124my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I direct  Intelligent Money Ltd to compensate Mr T as set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2021.
Nicola Curnow 
ombudsman
PROVISIONAL FINDINGS
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything  wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
Ref: DRN11066125and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
It is not in dispute that Intelligent  Money failed  to transfer some of Mr Ts pension to the
chosen investment platform and the funds remained in its suspension account  for around
seven years. In turn, the primary issue I need to determine  is what Intelligent  Money needs
to do to put things right.
I understand that this will come as a disappointment,  but I am minded to agree with
Intelligent Money and our investigator that the roles  of the other parties  involved need to be
taken into account.
I would expect  an adviser to ensure that the advice  is implemented, this includes checking
that the funds are invested  as instructed, even where  ongoing advice  is not being  given.
Equally, I think it would  be reasonable to expect the receiving platform to chase  funds it was
expecting  and, the information I have been indicates this was normal  practice between it
and Intelligent  Money. If either the adviser or the receiving platform had chased the transfer
of the funds,  I think the error would  have  been  identified  and the funds transferred. So, I
think it is fair that Intelligent Money  pay only a portion of the loss established.
I have not been provided with evidence as to how the loss Mr T is claiming was calculated  or
on what the £5,000 offered by Intelligent  Money was based. I think Intelligent  Money should
establish what  Mr Ts pension would now be worth if the monies had been transferred in a
timely manner  and invested as instructed and then pay to him a third of the established loss.
I have set out how it should  go about this below.
Ref: DRN1106612