K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the customer  service he experienced  from Bank of Scotland plc t/a 
Halifax in respect of using  his Halifax  Mastercard  via Google Pay. He doesnt feel that 
Halifax understand their fraud prevention process.
background
Mr W raised a complaint with Halifax. Halifax didnt  uphold the complaint. However they did 
compensate Mr W £100 for the service issues hed experienced and £48 for the call costs 
hed incurred. As Mr W remained  unhappy with the situation, he referred the complaint to our 
service. 
An adjudicator has already looked at this matter.  Overall she felt the outcome reached by 
Halifax was fair in all the circumstances. In light of this view, Mr W has asked that the case  
be passed to an ombudsman for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to all the calls and advice that Mr W was given. I accept that he was advised 
different things at different times which must  have  been frustrating for him. He seems to 
have been told there  was a mobile mismatch.  He was also advised  about limits per 
transaction and how this can vary between different merchants. 
Mr W was transferred between different teams. Ive no doubt that being passed around like 
this, with no clear explanation  of why transactions had been declined,  must have been 
incredibly upsetting. Indeed I note Mr W was told to de-register his card on all devices and 
then re-add it to his wallet. But this still didnt solve the problem.
As I understand eventually Mr W was told the issues were as a result of a fraud prevention  
system. This can often  be when there  are suspicions surrounding various transactions  or if 
theres a higher risk of fraud at a particular  merchant.  Halifax has confirmed  that there wasnt 
an actual fraud block on Mr Ws account.
Just like the adjudicator  I think  Mr W undoubtedly couldve received better customer service.  
But I also think the £148 sum already  paid to Mr W recognises this point. Upon considering  
everything Im unable to uphold this complaint. I think that, despite the issues Mr W 
experienced, Halifax has overall  acted fairly  and reasonably in this matter. 
Ref: DRN14760612my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1476061