K820x#14complaint
Ms M complained that Nationwide Building  Society  had added  insurance onto her mortgage 
account. She believed that this was mis-management by Nationwide, and that it meant  shed 
been charged extra interest  going back decades. 
background
Ms M took out a Nationwide mortgage in September 1996. Property insurance premiums  
were debited until 2005.
Ms M complained to Nationwide about  her mortgage a number of times  over the years.  She 
wasnt satisfied with Nationwides responses, and in October 2018, she complained to this 
service. Her complaint was that her interest-only  mortgage balance had increased over the 
years. She said she believed this was a result  of insurance having been added  to her 
mortgage.
The investigator first looked at whether  or not we could consider  Ms Ms complaint. This 
service is bound by rules,  set by the Financial Conduct Authority, about what we can and 
cant consider. One of these rules is about timescales. We cant  look at a complaint if it was 
made more  than six years after the event complained of, or if later,  three years from when 
the customer was aware, or ought reasonably to have  been aware, that they had cause for 
complaint. Customers also have to complain  to us within  six months of the financial 
organisation sending its final response to the customer.
Ms Ms complaint is about property insurance premiums which were charged  between 1996 
and 2005. But after some correspondence, Nationwide said it agreed that this service could 
consider Ms Ms complaint.
The investigator looked at Ms Ms complaint. While  the complaint was with the investigator, 
Ms M also raised  a new issue,  saying that shed been told she had to have the insurance 
with the mortgage. The investigator saw that this hadnt been sold to Ms M by Nationwide 
but by the broker.  
So the issue  the investigator considered was Ms Ms belief that the balance on her interest-
only mortgage had increased every  year because Nationwide  had added  insurance to her 
mortgage. 
The investigator didnt  uphold Ms Ms complaint.  She said the balance hadnt increased  over 
time, but it had fluctuated. And this was because the mortgage was on a system of annual 
review, and not because of the insurance  premiums.
Ms M wasnt satisfied and asked for an ombudsman review. She said she was still 
convinced the end of year balance was derived from adding the insurance onto the balance, 
then charging interest on that. She said she hadnt known exactly what  an annual  review 
basis was, but an expert  had told her that being  on an annual review wouldnt have made 
much difference to Ms Ms balance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN13035912The evidence shows that theres been a lot of contact between  Ms M and Nationwide over 
the years. So Id clarify that this decision is about the single  issue which  Ms M brought  on 
her complaint form to this service. Thats her belief  that her mortgage  balance grew year on 
year because of insurance  which Nationwide charged. 
This decision isnt about other points on the various  letters between Ms M and Nationwide. 
Nor is it about Ms Ms more recent complaint to us that Nationwide  told her she had to have 
the insurance. Thats because, as Ive set out above, it was the broker, not Nationwide, who 
sold the insurance in 1996. So this service cant consider this new point as part of this 
complaint, because it wasnt a complaint against  Nationwide. And in any case,  Ms M would 
have had to raise it with the broker first before being able to bring it to us as a complaint 
against the broker, who may or may not have  records  after such a long time. 
Ive looked at Ms Ms mortgage statements. An annual insurance premium was debited to 
Ms Ms account every year until 2005.  And the balance isnt the same  at the end of the year,  
as it is at the start of the year. I can understand  why Ms M might expect that it would be, 
because her mortgage was interest-only   in other words, she wasnt  paying  back any of the 
capital she owed, only the interest  on that capital. But its not as straightforward as that, and 
it doesnt mean that the property insurance  was what  caused  the differences.  
The statements  show  that although  Ms Ms mortgage balance was sometimes  higher at the 
end of the year than it had been  at the start, there  were also years when it was lower. And 
the amount of difference  varies  but the difference  is never consistently the same as the 
insurance premium for that year. For example in 1997, the balance  was £43,842.30  at the 
start of the year and £44,081.65 at the end of the year. Thats  a difference  of £239.59. But 
the insurance premium  that year was £147.39.  So it cant  be that the insurance premium 
was the reason.
The actual reason for the differences is that Ms Ms mortgage  was calculated on an annual  
rest basis. That means that interest  is calculated and charged on the balance  at the end of 
the previous year. The borrower  makes monthly  payments, but the new balance isnt re-
calculated until the end of the year.
This service doesnt provide an accounting service. So I havent checked  every figure on 
every one of Ms Ms mortgage statements going back  to 1996, and to do so in full would 
require computer calculations. But I consider  that the annual  rest system, together with 
interest rate changes  during the year, is the reason for a balance  which  went up and down.
A couple of examples might  help explain this. 
-Using the 1997 statement again, Ms M paid £194.56 in January, then £212.87 every  
month from February to September,  and £212.84 from October to December. The 
statement also shows the interest  rates for the year. The rate that year rose steadily 
from 5.49% in January, to 5.85% from 1 June,  to 6.35%  from 1 August, to 6.6% from 
1 September.  Ms Ms payments hadnt risen  in line with those increases. Its those 
rate changes and the annual rest system  which meant that Ms Ms balance had 
increased by £239.59  over the course of the year. It wasnt  the £147.39 annual 
insurance figure.
-Similarly, in years  where rates dropped steadily over the course  of the year  for 
example in 2001  the total payments Ms M had made were slightly  more than the 
Ref: DRN13035913total interest due, even  though shed  gradually paid less each month. This meant that 
the balance at the end of 2001 was £86.29  less than it had been at the start of the 
year. This again is due to the annual rest system,  not the insurance premium,  which  
that year had been £136.63.
So I find that the reason Ms Ms mortgage  balance was sometimes  higher at the end of the 
year, and sometimes lower, than it had been  at the start of the year,  wasnt to do with her 
insurance premium. It was because of the way interest was calculated on her mortgage 
under the annual rest system.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1303591