K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about  the handling of a subsidence claim made  on her home 
insurance policy. They are unhappy  about  the service they received,  and the timescales 
involved. The policy is provided by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA). 
background
In November 2012 Mr and Mrs S contacted RSA because theyd noticed cracking in various 
places in their home. RSA appointed  a firm of loss adjusters to assess  the damage. It was 
determined the property was suffering from subsidence and it was thought  this had been  
caused by drains  leaking  on the gable wall side of the house. Internally the damage affected 
the first-floor  bathroom, front and rear bedrooms,  the landing and the ground-floor hall and 
kitchen. 
A drainage survey was done. This determined there was damage  to most of the drainage 
runs serving the property.  Drainage repairs were proposed  and authorised by RSA.  In 
addition, Mr and Mrs S was also told the rainwater downpipe shouldnt be discharging 
directly onto the ground beside the house  and it was suggested  she had this changed. The 
drainage works RSA was responsible for were  completed by the beginning of 2013.
Preparation works were  done for the repairs  schedules  of work were  drawn-up and 
asbestos testing  done. There was considerable discussion  about  the scope of the repairs  
and what should  be included. Mr and Mrs S also told RSA new damage had appeared 
shortly after the drain repairs were  done.  A schedule of works  was settled on and the repairs  
were completed at the end of 2013. However, the property  started cracking almost as soon  
as the repairs  were done, which Mr and Mrs S reported to the loss adjuster.  
The loss adjusters went out to inspect at the very beginning of 2014. It told Mr and Mrs S 
that it was probably  just shrinkage or thermal movement.  They  were advised  to contact it 
again if the damage got worse. Mr and Mrs S said they were told to monitor  it for a year, but 
that timescale isnt reflected in the letter the loss adjusters sent them.
Mr and Mrs S say they contacted the loss adjuster in March 2015 and a year of level 
monitoring was done, but RSAs file doesnt  reflect that. It shows Mr and Mrs S first contact 
after 2014  to be in January 2016,  at which time RSA arranged for level monitoring to be 
done to see if the property  was moving. 
The level monitoring  was done for a significant  period of time, during which the property  
moved, but inconsistently  and at various points  it was thought it was stable. By mid-2017 
RSA decided to undertake  some ground  investigations and it did another drainage survey. 
Further damage to the drainage was identified and the ground was determined  to be silty, 
sandy clay. 
Monitoring of the property continued and in the summer of 2018  RSA decided that despite 
the drainage repairs  done  over the years,  the property was still moving.  Given the type of 
stabilisation work RSA subsequently did, it would appear it was decided  the problem was 
with the nature of the ground beneath  the foundations. Stabilisation works were completed  in 
November 2018.
As Mr and Mrs S had experience of how disruptive the above ground repairs would be, they 
asked that they werent started until the beginning of 2019.   Repairs  started in February 
Ref: DRN171828422019 and Mr and Mrs S said they effectively lost the use of the lounge  because it was used  
for storage. Problems arose quickly thereafter  with communication and the scope and nature 
of repairs. By March 2019 Mr and Mrs S complained to RSA. 
RSA issued its response in April 2019.  It said that subsidence claims take time to resolve  as 
monitoring is often needed.  However,  it accepted there were some areas of the claim where 
Mr and Mrs S should have been  kept better informed and updated. It apologised for the 
inconvenience it had caused them and offered £200 compensation. In relation to a couple  of 
issues where it was disputed whether repairs, or further repairs,  fell within the claim, it was 
confirmed a surveyor would attend to complete another assessment. Mr and Mrs S accepted 
the offer of a further assessment to move the matter of the disputed repairs  forward.
Following that assessment, RSA issued another complaint  response  in July 2019.  It agreed 
there was only one claim and one excess to be paid as it hadnt done enough to stabilise  the 
property when the claim was first considered.  However, it indicated that it didnt think this 
had delayed the progress of the claim. It then apologised for having made a mistake in 
telling Mr and Mrs S damage in the en-suite would be included in the claim  its member of 
staff had mixed up the en-suite and main  bathrooms  when communicating with them. It also 
acknowledged there had been a delay in Mr and Mrs S being given the most recent 
schedule of works. It offered a further £200  for these errors.   There  was also discussion 
about a disturbance allowance  because of the limited  use of the lounge  and having  one of 
the two bathrooms in the house out of use for a prolonged period. An offer was made in 
relation to the disturbance  Mr and Mrs S had suffered. The offers  were accepted. 
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy with the progress  of their claim and RSAs response to 
their complaint and referred it to us to consider in June 2019.   During  our investigation RSA 
confirmed that it was only willing to allow us to consider the complaint to the point of its April 
2019 final response letter. It was not willing to allow us to consider the concerns Mr and Mrs 
S had about  the repairs and their progress  since that date. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He concluded there were 
significant service failings and the claim took too long to progress, especially after 
Mr and Mrs S highlighted that the first repairs had failed. He recommended  RSA pay £2,000  
compensation for the poor handling  of the claim and delays of in the region of two years.  
Mr and Mrs S accepted the investigators view, although they commented that they didnt  
think some  of the issues theyd experienced since the stabilisation works had been 
completed had been  addressed. 
RSA didnt accept  the investigators conclusions. Its loss adjuster said it didnt consider there 
were any unreasonable  delays. Whilst it did take some time for the stabilisation works  to be 
undertaken, this was because of the amount  of subsidence events in 2018. It said that up 
until February 2019 the perceived delays had been  unavoidable, but it agreed that since  
then matters could  have been  dealt  with more quickly.  RSA said it would make  further  
comment on the amount  of compensation recommended, but despite being prompted to 
provide any additional comment it wanted to make, nothing further was received. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me to consider. 
my findings
Ref: DRN17182843I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Before I do so, I would  again  confirm to 
Mr and Mrs S that I will only be considering the circumstances up to when RSA issued its 
response to their complaint in 2019.
RSA says it doesnt think there were any unreasonable  delays.  I have looked  at the claim 
from 2012 to the end of 2013 and whilst I think the claim could possibly have been dealt with 
a little more quickly,  I dont think RSA caused  any significant delays in the slightly over a 
year the claim was open. However, Im not persuaded the same can be said of the situation 
later. 
Mr and Mrs S have  said that, in early  2014  when they contacted the loss adjusters about the 
cracking in their kitchen  immediately after the repairs were done,  they were  told to monitor  
the damage over the following year. The letter theyve  provided doesnt mention that 
timescale and it was not until two years later that they contacted  RSA again. I cant  attribute  
these two years as delays  by RSA. However,  when  RSA was made aware  its repairs  had 
failed and, therefore, the property either  had not stopped moving  or had begun  to move 
again, I dont think it provided Mr and Mrs S with the service  it should have.
I say this as, if the claim file had been  reviewed  at that time, there were some  flags  that I 
think should have  been picked up. Mr and Mrs S had reported the repairs had failed, so 
clearly either there was a new issue causing movement or the original  diagnosis  of the 
cause of the movement had been wrong.  The claim file showed Mr and Mrs S reporting new 
damage shortly after the drainage repairs were complete  and then almost immediately after 
the superstructural repairs were done. I think this should have caused RSA to question  
whether it had correctly  diagnosed the cause of the subsidence in 2013.  
RSA has said that subsidence cases,  especially those  involving monitoring, take time and in 
general I would agree  that is the case.  However, that doesnt always  have to be the case 
and monitoring is usually  only part of the investigative process that is done when considering 
a subsidence  claim.  In this case RSA did nothing but monitor  the property until the second 
half of 2017  more than 18 months. On several occasions it told Mr and Mrs S the property 
was stable, yet it doesnt  appear to have been  confident in that conclusion  as it continued 
monitoring the property.  Two and a half years after starting monitoring, RSA eventually 
decided there was progressive movement and it would need to use a form of underpinning to 
stabilise the property. There were clearly  very significant delays during this process,  
especially given the evidence RSA had when it started reconsidering the claim.  
RSA has said the unexpected rise in subsidence  damage in 2018  meant  it had to wait for a 
period before the contractor was able to attend  to do the stabilisation  works. I am aware 
there were problems for insurers obtaining  suitable  advice  and arranging  repairs because  of 
the hot, dry spring  and summer of 2018. I cant attribute the months between RSAs  decision 
to stabilise the property and when  the works were done as a failure by RSA. The repairs 
started after the new year in 2019  as Mr and Mrs S asked and it was only a very short period 
after that they complained. It is clear at that point there were disagreements about the scope 
of the works that should be done as part of the claim, but that isnt unusual  where  such 
extensive repairs are needed. RSA also proposed a reasonable way forward  on that matter.
Overall, I consider there  were significant  delays caused by RSA after Mr and Mrs S reported  
the repairs had failed in 2016  as it took more  than two and a half years  to get to the stage 
where it concluded an engineered solution  was needed to stabilise the property.  Given the 
information it already  had about the problem, I would have expected RSA to be far more 
Ref: DRN17182844proactive in moving the claim forward and had it been, I think it would have taken 
significantly less time to stabilise the property. The poor communication would also not have 
helped Mr and Mrs S, given they were  witnessing their home deteriorating, despite having 
already gone through the inconvenience of the 2013 repairs. 
RSA offered £200  for not keeping Mr and Mrs S informed and updated. The second  £200 
was offered for matters I am not considering in this decision.  I dont, however, consider  £200 
is adequate for the delays and poor communication Mr and Mrs S suffered. I am in 
agreement with our investigator  that the amount should be increased to £2,000. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint 
I order Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to pay Mr and Mrs S the sum of £2,000 
compensation for the delays, upset  and inconvenience they suffered. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject  my 
decision before  13 February 2021.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1718284