K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2007.
The PPI was in Mr Ss name. If hed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, 
sickness or unemployment, it would have paid Mr and Mrs Ss monthly mortgage payments,  
plus an additional benefit of £3 for every £1,000 of the original mortgage balance,  for up to 
12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application form. It includes a section on 
insurance. Payment Protection Plus (a form of PPI) is included  in the section. It 
explains that the policy covers the monthly mortgage repayment in the event of accident, 
sickness or redundancy. And it says,  reasonably  clearly and prominently, You  are not 
obliged to take this cover . Ive also noted Mr and Mrs S completed  a separate  
application and direct debit for the PPI. So I think theyd have realised that the PPI was a 
separate product, and not automatically  included in the mortgage. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Lloyds made Mr and Mrs S aware that the PPI 
was optional and that they chose to take it. But I can understand how they may no longer 
remember this, so many years later.
The demands and needs form that the mortgage adviser completed shows  that Lloyds 
recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. It says that this was because  they wanted  to be 
able to meet their mortgage  payments in the event  of Mr S becoming unemployed and/or 
disabled through  accident  or sickness. Because Lloyds recommended  the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs S, it had a responsibility to check that it was suitable for them. But it doesnt  
look as if it was unsuitable, based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time.
Ive borne in mind  that Mr and Mrs S have told us that Mr S would have been  entitled to 
six months full pay, followed by six months half pay if hed been off sick. But if hed 
made a successful claim for accident,  sickness or unemployment on the PPI, it would 
have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. Thats longer than Mr S would  
have been entitled  to full sick pay for. Whats  more, it would  have paid out in addition  to 
any payments Mr S received from his employer.  So Mr and Mrs S could have used those 
to meet  other day-to-day expenses.
Ref: DRN18876052I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs S had told us that relatives could have helped them with 
their monthly mortgage payments  if need  be. But circumstances can change, and I cant 
be sure that Mr and Mrs Ss relatives  would have been in a position  to help if the need 
had arisen.
Taking everything into account,  I think the policy could have been  useful to 
Mr and Mrs S. Mr S was the main wage earner in the household.  The mortgage was a 
major, long-term financial commitment, secured  on their home.  So I think  the policy 
would have provided them with valuable peace  of mind that their monthly mortgage 
payments would continue to be met if Mr S was off sick, or if he lost his job.
The cost of the policy was shown clearly  on the mortgage application.  So I think  
Mr and Mrs S would have understood how much theyd need to pay for it. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover (for example, 
unusual employment  arrangements  or existing medical conditions). But based on what  
theyve told us about their circumstances at the time, its unlikely  Mr and Mrs S would 
have been affected  by any of these.
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Ss comments, including what theyve said about 
Lloyds having  paid out on a claim for mis-sold PPI on their previous mortgage.  They  say 
their circumstances were unchanged, so they cant see why their complaint shouldnt be 
upheld, given that the other one was. 
I cant comment on the other complaint Mr and Mrs S refer to. But we consider each case  
individually, and Im sorry to disappoint  Mr and Mrs S, but I dont think  that the PPI was mis-
sold in this case, for the reasons Ive set out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1887605