K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr B complains about  the information  given  by Paragon Bank Plc after it was 
notified of his death. Mrs B says that Paragon didnt tell her about the Additional  Permitted  
Subscription (APS) she qualified for as the spouse of the late Mr B. Mrs B also complains  
that Paragon has unnecessarily  asked  for a copy of her marriage certificate  before it will 
send information  to the new ISA manager.  
background
Mr B had an ISA with Paragon and in February  2018  Mrs B told them  that hed passed away. 
Mrs B sent a copy of the death certificate  which was received by Paragon a short  time later. 
Paragon contacted Mrs B and asked for some  additional information in order  to release  the 
ISA funds, including the Grant of Probate.  The Grant of Probate was received by Paragon  in 
June 2018. 
Mrs B complained a short time later as she felt Paragon  shouldve  told her about the APS 
arrangements. Paragon responded on 6 September 2018 but didnt agree itd made  an error. 
Paragon said it didnt  operate  ISAs  that accept  APS and that its not a financial  advisor  so 
wasnt able to provide  advice.  Paragon  said Mrs B could apply to a different ISA manager  
that accepts APS. 
Mrs B went  on to instruct another ISA manager. The new ISA manager  contacted Paragon  
and asked for a statement to confirm the APS allowance. But before itll release  that 
information Paragon  wants Mrs B to provide a marriage certificate  which shes  unwilling to 
do. 
Mrs B referred the complaint to this service in her role as executor of the estate of Mr B. An 
investigator looked at whatd  happened but thought Paragon had dealt with the complaint 
fairly as it doesnt accept  APS.  In addition, the investigator thought Paragons request to see 
Mrs Bs marriage certificate was reasonable because of the rules about  how APS works. 
Mrs B didnt agree so the complaints been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how frustrating Mrs B has found the situation given the circumstances  under  
which shes brought the complaint on behalf of her late husbands estate. But Ive looked 
carefully at what Paragon has said and done and I havent found  any evidence  that its made 
a mistake. 
Paragons explained  that its ISAs dont  accept APS. Ive looked at the rules  for ISA 
managers and, like the investigator, I havent  found anything that says Paragon  has to 
accept APS.  As its taken the decision  not to offer that service I wouldnt expect Paragon to 
provide information  about it when discussing an ISA that forms part of a deceased 
customers estate. Paragons confirmed  that Mrs B can arrange for another  business that 
accepts APS to take over the ISA, which is whats happened.  
Ref: DRN12143882I appreciate that Mrs B feels Paragon shouldve provided more information to her but its not 
allowed to give financial advice so Id only expect it to provide details of services it offers. I 
havent found Paragon made an error  by not giving Mrs B information about  APS.  
Mrs B is concerned that Paragons asked for a copy of her marriage certificate before it will 
give information about the late Mr Bs subscriptions  to the new ISA manager.  But the rules 
on APS are strict and say it is for the ISA manager to be satisfied that the person making the 
request is the deceased ISA holders surviving  spouse. Given the government guidance, I 
think Paragons request to see the marriage  certificate is reasonable. Mrs B says that the 
Death Certificate and Grant of Probate  shouldve been sufficient for this purpose but I dont 
think Paragons request is unfair or unreasonably inconvenient to meet.  Mrs B says shes  
concerned about  the security of her information but I havent seen anything to indicate that 
documents or information she gives to Paragon  wont be dealt with securely and privately.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs B but for the reasons given above  I wouldnt expect Paragon to 
provide details of APS arrangements as its not a facility it offers. And whilst I note Mrs Bs 
concerns, Im satisfied  the rules allow Paragon to satisfy  itself that the person making the 
APS request  is the deceased ISA holders spouse  and asking  for a copy of the marriage  
certificate is reasonable in the circumstances.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B on behalf of the estate of Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1214388