K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  Limited wont  pay their full 
claim under their home  insurance  for subsidence  damage to their porch and a retaining 
boundary wall.
background
The claim goes back to 2013 when Mr and Mrs E reported damage to their boundary wall 
and their porch. Lloyds  carried  out a number of investigations which werent conclusive 
about the cause of the damage. It offered however to pay for the damage  to the porch,  
accepting that as subsidence  damage. It wouldnt  pay for the wall, as under the policy  the 
damage to it wouldnt  be covered  unless the main  building  of the home  was damaged  at the 
same time and by the same cause.  It didnt accept that the damage to the wall was the same 
cause as that to the porch.  It proposed either to carry  out the repairs  to the porch  after 
Mr and Mrs E had arranged to repair the wall, or to pay a cash settlement for the porch 
repairs.
Mr and Mrs E referred a complaint to this service in 2016. Our then adjudicator proposed  
that both parties  agree  to the appointment of an independent expert engineer  to review the 
cause of the damage to the wall. Both parties to agree to be bound  by the conclusions. She 
further proposed  that Lloyds pay Mr and Mrs E £200 compensation. Those proposals were 
agreed by both parties and Lloyds paid the compensation.
The independent engineers report was dated March 2017.  His conclusions were not wholly 
conclusive, but he did think the wall was suffering from subsidence due to a number of 
causes including  softening of the soil at the end nearest the porch. After reviewing the report  
and carrying out a site visit, Lloyds wrote  to Mr and Mrs E in November 2017 to reiterate that 
it wouldnt be paying for the repairs  to the wall.
Mr and Mrs E referred the matter  back to this service. They  also pointed out that despite the 
drains being surveyed in 2013  and in 2017 and a temporary repair being carried  out, they 
were still leaking and Lloyds had failed to agree any repairs,  except to suggest that only the 
first three metres  of drain run could  be repaired.
Lloyds reviewed the matter and said that it was evident from reports  that there are a number 
of factors causing  damage to the wall. As a way of honouring the view of being bound  by 
that decision following  the last complaint and as a way to bring this complaint  and claim to a 
closure, it was happy to consider a contribution  towards  the cost of the wall. 
For this cost to be calculated, in the professional opinion of its engineer if accepts that part of 
the wall was damaged by the leaking gully, this leak would not have damaged anything 
further than three metres  of the wall (proximity from the porch).  Therefore, it will calculate the 
cost of the repair, or if this is not possible due to the number of other  contributing factors, will 
base the cost on no more than three metres of the wall.
It was also prepared to pay £50 compensation based on the fact that it could have  advised  
Mr and Mrs E of this when it issued its final response letter.  So far as the drain run was 
concerned this related to a leaking gully which was replaced  in 2017 after the engineer 
reported.
Ref: DRN14111842Our investigators view was that Lloyds response was reasonable and he didnt  propose  that 
it do anything further. 
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that as well as the subsidence repairs  and the 
contribution to the repair of the wall, Lloyds should  pay £200 compensation, and pay for the 
drains to be repaired.
Lloyds pointed out that according to the engineers report the drain gully had been replaced  
by a uPVC gully and connection. It doesnt  know why Mr and Mrs E believed this to be 
temporary. Its also not sure who did the work but the report doesnt say further replacement 
or repairs were needed or were temporary.
Mr and Mrs E do feel that although Lloyds has agreed  to cover the three metres of the wall 
damaged by the porch gully it should accept the fact that the damage to the drain is 
progressive, and leaking water from the drains has consequently affected the foundation to 
the wall. The extensive damage has got worse.
They feel that the damage all comes  from the subsidence to the porch affecting the drains  
and that Lloyds should cover the cost of repairing the porch and complete replacement of 
the drain run and the whole length  of the retaining wall.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also considered a recorded 
message from Mr E about  the case.
These were  my provisional findings:
scope of this complaint
Mr and Mrs Es complaint has been considered  by this service before, and the outcome 
accepted by them. I cant look at the issues our then adjudicator looked at, except to take 
note of them in the background to this case.  So I cant reconsider the compensation agreed 
by both parties then.  I can however look at the result of the expert report and what Lloyds did 
about it, and the drainage which hasnt officially been considered  before. I appreciate that 
both parties agreed  to be bound by the report but the engineers conclusions are open to 
interpretation and arent clear  cut. Since  these  issues havent been  there  subject of an 
ombudsmans decision I think I can look at them further.
engineers conclusions
The independent engineer was instructed  to review the cause of damage to the wall. His 
conclusion was that the wall had suffered differential  settlement or subsidence and the 
cause of the movement was complex. He said there were three major causes of the outward 
and downward  movement:
movement caused by movement of the porch exacerbated by softening  of the clay at the 
base of the wall from the escape of water from a leaking gully.
tree root growth  from trees in the adjoining property.
differential movement of the foundations  and (possibly) calculations showing the wall is 
overstressed and could have collapsed.
Ref: DRN14111843If those conclusions require a professional eye to decide what they mean  there can be no 
doubting the engineers  comment  The failure  off the porch has resulted in outward  
movement if the wall. So I think, bearing in mind that Lloyds  had agreed  to be bound  to by 
the engineers  conclusions,  it shouldnt  have just dismissed that part of the engineers  report, 
clearly linking the causes of subsidence to the porch  and the wall. 
Under the subsidence or landslip cover in the policy, damage  to garden walls isnt covered 
unless the main  building of your home is damaged at the same  time and by the same 
cause. and over the years Mr and Mrs E have  been  struggling  to show  that their garden wall 
was damaged at the same time by the same cause. I think consideration of the engineers 
report does show in part that the wall was damaged by the same cause  escape of water  
as the porch  which is clearly part of the main  building. But the report does highlight other 
causes unrelated to the damage to the porch notably differential movement of foundations  
and likely tree root damage.  The report also refers to the construction  of the wall but says 
many structures defy simple static calculations. 
The result of that is I think that Lloyds offer to contribute  to the repair  to the wall is 
reasonable. This is on the basis that the subsidence of the porch was only partly the reason 
for the subsidence  of the wall. Its offer would be to pay for the first three metres  which  I think 
is reasonable.
Lloyds has offered either to repair the porch after Mr and Mrs E repair the wall, or to pay 
them a cash  settlement for the porch and a contribution to the wall. It takes the view that the 
porch cant be repaired without the wall being repaired first. Its up to Mr and Mrs E if they 
want to accept the offer. If they want  Lloyds to carry out the repair to the porch  it will have to 
assess how much it will contribute  to the wall. A pragmatic solution would be for Lloyds to 
repair both wall and porch and seek a contribution from Mr and Mrs E. But I cant require it to 
repair something that isnt its lability.
drainage
This appears  to have  been given very scant  attention. There were drainage reports  in 2013 
and in June 2017. Both identified that repairs  were  needed. Lloyds' response in its final 
response letter of July 2018 was:  From the drain inspections  it was noticed the combined 
rainwater and kitchen  waste gully was a clay gully discharging to clay pipes. When the 
ground was excavated this was found to be leaking in to the surrounding  ground  and on 
completion of the restoration it was replaced with an uPVC gully and connection.
So its reason for not carrying out the drain  repairs  was that this was already done. 
Mr and Mrs E say that uPVC replacement was only temporary. And the information  about 
this comes from the independent engineer who I dont think  was asked to carry out any 
repairs. Also after this the June 2017  report clearly identified the need for repairs to the 
drains.
In most subsidence cases, where the drains are identified as causing  the problem, the usual 
course to take would be for the insurer to repair the drain either as accidental damage  or as 
a preventive repair to ensure the subsidence doesnt  continue. This is what  I think  Lloyds 
should do in this case. I think Mr and Mrs E have said they were  told Lloyds would only 
repair part of the drains but if they were  I dont think thats reasonable. In order  to carry out 
an effective repair of the subsidence damage to the porch and part of the wall, I think the 
drains should be repaired as identified in the drainage report of June 2017.
Ref: DRN14111844compensation
I know Mr and Mrs E would like me to consider compensation  for how the whole matter has 
affected them since 2013. I understand this, but as Ive set out above  compensation up until 
the time of agreeing the independent  report has already  been  agreed and accepted.  And the 
issues in this case do surround an expert  view of the matter which has in part been  justified 
from Lloyds point of view.
But I do think the recent issues with the report should be taken into consideration. I think  that 
anyone reading  the report should not have been able to dismiss out of hand  the engineers 
report and claim it justified  their view that the causes of damage  werent  related. It took until 
November 2017  to review the report,  but it looks like this was only available from May 2017 
after which Lloyds had to arrange a site visit. Nevertheless it took a long time to reach the 
first conclusion. Lloyds didnt concede liability for part of the wall until July 2018. And though  
I appreciate that both parties had agreed to be bound by the report, nevertheless that was 
another eight  months of delay. Lloyds  has offered  £50, but I dont think thats  reasonable. I 
propose to require it to pay £200  compensation..
overall
I think Lloyds has rightly  conceded partial  liability  for the wall. It should  contact  Mr and Mrs E 
to reach  a decision as to how the repairs go ahead. Additionally Lloyds should arrange for 
the drains to be repaired  and to pay Mr and Mrs E £200 compensation. This is if they accept  
any final decision I make  and if that decision remains the same  as this provisional  decision.
In respect of the drains  I have to say that I am as much in the dark as Lloyds about who 
carried out the repair. As I pointed out the engineer said the leaking gully and connection 
had been replaced, but he didnt say who did it nor whether the repair was still effective. But 
I also bear in mind that the engineer wasnt instructed to comment on liability for the drain 
repairs. 
The drain report of June 2017,  after the engineers report identifies the repairs  that I think  
need to be carried  out, so it doesnt really matter  who carried out the previous part repair.. If 
the uPVC gully and connection are still watertight then that wont  need further repair.  If 
theyre leaking, as Mr and Mrs E say, that part will clearly need  further  repair.  Im not inclined  
to change my view on that.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Es view about  the likely cause of the subsidence to the wall, and it 
is unfortunate that the engineers conclusions werent very clear.  But analysis of those 
conclusions doesnt  unfortunately  support Mr and Mrs Es view that the whole of the wall was 
affected by the subsidence to the porch.  So I wont change my finding in that respect.
My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
Ref: DRN14111845arrange for the repair to the subsidence  damage to the porch after any damage to the 
wall has been repaired or (at Mr and Mrs Es option) to pay Mr and Mrs E a cash  
settlement for the damage less any excess on the policy
to pay a contribution  to the repairs to the wall to be assessed by its engineer if not 
agreed.
arrange to repair the drainage in accordance with the June  2017  report.
pay Mr and Mrs E £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1411184