K820x#14complaint
Miss G says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Miss G took out to cover  the payments  on a store card 
in 1997. Its been agreed  that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the 
complaint. So, for clarity, Ill refer to FICL  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Miss G says the PPI was sold 
over the phone, but she hasnt given  us much more detail about what  was said.  FICL  says 
the PPI was sold around eighteen months  after Miss G opened her store card account. So I 
dont think Miss G can reasonably have  thought  she had to have  the PPI in order  to get the 
store card. But FICL  hasnt been able to send us any evidence from the sale showing Miss G 
chose to take the PPI.
Due to the amount of time that has passed  since  the sale,  I dont think  this lack of 
information is unreasonable. But what it does  mean  is that I dont think  theres  enough 
evidence for me to say that FICL  added the PPI without Miss Gs knowledge.  So I think its 
likely FICL made it clear to Miss G that he had a choice about the PPI, and that Miss G 
chose to take it.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Miss G any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Miss G. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve 
been entitled to full sick pay. So it looks like it couldve been  useful  to her. And so I dont 
think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Miss G off taking it out.
Ref: DRN13738912my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1373891