K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain, through a claims management company (CMC), that the With 
Profits Bond they were advised to invest in by Phoenix Life Limited was unsuitable because 
it meant too much of their capital was exposed to risk.
Background
Mr and Mrs P saw an adviser from Royal Sun Alliance (now Phoenix)  in 1999 when they 
were advised to invest £30,000  into the bond based on having a risk appetite of low/medium. 
They took monthly withdrawals over the lifetime of the plan and surrendered it in 2007 
having made a small return. They complained to Phoenix in 2018 but it didnt uphold the 
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint not upholding it. In short  I made the 
following findings:
The documents I had seen  showed Mr and Mrs P were  prepared to take some  risk 
with the capital they invested in the Bond.
They already  had other investments  with risk so I think  they understood the risks of 
the Bond.
There was nothing  to indicate their objective  to supplement  their income with some 
protection for the capital against  inflation was wrongly identified.
On the face of it the Bond was a suitable recommendation.
They could afford to take a risk with the money they had invested. 
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Phoenix said it had nothing further to add. 
The CMC said the only comment  it had was that whilst the investment itself may have 
matched Mr and Mrs Ps objective  it still believed too much of their money was invested. It 
said investing a larger amount to get a bigger  income wasnt sensible or sustainable and 
investing only £15,000 would have been  more suitable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only issue the CMC  has raised  is about  the amount  invested.  I acknowledge that Mr and 
Mrs P were  retired  with a limited income  and also had other  risk based  investments. But Im 
not persuaded they invested  too much in the Bond.
The Bond allowed them to supplement their income with some prospect of capital growth so 
there was potential to limit the reduction  in capital because of the withdrawals they made. 
They indicated they wanted the maximum amount  of income from the Bond of 7.5%.
I have no reason to think that Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have wanted  to increase their normal 
income by the same  amount  if they had only invested £15,000.  So if they had limited the 
investment to this amount it wouldve meant they wouldve  also supplemented their income 
partly from their savings. And this would almost certainly have  eroded  those savings.  
Ref: DRN10009872The Bond at least gave them the possibility of some capital growth so the impact of the 
withdrawals might not be so great and the effect of inflation might  not reduce the real value 
of the money  invested so badly. 
Im also mindful that they still had £13,000 in savings and had no outstanding liabilities, just 
day to day living expenses. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10009873COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain, through  a claims management company (CMC), that the With Profits  Bond 
they were advised to invest in by Phoenix Life Limited  was unsuitable because it meant too much of 
their capital was exposed to risk.
background
Mr and Mrs P saw an adviser from Royal Sun Alliance (now Phoenix) in 1999 when they were 
advised to invest £30,000 into the bond based  on having a risk appetite of low/medium. They took 
monthly withdrawals over the lifetime of the plan and surrendered it in 2007 having made  a small 
return. They  complained to Phoenix  in 2018 but it didnt uphold the complaint.
It said the Bond was affordable, was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ps attitude to risk and met their savings  
and investment needs. It said they had sufficient  cash  reserve after the investment with over £13,000  
remaining on deposit.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint and thought it should  be upheld.  He said that as Mr 
and Mrs P were both retired and dependent on their pension income,  which left them only with a small 
amount after outgoings, and already had £12,000 of their capital exposed  to investment risk, they 
werent in a position  to place a further £30,000 at risk. He said they shouldve been recommended a 
product that allowed them to take an income  without risk.
Phoenix didnt agree  with the adjudicator. In short it made the following points:
The Bond generated an additional income to supplement Mr and Mrs Ps existing retirement 
provision, as they wanted.
Although they only had a disposable  income  of £44 each  month they did also have £13,445 
on deposit which  they could access if needed.
Alternative savings products were discussed but these had a higher risk.
The only risk free savings vehicles  that wouldve available were bank or building society  
accounts. These wouldve offered very little in the way of growth so wouldnt have met Mr and 
Mrs Ps goal of an income with some protection against inflation.
As Phoenix didnt agree  with the adjudicator the matter has been referred to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the fact find completed by the adviser  which identified their general investment 
objective as:
To provide an income and have some  protection for your capital  against inflation.  
Their attitude  to risk was identified as low to medium risk. This was two out of five on the ranking of 
risk categories, with one being  risk averse.
Low/medium risk was described  as:
You are prepared  to take a low to medium risk within your financial affairs. However,  you are 
prepared for some of your investments to be in Funds where there may be a limited degree of 
fluctuation in value in return for prospects of modest long term growth  though this is not guaranteed.
Ref: DRN10009874The recommendation  within the Personal Financial Summary (suitability report) sent to Mr and Mrs P 
after the meeting with the adviser stated:
The With Profits Bond was recommended because you are interested  in making a medium to long 
term investment with the ability to take income  or capital  withdrawals. You are also concerned to 
avoid undue investment risk and the volatility associated with direct equity investment. This 
investment is considered to be low to medium  risk for investment purposes.
And;
Other investments considered were  unit trusts  both within and outside ISAs  but these were  
discounted by yourself due to the higher risks involved.
The documents show  that Mr and Mrs Ps were prepared to take some risk with the capital they 
invested in the Bond. The fact they had already other investments with risk, and the reference in the 
suitability report to them  discounting other products because they had a higher risk than the Bond, I 
think indicates  they understood  the risk with the Bond.
I also have no reason to think their objective - to supplement their income with some protection for 
capital against inflation   was wrongly  identified. On the face of it the Bond was a suitable  
recommendation in the circumstances as it met their objective and was in accordance  with their 
attitude to risk.
So what this complaint  comes  down  to is whether they could afford  to take a risk with their money, 
regardless of the risk they were prepared to take.
I acknowledge that they had a limited  income  from pensions as they were both retired and already 
had some of their capital invested  in risk-based products and had no real ability to replace any losses 
they might have from investment in those  products, or the Bond, from their pension income.  
But Im also mindful  they had no outstanding liabilities and had over £13,000 in deposit based 
accounts. In the circumstances Im not persuaded that investing £30,000 into a low/medium risk 
product to provide  them with an additional income  to their pension income was unsuitable.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained  above. 
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1000987