K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). He doesnt  think Aviva  
have compensated  him sufficiently following errors it made regarding his Aviva Platform 
account.
background
Mr Ds father  very sadly passed  away on 30 September 2018.
On 29 October 2018 Aviva wrote to Mr D. In summary it said:
it had incorrectly calculated the amount of income tax due for payments made from 
Mr Ds Pension  Portfolio  between  1 February and 14 March 2018 
its error had resulted  in it deducting  too much tax from Mr Ds payments
to rectify the situation it had made a payment of £766 to Mr Ds bank account in 
respect of the tax Mr D had overpaid
it apologised for any inconvenience or distress caused 
Further to Avivas letter Mr D decided to purchase  a burial plot for himself  (for £575) in the 
cemetery where his father was laid to rest. He intended to use the money he expected  to 
receive from Aviva to cover  the cost of this purchase.
As the £766 Mr D was expecting from Aviva wasnt received, he queried the matter with his 
financial adviser.
Aviva later wrote to Mr D on 7 November 2018. In summary it said:
its 29 October 2018 letter was wrong. It was sorry for the mistake  which  had occurred 
it shouldve confirmed  Mr D had in fact underpaid  tax of £766
as a gesture  of goodwill  it wouldnt  be asking  Mr D to pay the £766
it had paid Her Majesty's  Revenue and Customs (HMRC)  the tax underpayment on 
Mr Ds behalf, so his tax position  was in order and there  was nothing  further he 
needed to do
Further to this Mr D raised  a complaint with the help of his financial adviser. Mr Ds adviser 
said Aviva  had failed  to treat Mr D fairly,  failed  to communicate properly and overall  provided  
poor service at a very difficult time. Mr Ds adviser confirmed Mr D had used a proportion of 
the money hed expected to receive from Aviva to purchase a headstone for his late father.  
On 24 January 2019 Aviva responded to Mr Ds complaint. In summary it said:
it was sorry for any trouble and upset caused and appreciated Mr Ds loyalty to Aviva
it took complaints  of this nature very seriously  and so it had written off Mr Ds tax 
liability to HMRC
although it understood Mr Ds frustration it didnt feel a further payment was required 
in the circumstances
Mr D wasnt happy with Avivas conclusions, so he complained further. 
Aviva issued its final response to Mr Ds complaint on 17 April 2019. In summary Aviva said:
Ref: DRN19031682it apologised for the issue  it caused  when it originally sent Mr D a letter saying it 
would be crediting his account with £766. This was an error on its part and it 
subsequently informed him that he owed HMRC  that amount
it had paid HMRC the £766 tax Mr D owed so Mr D had no liability to it or HMRC for 
this amount
it noted that in addition  to the £766 it had written off and paid to HMRC, Mr D was 
looking for a further payment of £575 which hed paid for his fathers headstone after 
he received its letter  saying it would be making a payment  to his bank account
by writing off the £766 payable to HMRC  it felt it had addressed Mr Ds complaint and 
treated him fairly
Unhappy with Avivas  response,  Mr D referred his complaint  to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said although Aviva had 
made errors, she thought the fact Aviva had written  off the tax Mr D owed HMRC  was 
enough to resolve  the matter. She didnt think Aviva needed to do anything further.
Mr D responded saying he was extremely disappointed with our investigators conclusions.  
He said he wouldnt have  taken the action he did (at a very difficult time) were it not for 
Avivas mistakes. Mr D explained  that hed trusted  Avivas letter and only found out thered 
been errors when  he asked  his financial adviser to find out where the £766 he was expecting  
in his account was. Mr D said he still didnt feel Aviva had taken responsibility for what  
happened. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint.  Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise  that while Ive 
taken note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments made by both parties,  I have 
limited my response to what  I consider  to be the issues  central to this complaint. 
I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Mr D. I can appreciate  it will have been both 
frustrating and disappointing to have experienced the level of service he has from Aviva  
regarding the matter of his tax underpayment. Especially at an already challenging time 
following the very sad passing of his father.
Mr D is understandably  concerned and deeply unhappy about what  happened. Not only did 
Aviva make an initial error calculating income tax due from payments Mr D had received. It 
also compounded  this error by misinforming  Mr D about the mistake it had originally made. 
Ultimately Aviva unfairly raised Mr Ds expectations.
Theres no dispute about the fact Aviva made a number of errors or the fact that Mr D 
accepted what  he was told by Aviva  in good faith.  The issue  I have to decide is whether the 
action Aviva has taken satisfactorily  resolves the matter considering what happened.  
In his submissions to this service Mr D has said hed like Aviva  to pay him the £575  he paid 
to purchase a burial plot for himself  following  receipt  of Avivas erroneous  October  2018  
letter. Hed also like £150 for time spent and upset caused while having to resolve this 
matter.
Ref: DRN19031683Ive carefully considered  what Mr D has said, especially his assertion that were it not for 
Avivas incorrect  letter  he wouldnt have purchased the burial plot he did. 
I dont think Mr D wouldve necessarily spent the money he did on his burial plot were  it not 
for Avivas errors. He was to some  degree  entitled  to rely on what Aviva  told him and so 
understandably he spent some  of the money Aviva led him to believe he would receive. I 
appreciate Mr D would like Aviva  to pay him back the money he unwittingly spent but I dont 
intend to direct Aviva to do this. Mr T has had the benefit of the money he spent so to require 
Aviva to pay this back to him would constitute betterment. It wouldnt be fair for Mr D to 
benefit financially  because of Avivas mistakes. If I told Aviva  to pay Mr D the £575 he paid 
for his burial plot hed be receiving money he wasnt entitled to. 
In a situation like this, we aim to put consumers back in the position they would have  been  
in, had the error not occurred and the correct information been given. So for Mr D, the 
correct information  was that he actually  owed HMRC £766 in income  tax. Aviva chose to pay 
this on Mr Ds behalf. And given the level of disappointment and frustration Aviva caused I 
think this action appropriately reflects the seriousness of what happened. 
I should say however that despite  its errors,  Aviva  wasnt  required to cover Mr Ds tax 
underpayment. As a resolution it couldve chosen to apologise and offer Mr D compensation 
for distress and inconvenience  caused. This couldve been in addition to it also requesting 
that Mr D pay the £766 he owed HMRC.  The tax payment was always  due and payable to 
HMRC irrespective of Avivas errors. And as such Mr D was liable for it. 
Had Aviva  not covered  Mr Ds £766  tax liability I wouldve recommended  that it pay Mr D 
some compensation for what happened  in addition to its apology.  But given what I consider 
to be the impact of Avivas errors,  the compensation I wouldve directed Aviva to pay would 
not have been to same level of Mr Ds tax liability (£766) or the additional compensation Mr 
D is seeking (£725).  As it stands I think Avivas gesture of covering  Mr Ds tax liability  
exceeds the level of compensation I wouldve recommended overall.  Because of this I 
consider the action Aviva has taken more than fairly  recognises the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr D in the circumstances.  
While Im not directing  Aviva to make the award  I understand Mr D would like, in that I dont 
think Scottish Widows  should be bound to take any further action, I should say that I do think  
its entirely reasonable for him to expect Aviva  to provide correct information.  And its 
unfortunate that in this case that didnt happen.  I am genuinely  sorry to hear of the impact  
that this has had on Mr D. 
I dont underestimate  or doubt Mr Ds sincerity or strength of feeling in bringing  his complaint 
to this service and I understand that my decision may come as a disappointment to him, but 
for the reasons Ive explained I wont be asking Aviva to do anything  further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Ref: DRN19031684Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1903168