K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Metro Bank  PLC didnt tell him that it wouldnt lend to him because  he 
receives benefits.
background
Mr J said that he has had a Metro account since 2013. He applied for a credit card with 
Metro. But he said he was turned down because  he receives state benefits. He said that if 
Metro had told him that he wouldnt  be approved because some of his income is from 
benefits, then he wouldnt have gone ahead with the application. And he said that he didnt 
think that Metro should  discriminate against people who receive benefits because of their ill 
health or disability.  
Mr J also said that he wasnt given anything  to read before the application  was done for him. 
He thought that good industry  practice  required him to be given  key feature documentation 
before the application was done. And he wasnt allowed to check a summary of the 
application before  it was submitted.
Mr J also said that his application was turned down, even though  he has a good credit score. 
Hed supplied further information, but been told not to mention that he was planning to return 
to part-time work within a few months. He thought  that was wrong. He also said that a credit 
card from Metro wouldve  saved him money,  compared to his existing  card. 
Mr J said that he wanted to complain about this, but he wasnt given the right information to 
do that either.
Metro wrote to Mr J. It said that he shouldve been given some written  information before his 
application was completed.  Metro would provide feedback to the store  about  that. It said that 
it didnt assess his credit score as part of the application. It couldnt take future employment 
prospects into account when assessing his application, because  that was yet to happen. 
Metro said it had taken  account of how Mr J had run his account when it looked at his 
lending application.  And it said that he shouldve been told how to complain. It was sorry he 
hadnt been. 
Metro said that when it assesses lending, it looks at the income that applicants have, and the 
reliability of its source, as well as how much applicants are spending. In this case, some of 
Mr Js income  was from Enhanced  Employment  Support Allowance (EESA),  and from 
Disability Living Allowance  (DLA).  Metro  said that those benefits  are open to review, and that 
income can fluctuate. So it doesnt  want to lend Mr J money  that he later finds he cant  afford 
to pay back. It didnt think it had made a mistake, but it did say that it would be happy  to 
reconsider if his circumstances changed. 
Mr J wrote a detailed  reply to Metro. He repeated  that he wouldnt have gone ahead  with an 
application if hed known a part of his income would be disregarded. He thought  that he 
should pass any test of affordability, as around 30% of his net income is disposable income.  
Mr J also said that its not right for Metro to say that the benefits he was paid could fluctuate. 
He said that the DLA he received was a lifetime award, and although DLA was being  
replaced with a different benefit,  there was no reason to consider that the monthly payment 
would change. He also said hed been receiving EESA since  2011, and had his last review in 
Ref: DRN117977422014, so that wasnt  likely to change either. He still thought that Metro  had discriminated  
against him because  it hadnt told him that his benefits wouldnt be taken into account, and 
then hadnt taken his benefits  into account,  when it assessed his application for a credit  card.  
Metro said it was sorry it hadnt allowed Mr J to review his application before it was 
submitted. And it said it had looked  again  at his application, and it had run a credit check on 
Mr J after all. It said it was sorry that it hadnt  given him the required documentation  before 
he made his application, and hadnt  set out how he could  complain. It was also sorry that it 
hadnt told him that some of his income  would be disregarded before he made his complaint. 
Metro said that it still thought that the benefits which it had disregarded were  open to review. 
So it didnt think it had done anything wrong by not taking them into account.  Mr J had asked 
for £150 in compensation,  but Metro said it wouldnt pay compensation in this case.  
Mr J replied, repeating  his previous  points  and saying that he noted that Metro still hadnt 
explained why it thought  it hadnt discriminated against him. He brought his complaint to us. 
Mr J said that Metro  had accepted  that it hadnt  given  him an information  sheet  before  his 
application, it hadnt allowed him to review the initial  application, it hadnt told him that part of 
his income wouldnt  be taken into account,  and it hadnt provided  him with details of the 
banks complaint procedure. He said the effect of this was that he had been denied  a credit 
card which wouldve enabled  him to take advantage of a lower rate of interest on any 
outstanding balance than his current credit  card. He wanted Metro to make a number of 
changes for the future, and also to pay him compensation  for the things  that it accepted had 
gone wrong. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Js complaint.  She said that Metro wouldnt usually provide 
an information summary sheet before the application. It was available  online.  So that wasnt 
a mistake. She said that she wouldnt normally expect a staff member to show Mr J the 
screen after they had keyed  in the information that Mr J had given. 
Our adjudicator said that this service  doesnt look at complaints about discrimination under 
the Equality Act. Only a court can consider whether there was any discrimination by the 
bank. She could just look at whether  Mr J had been  treated unfairly.  And she didnt  think  he 
had been. Our adjudicator said that Mr J could  take his complaint to the Equality and Human 
Rights Commission, if he wanted the discrimination issue to be considered. 
Our adjudicator said that Metro shouldve given  Mr J information  about its complaint process, 
but she thought that an apology was enough  to make up for not doing that. And she agreed 
that Metro couldve  told Mr J that his application might  be declined because  of the income he 
receives, but it wouldve needed  him to disclose  his income first, and then communicate  its 
decision. 
On the whole, our adjudicator said that, whilst  Metro  had admitted mistakes, she didnt think 
that those mistakes were  serious enough to require compensation. 
Mr J said that Metro  had confirmed already that it had made  a mistake by not giving him 
information required before his application  was processed. And the documents  available 
online said that they should  be read before going ahead with an application. So he still 
thought that the bank shouldve given him this information before his application.  
Ref: DRN11797743Mr J also said that he thought that not telling him that he was making  an application which  
was bound to fail was a fundamental error.  He said that he shouldve been told that before  
he made the application. He wasnt even told that before he made an appeal. There wasnt 
any problem with the affordability of the card for him. He was only declined because  of the 
benefits he receives. 
Mr J said that he had mentioned that he wasnt given  a copy  of the complaints  procedure, 
because it was another example of poor service.  He hadnt discussed  the discrimination 
issues, because our adjudicator had said that they were outside the scope of what  our 
service could consider.  
Our adjudicator said that shed considered the points that Mr J raised,  but that didnt change 
the position that Mr J didnt  qualify for the card. And the bank had already apologised, so 
there was nothing further for the bank to do. 
Mr J maintained that he wouldnt have applied if hed been in possession  of all the facts. He 
stressed that the bank was aware from early on, and before his application  was processed,  
of where his income came from. 
Mr J said that he would  like his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He wanted 
an ombudsmans view on whether an apology was adequate redress.  So the case  was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Our adjudicator said that our service  wouldnt  usually  consider whether the Equality Act 
had been breached.  It is right to say that this service isnt a court. Were  an informal  
dispute resolution service  an alternative to taking matters  to court.  So I explained that 
its not my role to decide definitively whether the Equality  Act had been breached.  But in 
deciding whether it was fair and reasonable for Metro to refuse to lend to Mr J, I did have 
to bear in mind  the relevant law. So if I did think that Metro  may have unlawfully 
discriminated against Mr J, then that would be relevant to my decision whether it had 
acted fairly and reasonably. 
-Metro didnt lend to Mr J because it was concerned that his benefits could be removed. 
Mr J thinks that this is disability discrimination. We hadnt asked Mr J about his health 
condition, but given the benefits he receives,  I thought it was likely that Mr J would be 
considered to be a disabled  person for the purposes  of the Equality Act.
-To treat someone differently just because of their disability is direct  discrimination. But 
that wasnt what Metro was doing. It hadnt refused Mr J a loan directly because  of any 
disability he has. It refused  Mr J a loan because part of his income is made up of 
benefits, which Id assumed  he receives  because of his disability. 
-So I needed to think about whether what Metro had done  discriminated against Mr J 
because of something connected to his disability.
-Under section 15 of the Equality  Act 2010,  "discrimination arising  from disability" occurs 
where both:
Ref: DRN11797744A treats B unfavourably because of something arising in consequence of Bs 
disability, and
A cannot show that the treatment is a proportionate means of achieving a 
legitimate aim.
-Metro didnt seem to consider DLA or EESA  to be an acceptable  source of income  for 
lending purposes. 
-The test for whether  an issue is something arising in consequence  of [in this case,  Mr 
Js] disability seemed  to me to be very loosely drawn. So I didnt  think  that I could rule 
out that Mr Js income from DLA and EESA  was something arising in consequence  of his 
disability. If Mr Js income from these benefits  was something  arising in consequence of 
his disability, then I needed to consider whether Metros treatment of Mr J was a 
proportionate means  of achieving a legitimate aim. 
-The law in this area is complicated, and Im not an expert in it. But I said I understood 
that DLA is paid to cover  the expected additional expenses that a disabled  person faces 
as a result of their disability. So I thought  that Metro could argue that this payment was 
expected to be spent on Mr Js ongoing  living expenses,  rather than being available to 
meet the costs  of lending. 
-Metro also said that it was concerned that Mr Js benefits  would be subject to review.  
Mr J seems to have  confirmed that his EESA is subject to review.  So I thought that Metro  
could also argue that it wouldnt  be responsible to base any lending  to Mr J on a benefit  
which may be reduced or withdrawn  in future. 
-Disregarding income which  is intended  to meet the extra costs of being  disabled, or 
which is at risk of being reduced  or withdrawn in future, might be a proportionate means 
of achieving a legitimate  aim, of making  sure the person  who is borrowing money is in a 
position to pay it back.
-Because I thought that may be a legitimate aim, I didnt think I could base my decision on 
the assumption that Metro breached the relevant law when it refused to take Mr Js 
benefits income into account  when it was considering him for lending. 
-Id also considered whether Metro had misadvised Mr J. I thought that Metro initially  
admitted that it had failed to give Mr J information that it should give him before he 
makes a credit card application. It later denied that this information should  be given 
before the application is made.  As Mr J pointed out, the leaflet itself says that it should  
be considered  before  the application  is done. I agreed with Mr J that this rather  
undermined Metros  later denial.
-But I thought  that what was more  important than telling Mr J about  the features of the 
card he was applying  for, was warning Mr J that he might not want  to go ahead  with an 
application that was extremely likely to be refused,  because of the amount of his income 
that was made up of benefits. I thought that Metro  made  a mistake when it didnt do that, 
but just went ahead with his application,  after Mr J had told it the sources of his income. 
-The application that Mr J made  involved a credit  check. Running a credit check can 
affect an individuals credit score, which in turn can affect that persons chance of getting 
credit elsewhere. Metro should not have done that if there was no realistic  prospect of 
Mr J being given  the card. 
Ref: DRN11797745-Mr J has also asked whether an apology is sufficient redress.  I said I think  it can be, in 
some cases. I said that that not immediately  being given information on how to make a 
complaint, as Mr J says happened  in this case, could be an example of when  an apology 
might be enough. But I didnt agree with our adjudicator  that an apology was enough in 
this case. Because Metro had admitted a number of mistakes, and in particular because  
it ran an entirely unnecessary credit check on Mr J, and because it didnt seem  to have 
properly addressed the discrimination  point  Mr J raised, I thought that Metro should pay 
Mr J some compensation. 
-I thought that the amount Mr J initially suggested, of £150,  would be the right amount of 
compensation in this case. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Metro didnt respond. Mr J sent a detailed reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr J said that my provisional decision had crossed  with a letter hed sent to me. He said that 
letter offered  evidence that Metro  had another way of assessing income, using a form which 
he hadnt been asked to complete. The form Mr J refers to is apparently used to prove 
income for employees, the self-employed or contractors, or others  who use their bank  
statements to show their income, for instance  those who live off investments or pensions. 
The notes on the form suggest its sometimes required as part of a lending  application.  
Although the proof of income form makes some mention of regular benefits I dont think 
that in itself implies  that Metro will take all benefits income into account. It has said it doesnt,  
and Ive explained why I think it doesnt necessarily have to. I dont think this form, or the fact 
that Metro will sometimes ask some  of its customers to complete that form, changes  that 
position. Nor do I agree with Mr J that he shouldve  been asked to complete this form before 
he was invited to apply for a credit card. I continue to think  that Mr J should, however, have 
been told before the credit  check for his application was run, that he would be unlikely to be 
given the card. 
I note that, aside from the above point, Mr J is broadly in agreement  with my provisional 
decision. Ill now make  the award  I proposed there.
my final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must pay Mr J £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1179774