K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Santander  UK plc mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr and Mrs E. Mr and Mrs E say the policy 
was bought alongside their mortgage.  Santanders records  show a policy  in place from 1991  
and policy  premiums being paid from 1993. The policy provided Mr E only with cover  if he 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Es needs?
- Did Santander give Mr and Mrs E the information they needed  to decide whether to 
take out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr 
and Mrs E are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have done something  different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs E say they think the policy was taken out with their mortgage in 1976. They  say 
their circumstances were largely  the same in 1976, 1991 and 2001. In 2001, they had a 
complaint upheld by Santander involving a different insurance provider.
They say that they were  advised that the policy would give them peace of mind if Mr E was 
out of work. But, think the policy wouldnt have been worth it to them as Mr E wouldnt have 
been covered  if he wasnt  working.
Santander hasnt  been able to provide  much  documentation from the time of the sale,  as 
these events happened many years  ago. Thats not surprising, and its similar  to some other 
Ref: DRN17150782cases Ive seen. Its provided a copy of the policy terms and conditions  from 1991, but says it 
doesnt have these going back to 1976.  
In the absence of anything  else to support what Mr and Mrs E have told me, I havent been 
able to safely conclude  that Santander  didnt make them  aware that the PPI was optional.  
So, I cant fairly uphold  their complaint on this ground. 
Mr E only was covered  under the policy. But, as this was a joint mortgage, Ive taken into 
account Mrs Es circumstances too when deciding if the policy  was right for them. Ive 
worked on the basis that Santander advised  Mr and Mrs E to take out the policy and it 
doesnt look like it was unsuitable based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. I say this because:
-Mr E was eligible  for cover, given the policys terms and conditions. 
-Mr E was self-employed  at the time,  but looking at the terms and conditions that 
applied in 1991, he wouldve still been covered under the policy  and it was no more 
difficult for him to make a successful claim than an employed person. So as he 
wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits, and could 
have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover,  I think it unlikely he needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations. The policy 
wouldve likely paid out for up to 36 months per successful claim for disability, and for 
12 months for unemployment.
-Mrs E was covered  through  her work, but I think it may have been difficult  for them if 
they lost Mr Es income,  so I still think the policy  was right for them,  to protect  their 
home. It wouldve allowed them to use Mrs Es income to meet their other household 
expenses. 
-They said they had some savings. These also, couldve been used to help meet  
household expenses if Mr E wasnt earning.
-I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated  to Mr and Mrs E 
before they agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs E took out the policy  knowing  they 
would have to pay something for it. The monthly  premium by 1993 was £20.45.  I 
dont know what the benefit cover  was. I cant see that this was unaffordable. So I 
think it unlikely Mr and Mrs E wouldve  made a different decision if better information 
about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it should have  been. But as Ive already  said, Mr E wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations  and the policy seems to have been affordable.  So I think it unlikely  
Mr and Mrs E would have made  a different decision  if better information had been provided   
overall, I think they would  still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account what theyve said about Santander upholding another complaint of 
theirs in 2001, when  their circumstances were the same. However,  each case is considered  
on its own facts and merits.  I see this involved a different insurance provider, so its possible 
that the terms and conditions  of the insurance may have been different, even if 
Mr and Mrs Es circumstances werent. So, this doesnt change  my view.
Ref: DRN17150783my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1715078