K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a mortgage in 2003.  Mr and Mrs M says Yorkshire Building  Society,  trading as 
Chelsea Building Society, mis-sold them the PPI. 
In my decision Ill refer to the business that sold the policy  as Yorkshire.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Yorkshire made it clear  that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  remember  this. They  say that 
Yorkshire encouraged  them to take the policy  by insinuating that itd help their mortgage  
application. And I dont  doubt that Yorkshire did encourage  them  to take it. But Ive also seen 
a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application  form.  The form gives  them the option to 
accept or decline PPI, and at that stage they declined it. Yorkshire says the PPI was then 
taken by phone around three weeks later.
Having considered this, I dont  think  Mr and Mrs M believed  that taking PPI wouldve helped 
their mortgage application,  because they initially declined  it. And on balance, I think 
Yorkshire made them aware  they had a choice by initially  giving them the option to decline.
Yorkshire didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs M got the information they needed so that 
they could make that decision  for themselves. 
Mr and Mrs M say they tried to make a claim in 2009 when Mr M was made  redundant. They 
say they didnt see the claim through, as theyd have had to wait for 90 days before receiving 
any money, by which time Mr M was working again.
Yorkshire says Mr and Mrs Ms policy had a 30 day deferral period, rather than a 90 day 
deferral period. This means that theyd have needed to wait 30 days to make  a claim 
following sickness or unemployment, and not 90 days. It also says its insurer doesnt have a 
record of Mr and Mrs M enquiring about,  or making  a claim. Though I accept  that given the 
time that has passed, thats not to say it definitely didnt happen.
Ive checked the documentation that Mr and Mrs M were sent when they took the policy  and 
I can see their policy did have a 30 day deferral period. I do think this couldve been clearer 
during the sales  process, but even  if it was, I dont think  Mr and Mrs M wouldve made a 
different decision and not taken the policy. I say this because theyve explained that they 
were both entitled to statutory  sick pay if they were too unwell to work,  or they couldve relied 
on one anothers  salaries if one of them had lost their job. And whilst these means couldve 
helped them sustain  their mortgage repayments  in the short  term, such  as during the 
deferral period, I think the policy  couldve  been useful to them after that.
Ref: DRN13993082Its possible the information Yorkshire gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
they were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   so it would have 
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Yorkshire doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Yorkshire has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:  
Yorkshire got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because Yorkshire didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Yorkshire has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think thats fair in this case.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs M that Ive thought carefully about everything  theyve said. 
But for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont think that Yorkshire mis-sold them  this PPI policy.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society doesnt  have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1399308