K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about Shawbrook Bank Limited  (Shawbrook) regarding  a loan it granted to 
him in January 2018. He feels that the credit  and affordability checks  done by Shawbrook 
were inadequate  and that it lent to him irresponsibly. Mr F wants  the business to agree a 
reduced repayment rate with him without any impact on his credit  file. 
background
In January 2018, Mr F applied for a loan of £12,500 with Shawbrook.  He applied  online, via a 
website for checking  credit. 
The information provided to Shawbrook included that Mr F was a home owner who had 
owned his property for a long time and that he was employed on a salary of more  than 
£40,000 per year. 
The application process did not request details of Mr Fs outgoings. 
Shawbrook telephoned  Mr F to carry out a care call. They discussed the loan terms with him 
and checked that he wanted  to proceed with the loan. The agent for Shawbrook  asked the 
purpose of the loan,  and checked  that the repayment was affordable at £280.99 per month.  
Mr F confirmed that the loan was for debt consolidation purposes and that it was affordable. 
Mr F said that based on his current repayments  he would be more than £100 per month 
better off. 
The loan was then drawn down. 
Mr F made a complaint to Shawbrook in May 2018. He complained  that Shawbrook had not 
taken into account  his other commitments when lending to him and he felt the loan was 
irresponsible. He also stated that his credit  file included previous  defaults and a court 
judgement, which he did not think had been  taken into account.
Mr F and Shawbrook  exchanged emails  in respect  of his complaint and Shawbrook sent its 
final response letter in late May 2018.  Shawbrook did not uphold  the complaint  and set out 
its process for considering the loan. It explained that it used credit  scoring to assess the risk 
of lending and that Mr F had fallen within their acceptable boundaries for risk. 
Shawbrook disagreed that his personal  circumstances  had not been taken into account, and 
pointed to the care call during which Mr F confirmed that the loan would be affordable.  
Mr F was not happy with this response and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Fs complaint and set out a view to the parties. 
This was that Shawbrook  had not lent irresponsibly and he did not recommend that 
Shawbrook do anything  further. 
Mr F did not accept that view and made some additional comments. 
The adjudicators view remained  unchanged  so Mr F requested an ombudsman decision. 
Ref: DRN17185282my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important  to first set out our role in relation  to complaints as Mr F has made comments 
about the lending criteria operated by Shawbrook and whether their policy was adequate. 
Our role is not to rule on, processes and policies applied by financial businesses.  This is the 
role of the regulator,  the Financial Conduct  Authority. 
Our role is to look at the circumstances of individual complaints and decide whether  the 
business has treated  an individual consumer  fairly  and reasonably,  taking into account the 
law, the available evidence, and good industry practice. 
If we consider that the business has not treated the individual  fairly then we can look at the 
impact of the failing  on the consumer and how this can be compensated, or otherwise  put 
right. 
Mr F is unhappy  that Shawbrook did not undertake sufficient scrutiny of his income and 
expenditure before agreeing to lend to him. In particular he thinks  that negative  information 
on his credit file such as defaults  and a CCJ should  have precluded his application, and he is 
unhappy that when he applied using  his alternative address he received  a different 
application outcome.  He also says that the credit files used by Shawbrook were inaccurate  
as they did not contain  details of one of his existing loans. 
Shawbrook has demonstrated  that it obtained some information on Mr Fs income  and that 
he was a home owner from the application. It has also shown that it carried out a credit  
scoring process to determine the likelihood  of Mr F making his repayments. 
Mr F explained that the defaults and CCJ were  all close to dropping off his credit profile at 
the time of the loan application,  and Shawbrook has explained that these factors,  when more  
than 36 months old, would not be a barrier to lending, where a consumers credit  score was 
otherwise acceptable.  I think  this is reasonable, and the remainder of Mr Fs credit file 
showed that he reliably meets his obligations. 
I accept that Shawbrooks assessment of income versus expenditure does not appear to 
have been extensive, and Shawbrook  acknowledges that it relied mostly on credit scoring as 
a record of past behaviour. However,  Shawbrook  obtained  details of Mr Fs income and 
considered that this, combined with Mr Fs credit scoring information, indicated that Mr F was 
able to afford the loan and was likely to make  repayments. 
Mr F says the information provided on his income  was inaccurate to the extent that his basic  
salary is a much lower figure, and Shawbrook did not know that Mr F also paid towards  
another property.
I appreciate Mr Fs view that the information requested was insufficient, but it was Mr Fs 
responsibility to ensure  that accurate information was included  on his application, and if he 
was aware that the information he was giving was not representative of the full picture of his 
finances, he should have been upfront  about  this. 
Mr F was aware of his outgoings and whether the loan was affordable to him, taking into 
account his other commitments, and any costs  which he would save  by consolidating his 
Ref: DRN17185283debt. He appeared to have considered the cost of this during the care call when he told the 
advisor that the loan was affordable and that he would make a monthly  saving of over £100 
when he settled other loans. 
It is not clear  whether  Mr F did, in fact settle  his other debts,  but I think it was reasonable for 
Shawbrook to lend to him where the information it held suggested that the loan was 
affordable and would improve Mr Fs situation.  
So whilst I agree that Shawbrooks assessment could have been better, I do not think  it was 
unreasonable in Mr Fs circumstances. 
As a result I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
I realise that this will be disappointing  for Mr F but I hope it clearly explains the limits of our 
role, and why I have reached  my view. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint and do not ask Shawbrook 
Bank Limited  to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1718528