K822xcomplaint
Mrs M is unhappy  that Allianz  Insurance  Plc declined a claim for water damage  under her 
home insurance policy.
background 
In December 2017 Mrs M made a claim to Allianz. She said shed found damp in her 
bedroom wall and that the damage had been caused by a worn  seal around the bath. Mrs M 
says at this time her builder fixed a small leak under her bath. In February 2018 Mrs Ms 
builder sent Allianz  a quote of £4,456 plus VAT for repairs and photos of the bathroom tiles 
and damp  walls.
Allianz declined  the claim.  It said damage due to the defective bath seal was wear and tear 
and wasnt covered by her policy.
Mrs M sent Allianz a further report from her builder  dated March 2018.  That said hed found 
a leaking pipe under  the bath and that had caused the damage.
Allianz sent its contractor  to inspect the property.  They reported that the bath seal was in 
poor condition, tiles were  almost falling off the wall and there was a lot of dampness  in the 
floor and walls. Allianz continued to decline  the claim. It thought thered probably been poor 
maintenance around the bath seals causing  water to damage  the walls over a long period of 
time. It also said that Mrs M hadnt  mentioned the leaking pipe when shed first reported  the 
claim.
In April 2018 Mrs Ms builder sent Allianz  photos of the leaking pipe. Allianz said the photos 
didnt prove  that the pipe was leaking at the date of the loss and had caused the damage 
being claimed for. It also said there  was no evidence  that the leaking pipe had been  repaired 
when the builder located it in November 2017.
Mrs M then brought a complaint  to this service.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint. An 
extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
Mrs Ms policy covers her (amongst other things)  for leaks from water pipes. She needs to 
show that the damage shes  claiming for was caused by something  covered by her policy. If 
she has done this, Allianz is required to settle the claim  unless it can disprove what  Mrs M 
has said and/or show  that the damage was caused  by something not covered by the policy.
When she first made her claim, I dont think Mrs M showed that her loss was covered by the 
policy. She said the damp had been  caused  by the seal around the bath having worn  away.
It wasnt until about four months after shed first notified Allianz  of the claim that Mrs M 
provided a report from her builder. She says the delay was partly due to bad weather. He 
said that he went to Mrs Ms property on 10 November 2017  and
The dampness was found to be caused by leaking pipework under  the bath, this was being 
drawn into the wall and travelling up same.
Ref: DRN13954702When the supplier sent by Allianz went to Mrs Ms home in March  2018, Mrs M mentioned 
that shed suffered  a leak from a pipe and damage  from worn bath seals. The suppliers 
report focuses on the poor condition of the bath seal. They seemed to have largely  agreed  
with Mrs Ms builder  as to the extent of repairs required.
But the supplier  doesnt appear to have checked the pipe work under the bath. I think  it 
should have done so.
The builders  told us what happened after repairs started:
once the bath was removed there  seemed to be several leaks  all caused  by corrosion of the 
copper pipework, it appears that the pipe was corroded almost in its entirety  and was 
effectively as porous  as a sponge causing the mains pressure water to seep through  and 
constantly drip off at the low point.
The builder  said he had no doubt that due to the volume of water escaping  from this pipe 
it was the main cause  of the damage.
Ive seen a video of the dripping  pipe and photos  which show  the corrosion referred to by 
the builder.
Overall I dont think Allianz has done enough to show that a defective seal around the bath 
rather than a water leak caused  the damage  that Mrs M is claiming  for. So I conclude that the 
decision by Allianz  to decline Mrs Ms claim was unfair.
It doesnt seem fair to me though to make  Allianz  settle the whole of this claim. Mrs M 
has agreed that the defective bath seal was part of the problem. She has an electric 
shower above the bath. Having looked at photos of the defective bath seal and mould  
above the bath I can understand why Allianz thought water  from the shower  might  have  
got through gaps in the seal and made  the floor and walls wet.
It seems to me impossible to differentiate between the damage caused by the defective  
bath seal and that caused  by the leaking pipe. So I think  a fair outcome would be for Allianz 
to pay half the cost of Mrs Ms claim being £2,673.60.
responses to my provisional  findings
Allianz didnt agree  with my provisional decision.  In summary Allianz made  the following 
points:
When she first notified the claim,  Mrs M had said the damage had been caused  by gaps 
in the bath sealant.
There was no mention of a leaking pipe in the original  estimate  from Mrs Ms builder 
prepared in November  2017. It would have  expected the builder to investigate  under the 
bath at that stage.
Four months later (and after Mrs Ms claim had been declined) the same builder said hed 
found a leaking  pipe on his inspection in November 2017.
Theres no evidence  that the pipe under  the bath was been  repaired or replaced in 
November 2017  when Mrs Ms builder said he first identified  a leak.
It didnt agree that the leaking pipe which had been replaced  had contributed  to the 
damage. The only damage  its contractor was aware of was to a pipe under the toilet. The 
Ref: DRN13954703toilet is on an opposite wall to the bath. It sent a photo of this pipe and the surrounding  
area appeared to be dry.
Mrs M had told it in February  2018  that she was saving towards the cost of the repairs. 
So it thought she was aware  that her claim wasnt covered.
Mrs M accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Allianz is concerned that Mrs Ms builder only mentioned  in March that 
hed found a leaking pipe under the bath the previous November and that the leak hadnt 
been repaired for several months.
Mrs Ms builder  has explained that. He said: 
We had attended the property in November 2017  to repair a leak I believe to have been in 
the pipe chase adjacent to the bath under emergency works at which  time we supplied a 
quote for reinstatement works  of the damaged areas.
He said he didn't hear back  from Mrs M until February of 2018 as she was waiting for her 
claim to be accepted by Allianz but she said she would have to go ahead and have the work  
carried out in any event. He said when they started the works they pulled out the old sanitary 
ware and that is when  they discovered the major leak. He thought  that leak had without 
doubt caused the majority of the damp issues and that was why the damp problem  hadnt  
been resolved  after his first visit.
I think thats a reasonable explanation  as to why the Mrs Ms builder didnt mention the leak 
in the initial  estimate   he thought hed fixed  it. Thats also supported by the fact Mrs M told 
Allianzs contractor on 8 March 2018 that shed had the leak repaired.
I appreciate that Allianzs contractor didnt see the leaking pipe when she visited  on 8 March. 
But she might  well have been  able to see it if shed inspected under the bath.
I dont think it was unreasonable  of Mrs M to believe that her claim  hadnt  been accepted  
thats what shed  been told by Allianz. And I dont think its fair for Allianz to rely on that to 
continue to refuse to contribute  towards her claim.
Overall I see no reason to change  my provisional  decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Allianz  Insurance Plc to pay Mrs M £2,673.60 in part 
settlement of her claim.
Ref: DRN13954704Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1395470