K820x#14Complaint
Mr T has complained that National  Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold a term 
assurance policy and unreasonably turned down  a claim, leading  to financial hardship.
Background
Mr T took out a term assurance policy through NatWest in 2001 to protect a mortgage. The 
policy provided decreasing life and critical illness cover of £100,000 over a term of 20 years.  
In 2004 Mr T took out a new mortgage  with NatWest  part of which  was to be used to pay 
off the first loan. NatWest  recommended a new decreasing term assurance policy to replace 
the first one. This provided life and critical illness cover of £148,000 over a term of 25 years.
In 2006 Mr T was in poor health and was experiencing financial difficulty. He says he tried to 
make a claim under his term assurance  policy as he was unable  to work due to disability, but 
this was declined.  Mr T eventually had to sell the property to repay the loan with NatWest.
Mr T raised  a complaint with NatWest about  this in 2019. He said the policies were mis-sold  
as he was led to believe hed be able to claim if he couldnt work because of disability.  He 
said hed lost everything as a result.  Mr T also complained that when  his property was sold 
NatWest used the proceeds to clear an overdraft on a business account  he held with it. Mr T 
didnt think this was fair.
NatWest said the first policy sold to Mr T was suitable for his needs  at the time. But it said 
the policy sold in 2004 wasnt; the policy had a term of 25 years, but Mr Ts loan only had a 
term of 20 years. NatWest  said the term of the policy shouldve matched the term of the loan 
and it confirmed that a policy with a term of 20 years wouldve cost him less. So, NatWest 
offered him a refund  of the overpaid premiums from 2004 until the policy  was cancelled in 
February 2006. It also offered £150 for the time taken to resolve the complaint. NatWest said 
the insurer of the policy  taken in 2004  (which is now a business Ill call A) said it had no 
record of him ever making  a claim. So, it didnt agree that it had turned down a claim.
Mr T remained unhappy and referred his complaint  to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He thought the compensation offered for the second policy was fair 
and said there wasnt  any evidence to show hed made a critical illness claim. He said that 
Mr T would need to take up the matter with A if he thought hed made a claim and this had 
been declined.
Mr T didnt  agree with the investigators view. He said he said hed tried to make claims 
under all the policies hed taken through NatWest. He said NatWest  had failed to make a 
critical illness claim on his behalf.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know this will disappoint Mr T, so Id like to explain why.
Ref: DRN19740442As I understand it, Mr T has complained about his term assurance  policy  because he wasnt  
able to benefit from it when he was most in need. He says he was told it would cover him if 
he couldnt work because of disability and it would pay off his mortgage. However, Mr T says 
his claim was declined.
A says that it doesnt have any record of Mr T making a claim  Mr T also hasnt  provided  
any evidence to show he made a claim under the term assurance policy. Having considered  
the available  evidence, I think Mr T is actually referring to a business overdraft insurance 
policy that hed taken through NatWest. Ive seen a letter from NatWest dated  6 July 2006  
explaining that his disability claim had been declined, so I think  this is what Mr T means  
when he says his claim was declined.
NatWest refunded the premiums Mr T paid for the business overdraft  insurance  policy  after 
he made a separate complaint in 2019. But if he feels the claim was declined  unfairly, and 
that he suffered  financially  as a result, he would need to pursue a complaint with the insurer 
of that policy. Mr T should let us know if he needs  help with this.
After being told that the only claim hed made was under his business overdraft insurance 
policy, Mr T said that he asked NatWest to consider claims  under all of his insurance  
policies, but it didnt refer his critical  illness  claim to the insurer. Ive considered  this point 
carefully, but I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr T asked  NatWest  to consider a 
critical illness claim. If a claim had been started the insurer wouldve required his consent to 
access medical information. So, I think Mr T wouldve most likely known at the time that a 
claim hadnt been started for him as he hadnt  received any contact from the insurer about  it.
I know Mr T says the policy didnt cover him when he needed it, which led to financial 
hardship. But without  evidence to show that a claim was made its difficult to say whether 
Mr T wouldve been able to benefit  from the policy at the time.
Mr T says he was led to believe the policy would pay off his mortgage if he couldnt work. 
Ive reviewed the policy documents, which show that the policy provided critical illness cover 
if Mr T met the definition  of permanent total disablement. In order  to satisfy the definition,  
Mr T wouldve needed to be permanently unable to perform three  or more activities  of daily 
living. So, he wouldnt  have been eligible to claim just because he was unable to work, the 
level of disability required was much higher.
Ive seen a copy  of the suitability letter sent to Mr T, which says that he had been given a 
copy of the key features in January 2004. This document  set out the critical illnesses 
covered and the criteria  for permanent total disablement. So, I think Mr T wouldve had 
enough information to know how the policy worked  and what it covered. For this reason, 
I havent seen  enough evidence to say Mr T was misled about the policy providing cover if 
he could no longer work.
When it reviewed Mr Ts complaint, NatWest  realised that the policy  sold to him in 2004 
wasnt strictly suitable for him. This was because the policy  was taken  to cover a mortgage, 
and the term of the mortgage and the policy didnt match.  NatWest has made an offer to 
refund the difference between the premium Mr T should have paid for a 20 year policy  and 
the premiums he actually paid. It has added interest at 8%. NatWest also offered to pay Mr T 
£150 for the delays in responding to his complaint.  The total offer made to Mr T is £305.92.  
NatWest has told me that the offer remains open  to Mr T for acceptance. Overall, I think  this 
offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances as it puts Mr T back into the position he 
Ref: DRN19740443wouldve been in if a suitable  policy had been sold to him. So, I think  the offer should  be 
accepted in settlement of this complaint.
Mr T also complained that when  he was told to sell property to pay off his loan,  NatWest  
used the proceeds  to pay off his business  overdraft. But this hasnt  yet been investigated by 
NatWest so this complaint  will be addressed separately under a different complaint 
reference.
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has made an offer to pay Mr T compensation of £305.92. 
I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is 
that National Westminster  Bank  Plc should  pay Mr T £305.92.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1974044