K820x#14complaint
Mr M1 complains  (on behalf  of the estates  of the late Mr M and Mrs M) that 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mr and Mrs M a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Halifax in 1998. They  also took out PPI to protect 
their monthly mortgage repayments in the event that they couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M1 disagrees with our adjudicators  view.  
Mr M1 mainly  says that Halifax led Mr and Mrs M to think that they had to take out the PPI in 
order to get the mortgage they were  applying for and so they were  unfairly  pressured  into 
buying cover  they didn't need.  He also says Mr and Mrs M had work benefits and savings 
they could've relied on to pay their mortgage if they werent able to work. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
I appreciate its been difficult  for Mr M1 to obtain all the information he would ideally  like to 
be able to provide  in support this complaint.  Hes been able to tell us about his discussions 
with the late Mr and Mrs M concerning the sale. But what  he says isnt enough on its own for 
me to be able to uphold  the complaint. I have to look at all the available information and think  
about the wider  circumstances when I decide  what I think is most  likely.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. Heres why I say this.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken out. That 
isnt surprising given  how long ago this sale happened and the mortgage  ended.  But Mr M1 
told us that Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI during a meeting at a Halifax  branch so I think its 
likely thats  what happened.  
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Ms home wouldve  been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. Without seeing  any notes or records from the meeting, or any paperwork  they signed,  
I dont know how Halifax presented or explained PPI to Mr and Mrs M. Ive thought carefully  
about everything Mr M1 has told us. Halifax may well have  strongly encouraged 
Mr and Mrs M to have  PPI. But I dont think the evidence  Ive got is strong  or clear enough 
for me to say that Halifax unfairly pressured  Mr and Mrs M into taking out the PPI. It looks  
like the policy offered Mr and Mrs M better protection than they wouldve had if theyd just 
relied on their existing benefits  through work  and their savings  (Ill say more about this later). 
So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
Taking all this into account, on balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs M decided  they 
wanted to have the benefits and security  that PPI offered. I find its likely  that the PPI was 
added to Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage account because  they chose to buy the policy,  knowing it 
was optional with their mortgage.
Ref: DRN11265162Halifax wasnt sure whether it had specifically advised  Mr and Mrs M to have the PPI. But in 
fairness to them,  it looked  at the mis-sale complaint on the basis  that its advisor  had 
recommended PPI during the meeting Mr and Mrs M told Mr M1about.  Given the lack of 
paperwork showing how Halifax sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, I think this is the fairest  way 
to assess this complaint  as it imposes  extra obligations on the lender. If a business  makes a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable . 
So this way of looking at the complaint Mr M1 has brought to us gives  it the best chance  of 
succeeding. And thats the approach Im taking too.
Based on what Ive been told, Mr and Mrs M were both eligible for the PPI. The policy 
wouldve paid out in full for up to 12 months  per claim in the event of an accident or illness 
that prevented  either (or both) of them from working.  So it provided better cover than sick 
pay entitlement from an employer that paid out for 12 months but went down to half pay after 
the first 6 months off work. And the policy wouldve paid out on top of such  work benefits. 
Bearing in mind that Mr and Mrs M mightve  also had some additional costs if they were too 
unwell to go back to work  or disabled, I think this couldve been  a useful benefit at a difficult 
time.  
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure.  The policy  wouldve also paid 
out for up to 12 months for any one claim,  on top of any redundancy payment they mightve  
got, if Mr or Mrs M became unexpectedly unemployed. 
Mr and Mrs M couldve made repeated  claims on the policy , giving them  long term protection 
for their mortgage.
I can see that its been a frustrating  process for Mr M1 when hes tried to find out exactly 
how much  Mr and Mrs M wouldve had in savings in 1998 when they took out this PPI. Ive 
no reason to doubt Mr M1 when he says that he wouldve expected Mr and Mrs M to have 
had savings in the bank.  And Ive taken  into account  the amount of savings that Mr M had 
when he died. So I accept  that they probably  had some savings when  they took out the PPI. 
But I must keep in mind  that, when they took out the PPI, Mr and Mrs M couldnt have been  
sure that they wouldve  always  had savings  to rely on if theyd needed to make  a claim as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And it looks like they preferred not to spend  their savings, or they had other  plans for that 
money, since they took out this mortgage rather than invest all their savings in buying the 
house. Having  PPI meant Mr and Mrs M could depend on being  able to continue to keep 
savings intact  to spend on other things or to provide financial security for the future. Even if 
Mr and Mrs M couldnt work, PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly  
repayments were protected without them having to use their savings. It looks  to me like 
Mr and Mrs M mightve felt that was a useful extra benefit.
Ive also taken into account that Mr and Mrs M both had critical illness  and death  cover.  But 
this provided different  benefits from PPI and paid out in different circumstances. So this 
doesnt affect my overall view that PPI was still suitable for Mr and Mrs M taking  into account 
their financial  situation overall. 
Ref: DRN11265163Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But I dont think its likely that more  or better  information  about 
what the policy didnt  cover wouldve affected  Mr and Mrs Ms decision to take it out, as they 
werent affected by any of those things when they took out the PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear when they bought the policy  but Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs M couldnt afford the premiums.  And this was a policy  
Mr and Mrs M paid for monthly,  so they couldve cancelled it at any time at no extra cost if 
they decided they no longer wanted it. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs M still wouldve decided to buy the policy  even if theyd been better 
informed as the policy gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I think  that 
view is borne out by the fact that Halifax says both Mr and Mrs M made successful  claims on 
the policy  which suggests to me that they had a need for the policy.
On balance, I dont  find that the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt have to repay 
everything Mr and Mrs M paid for it.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M1 because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr M1 said about the way other PPI cases  have been dealt 
with. But each complaint is looked at on its own facts and merits. Ive looked at the 
circumstances that apply in this particular  case and what happened on other cases doesnt 
change my conclusion  here.  
In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Mr M1 has said,  
including the comments he made  in response  to our adjudicators view. I appreciate he feels 
strongly about this complaint and has put time and effort into it. I understand that what Ive 
said will come  as a disappointment.  In my decision Ive dealt with all the main  points that 
have an impact on the outcome of this complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as 
Ive done will help explain  how Ive reached  my decision.
Ref: DRN11265164my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay to Mr M1 all of the cost of the PPI that Mr and Mrs M paid.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay to Mr M1 any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium Mr and Mrs M paid. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M1 to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1126516