K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mrs B payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a secured loan in 2002. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why:
I think Bank of Scotland made Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional,  but that she still 
chose to take it. The PPI was presented  as a choice on the application form and Mrs B 
signed to say she wanted to take it. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs B, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a secured loan can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have  paid benefits  
at the same time as Mrs B received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it looks  
as though she didnt have  savings  or other significant means of help to fall back  on. So 
the PPI would have put Mrs B in a more secure position,  if she eventually lost income 
due to long term sickness or unemployment.  And Ive not been  told anything  to suggest 
she couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. So I think  the PPI would have been 
potentially useful.  
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Mrs B would have understood how 
much it would cost. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mrs B would  have been affected by any of these. Its likely she 
was eligible for the policy, and shed  be paying  for it monthly, so she could cancel it at 
any time without further cost if her situation  changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN11825602Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1182560