K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Ms D complain  they were mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr H and Ms D took advice from L&G when the fixed  rate on their previous mortgage was 
coming to an end.
As a result of the advice  they re-mortgaged to another lender, taking a five year fixed  rate. 
They consolidated most of their unsecured debt and borrowed around another £11,000.  Now 
a claims management  company (CMC) acting on their behalf  claims this was unsuitable, and 
that they were  charged excessive and unfair fees to do so. Our investigator didnt 
recommend upholding the complaint, so it comes to me for a final decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the fact find that was taken at the time  its not been suggested that its an 
inaccurate record of Mr H and Ms Ds financial position at the time of the advice. It shows 
that they had six credit  and store cards, and three  personal  loans  one of which had been  
taken out for a previous  debt consolidation.  It also shows that they had a shortfall of around 
£100 per month on their income and expenditure.
So I think Mr H and Ms D were in financial difficulty at the time. They  had a history of running  
up and consolidating  debt, and had run up further  debts. They were over-spending each 
month. The CMC says that debt consolidation was unnecessary, and they could  have 
reduced their outgoings instead. But their monthly spending on non-essential and 
uncommitted expenditure doesnt seen unreasonably high,  and I think  there  was relatively 
little room for cuts  the £100  shortfall  could have  been eliminated,  but I dont think  it would 
have been possible  to get to a comfortable  surplus just by cutting expenditure.
In my view, the only realistic alternative  to consolidation to allow Mr H and Ms D to get their 
finances back on track was to enter  into an arrangement with their creditors   but thats a 
serious step, and I can understand why Mr H and Ms D may have preferred another 
consolidation.
Overall, therefore, I dont think it was unsuitable to consolidate the debts. However, I do 
have some concerns  about the further borrowing. The suitability record  shows  that Mr H and 
Ms D decided not to consolidate all their debt so they could  use some of the additional funds 
 borrowing  up to the maximum the lender  would  lend  for an expensive holiday. I dont 
think this was wise and I think the adviser should  have advised  them  against borrowing  
further funds for lifestyle expenditure  rather than using  them  to eliminate their other  debts. 
However, I dont intend to uphold this part of the complaint and direct L&G to pay redress for 
it. Thats because,  firstly, given their spending history and what  they wanted  to do at the 
time, Im not entirely persuaded they would have taken such advice if given. And secondly, 
they have had the benefit of the funds, so it wouldnt be fair to require L&G to repay  the 
capital borrowed to them. If they had borrowed the same  amount in another way, I think  its 
likely the interest rate would have been significantly  higher  and, if over a shorter term  the 
Ref: DRN16220622monthly payments  would be too. If theyd borrowed the amount on their credit  cards,  it would 
have been particularly expensive. So Im not persuaded theres  been  a quantifiable financial 
loss.
The CMC also complains  about the fees the broker  charged. L&G has offered to refund 
commission the broker received for referring Mr H and Ms D to a solicitor, plus £100. Im not 
persuaded the fees charged  to Mr H and Ms D were  unfair  or unreasonable. Other brokers 
may charge different  amounts, or structure  their charges differently. But theres no rule that 
says a broker must charge no more than a particular amount, or describe their fees in a 
particular way. I think the key point is that Mr H and Ms D were clearly told what they would 
have to pay, agreed to do so, and received the service theyd paid for. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint and I dont 
require it to take any further action beyond that.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2020
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1622062