K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Ms D says Coventry Building  Society (CBS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
This complaint has been brought to us by Ms D on behalf of herself and the late Mrs D but 
the PPI was taken out in the name of Ms D only. In the hope that neither  party  will mind, Ill 
refer to the late Mrs D as Mrs D wherever necessary  throughout the decision.
background
In 1998 Ms D and Mrs D took out a mortgage to help them to buy their home. At the same 
time PPI was taken  out and this policy provided  cover for Ms D only.  She paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. If she made a successful claim for accident, sickness  or 
unemployment she would have received the monthly repayment for up to nine months 
initially, which changed to 12 months  the following year. 
In 2003 Ms D took out a further advance and her PPI policy was re-arranged to enable her to 
have three  months  free cover. However, no premiums were ever received for this policy and 
the policy was cancelled. This decision  will therefore  only consider the complaint relating to 
the 1998 policy sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ms D has told us that she didnt know the policy was optional  but I think  CBS made  it clear  
that Ms D didnt have  to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this. I say this because Ive been given a copy  of the 
mortgage application form completed  at the time and this includes a section about PPI. In 
this section there are options to accept or decline to take out the cover and I can see that the 
yes option has been ticked on the form. In addition there  are boxes  to tick to determine the 
level of cover and the length of time it would provide the benefit  and I can see that the option 
to take out accident, sickness and unemployment  for a nine month  cover  period has been  
chosen. Ms D has signed the form which suggests  she agreed with everything  that had been  
entered. If Ms D didnt  want to take out the PPI, she could have ticked  the no option.
Im also aware that Ms D took out a further advance on her mortgage  in 2002 but didnt 
chose to obtain PPI cover  for this increase  in her payments. So taking everything into 
account that Ive seen  and been  told, I think it was clear the policy was optional and that 
Ms D agreed to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want  it.
CBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Ms D so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms D got the information she needed to decide for herself if it was 
right for her. 
Ref: DRN16143732Its possible the information CBS gave Ms D about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI by ticking the box on the application  form - so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. And based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time it doesnt look like she was affected  by the main  exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover  such as having unusual  working arrangements   so it seems  the policy would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong.
Ms D has told us that she was suffering from a medical condition when she took out this 
policy and she was on medication for that condition. When checking the policy  terms and 
conditions for when the policy was sold, it is clear that this policy wouldnt provide cover for 
any condition for which  you had received treatment within the 12 months  prior to taking the 
cover  so it seems Ms D wouldnt have been  able to claim for this condition.  Ms Ds 
representatives have  said she wouldnt  have  taken the policy if she had known. 
CBS no longer has all of the paperwork  from that time but it has provided a sample  of the 
PPI application  that Ms D would have completed  following her request to set up the policy as 
detailed on the mortgage application.  In the declaration  on the PPI form there is a section 
which states that If I/we have suffered from any disability  or illness  or received  medical 
treatment or advice in the post 12 months, I/we understand that any related claim will not be 
covered.  Ms D would  have had to sign this declaration to confirm she understood the terms. 
So I think that Ms D would have been  aware  that this condition  wouldnt have been covered. 
Even if Ms D hadnt been made fully aware of this exclusion, from what  I understand she 
hadnt taken any time off work as a result of this condition  and so she wouldnt have been  
expecting to be claiming under this policy for this situation. So I dont think this exclusion 
would have made a difference  to her decision to take out this policy.
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
Which means CBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms D.
But CBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms D because: 
CBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms D about that. Because CBS didnt tell Ms D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, CBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ms D has told us that she was entitled to sick pay from her employer and that she had 
savings and a partner who she could rely on to help her. But this policy would pay out in 
addition to any sick pay she would  receive and, potentially for longer than she would receive 
her full pay. And by having this cover it would enable her to protect her savings for another 
purpose or use them to cover other  essential living expenses. So I think this could have 
provided her with a useful  benefit.  
Ive noted what  she has said about her partner,  and whilst I appreciate they may have 
wanted to help, support from others  cant always be guaranteed as their circumstances can 
also change, meaning they are unable to provide  such financial assistance. So these points  
dont alter my decision.
Ref: DRN16143733what the business needs  to do
CBS has to pay back to Ms D any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. CBS should also pay back to Ms D any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
CBS should pay back to Ms D the extra she paid each month because  the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. CBS should also pay Ms D 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms D can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Coventry  Building Society  does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms D.
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Ms D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D on behalf  or 
herself and the estate  of the late Mrs D to accept  or reject my decision before 
3 February 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1614373