K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mrs and Mr T payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage. The 
mortgage started in 1997, and the PPI cover in 2000.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place over 20 years ago and not all of the original documents  from 
the actual sale are now available. Also I wouldnt  expect someone to recall  in detail 
everything that happened so long ago. Ive borne in mind  these  difficulties in the evidence  
when considering the case. As with all cases,  Ive still had to decide whats  most likely to 
have happened, based on what evidence there  is. 
Ive taken all this into account and Ive considered Mrs and Mr Ts comments. However, Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs and Mr G have said they had no idea they had taken insurance, and wouldnt have 
agreed to it. However  it wouldnt  be fair for me to conclude the PPI was added without their 
agreement, unless there was some type of supporting evidence. It would be more  usual for 
the PPI to have  been mentioned in the documents at the time, and I think  its more  likely this 
is what happened, and that the PPI was offered as a choice. I have seen the letters that 
were sent in response to an apparent enquiry, with a quote for the cost of covering Mr T; and 
the later letter  confirming the PPI had been set up. So it looks  very likely Mrs and Mr T knew 
about the PPI at the time,  even though they have no memory of it now. So I also think its 
quite likely they agreed to the PPI at the time, but now dont remember  it. Overall,  without 
stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mrs and Mr Ts consent. 
Bank of Scotland says it recommended  the PPI to Mrs and Mr T. But it doesnt  look as if the 
recommendation was unsuitable, based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.  
Its likely  Mrs and Mr T were eligible for the policy. And finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the same 
time as Mr T (the person covered) received any employer sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. It would have  paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it 
would have put off the time when  they would need  to fall back on any savings or other 
means they may have had for paying the mortgage. This all would have put Mrs and Mr T in 
a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness  or 
unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out. So I think the PPI would  have been  potentially useful, and so a 
Ref: DRN16210182recommendation was suitable. 
 
I think the cost of the PPI was set out by Bank of Scotland, so Mrs and Mr T would have  
known how much theyd  have to pay. Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point out 
the main things the policy didnt cover. But its unlikely Mrs and Mr T would have been 
affected by any of these.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1621018