K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, wont  refund transactions  
made from his Halifax savings account from 2012 to 2016,  which  he didnt authorise.
background
In June 2016 Mr E called Halifax to tell them he was concerned about transactions  on his 
savings account  which he hadnt  made. He felt there was £10,000 missing from his account.  
Mr E wasnt  in a position to continue with this conversation  and ended  the call. Nothing 
further happened.
In August  2017  Mr E went into his branch to repeat his concerns about money that was 
missing from his account. He said this amounted  to £15,000. The staff in branch explained 
they wouldnt be upholding his complaint. All the transactions were done  in branch. As these 
were cash  withdrawals they knew Mr E must have gone through  some form of identification 
in branch. There were  also regular  transfers  to his Halifax current account.
Halifax sent Mr E a final response on this issue in December 2018 after hed raised  his 
concerns through his solicitor.  Mr Es representative brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service around this time (partly as his solicitor didnt seem to be getting 
anywhere in even getting an acknowledgement from Halifax).
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This covered all of Mr Es statements for this 
account and whether he had a card or not. As it was most likely he didnt, our investigator 
felt Halifax had more  than likely identified Mr E through the card and PIN he held for his 
current account. He told us he hadnt received any statements  from Halifax  for his savings  
account. The evidence  showed these had been  sent. Mr E regularly monitored his current 
account as hed submitted four fraud  claims in the years from 2014  to 2017.  
Our investigator worked  out Mr E was disputing over £32,000 worth of payments from his 
savings account.  The vast majority of these were regular  every three days or so  
withdrawals from the account. The amounts varied greatly from £50 to generally £500.  There 
was also a withdrawal  of £5,400 in 2013. Mr E had had a standing order  set up to make 
payments to his savings  account but hed cancelled this in 2014.
In looking at Mr Es overall  finances,  our investigator thought he was making  these 
withdrawals or transfers to his current account  to help manage his money and spending. He 
felt Mr E had authorised  the transactions so he wouldnt  be asking Halifax  to refund him.
Mr E didnt agree with this outcome. He said hed been a victim of fraud and there  had been  
a court  case  on this. He agreed to provide us with evidence.  This was in November 2019  but 
this service has received  nothing further  from Mr E.
I now have all I need to complete  a final decision on Mr Es complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why. I have also considered  issues  Halifax  
Ref: DRN13406312raised around whether we could consider any disputed transactions  made  more  than 
13 months before Mr E complained.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN  but nothing 
thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here.  So when we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
Halifax raised the issue that they felt these  regulations also said they didnt  need  to refund 
payments when theyd  been notified  of these more than 13 months after the payments were  
made. This is correct.
Our service may decide that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable  to apply that part of the 
regulations if the circumstances of a customer suggest they wouldnt  have  been  in a position  
to know about  the transactions  in dispute before the time they notified their bank.
Id also expect to see something about this in a banks terms and conditions. Halifax 
provided us with copies of their savings accounts  terms  and conditions that apply during the 
time Mr E had a savings  account with them. These state:
Refunds for payments
6.4 (a) If you become  aware of a transaction by way of automated payment or card 
transaction which has not been properly authorised or has been incorrectly  executed on your 
account you must notify us by phoning us (see our contact details). This notification must  be 
provided as soon as you become aware of the error and in any event within 13 months of the 
date the transaction is debited to your account.  If you do not notify us, you will not be entitled 
to a refund under  this condition 6.4.
I have considered this aspect carefully.  Ive taken  into account Mr Es regular monitoring of 
his current account.  He raised fraud  claims four times: in December 2014, March  2015, 
March 2016 and April 2017. This means he knew what  was going into and coming out of that 
account. Ive also seen Halifaxs records which show Mr E was being  sent annual  
statements for his savings account. He also took the decision in 2014 to stop the standing 
order which suggests he knew  the status of the account and the money  he needed for his 
use.
Having considered all this I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say Mr E can 
complain about  all the transactions he disputes. He first called Halifax on 30 June 2016. I will 
be applying  the 13 month rule and this means I can only considering transactions  made after 
30 May 2015 on his savings  account.  
Looking at the detailed transactions in our investigators view,  this means the only two 
transactions I can consider are those  cash  withdrawals of £50 apiece made on 23 and 
25 January 2016.  
I appreciate Mr E will think  this is unfair.  However  I have also reviewed all the transactions  
as I need to get a complete pictured to reach  a decision. My outcome would always  be the 
same as our investigator.
Ref: DRN13406313Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 7 November 2019. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
Mr E clearly  monitored his current account.  He cancelled regular payments from that 
account that had been  made  to his savings account.
He made  four fraud  claims  in four years.  Some of the money involved was relatively  
substantial. He was repaid those amounts. He must have been paying attention to 
his account to have done that.
Payments from Mr Es savings account were  made to his current account. These 
often happened  as the money in his current  account dipped and covered a potential  
overdraft.
The cash  withdrawals made from Mr Es savings account  were always done  in 
branch. Only three different  branches  were used  over a four year period. These were 
close to Mr Es home.
The evidence shows Mr E didnt  have a card for his savings account. But he did have 
a card which he used  for his current account. When withdrawals from the savings 
account were made in branch  as they were  a form of identification  would have 
been needed. I think its very likely  Mr E used his card for his current  account  as a 
way of providing appropriate ID for the savings account cash  withdrawals.
Mr E has told us he knew where his card was. I can also see he reported it lost more 
than once or twice.  So that backs that up as well.
At the time Mr E was generally not working and receiving benefits for most of this 
period. So it wouldnt  be surprising he needed  to supplement  the money in his 
current account.
Its also very likely  he was withdrawing cash to help him over this period.
I appreciate Mr Es very strong  belief  he didnt make these transactions.  Ive also seen 
testimony from his solicitor which attests  to Mr Es honesty. But the clear  evidence we have 
from Halifax doesnt match up with what Mr Es telling us.
I have considered whether Mr E is a vulnerable  customer but he disputes this. Weve been 
told he has family and friends  in his life and theres no obvious carer. This limits the chance 
hes been financially  abused  which  I was also considering.
To state  the obvious, I cant be exactly sure why Mr E believes he didnt make  these 
transactions. I dont  know him personally  nor am I aware  of the issues he may be dealing  
with on a daily basis. However none  of the evidence suggests anything other than Mr E 
made these  transactions himself.
Taking all the circumstances of the case into consideration I wont  be asking Halifax  to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Es complaint against 
Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax.
Ref: DRN13406314Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1340631