K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint where I set out a detailed background to the 
case. The provisional decision is attached as an appendix to this decision and forms part of 
my final decision.
As I was reaching different conclusions to the adjudicator, I gave both parties  the opportunity 
to provide further comments  and evidence before I issued a final decision.
Mrs B responded to say she accepted my provisional conclusions but QuickQuid disagreed.  
In summary  it said without a review  of Mrs Bs financial position at the time of each loan, it 
didnt agree that a fair determination could be made about whether  Mrs B could afford the 
loans.
my findings
Ive again reconsidered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QuickQuid will know from this services approach and previous final decisions that the 
question of whether  it responsibly lent loans to consumers isnt considered strictly on 
whether the consumer could afford  to repay  on a pounds  and pence calculation only. 
QuickQuid will know that this service  sometimes also considers the lending  pattern as well to 
see if it ought to have realised that the lending had become unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful.
And so in my provisional decision I explained  that:
Given this history, QuickQuid ought  to have been  aware that Mrs B was unlikely to 
sustainably repay  subsequent  loans  as shed struggled to repay her previous loan. And so 
it shouldnt have lent her loans 4 and 5.
I think the problems  Mrs B had when  repaying loans 2 and 3 suggests  that she was in 
financial difficulty and couldnt  sustainably afford  the loans.  Given that history,  I dont think it 
was responsible for QuickQuid to continue lending to her in those circumstances. And by the 
time of loan 4, Mrs B has been  borrowing from QuickQuid for more  than 7 months without 
significant breaks. 
QuickQuid ought  to have realised that her level of indebtedness  was increasing and that she 
couldnt sustainably  repay the loans. 
In relation to loan 8, I reviewed the information Mrs B provided and there was sufficient 
information for me to understand what her circumstances were at the time of this loan. And 
this led me to think that sufficient checks would likely have shown QuickQuid that the loan 
was unaffordable.  This is one of the reasons I issued a provisional decision  in the interest  of 
natural justice giving both parties the opportunity to provide comments  as my findings were  
different to those of the adjudicator.
Ref: DRN17245542QuickQuid hasnt provided any further  information  to show that it carried out what  I consider 
to be sufficient checks, or that if it had carried out sufficient checks, they wouldve shown 
that Mrs B could afford  loan 8. On the contrary, had it carried out sufficient checks before 
lending this loan,  based on what I have seen,  I think its likely to have found that she couldnt 
afford this loan.
Mrs B had also established a pattern of repeated borrowing  by loan 9 that suggest she was 
reliant on these loans.
And as Mrs B has lost out as a result of QuickQuid lending her loans  when it shouldnt  have, 
it needs to put things  right.
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs B paid on loans 4, 5, 8 and 9;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 8 from Mrs Bs credit file;
remove all entries about  loans 4, 5 and 9 from Mrs Bs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest.  QuickQuid must give 
Mrs B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, Im partially upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. CashEuroNet UK LLC should  pay Mrs B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17245543appendix
extract from provisional decision
background
This complaint is about eight payday  loans and one flex credit account provided to Mrs B 
between February 2010 and May 2014. Ive provided  some  of the loan information in the table 
below.
loan 
number date started loan amount date ended
1 09/02/2010 £400 19/03/2010
2 27/10/2010 £600 20/04/2011
3 23/08/2011 £350 20/01/2012
4 29/02/2012 £400 20/08/2012
5 21/08/2012 £300 21/11/2012
6 22/10/2013 £1,150 21/11/2013
7 25/11/2013 £800 21/02/2014
8 25/02/2014 £500 21/05/2014
9 22/05/2014 £750 20/02/2015
Loan 9 was a flex credit account where Mrs B could  drawdown up to a maximum of £750 to be 
repaid typically in ten monthly instalments. According  to the hypothetical repayment schedule in the 
loan agreement, the highest  repayment was around £253.
QuickQuid in its initial  response to this complaint told this service that Mrs B had raised her 
complaint about loans 1 to 3 too late and on that basis, this service didnt have the authority to 
consider these. Mrs B has since withdrawn her complaint about  loans 1 to 3. However, Ive still 
included them  in the table above, because although Mrs B has withdrawn her complaint about 
those loans, they form part of her borrowing history with QuickQuid.
Our adjudicator looked at loans 4 and the subsequent loans and recommended  that loan 9 should be 
upheld, because she thought that Mrs B had established a pattern  of borrowing at this point showed  
she wasnt using the loan for its intended purpose, and so QuickQuid  shouldnt have lent it to her. 
Our adjudicator didnt think QuickQuid wrongly lent the other loans to Mrs B.
QuickQuid disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me
 an ombudsman for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about  
short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint in part and have explained  why below.  QuickQuid needed  to 
take reasonable  steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs B could repay her loans in a sustainable manner.
Ref: DRN17245544These checks could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much was being 
lent, the repayment  amounts  and Mrs Bs income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  done more  
to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the consumer. These would include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion  of 
their income
the amount, or amounts,  due to be repaid are higher
there is a larger number  and/or frequency of loans
the period of time during which  a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there are three key questions for me to consider in order to 
fairly and reasonably determine Mrs Bs complaint. These questions are:
1.  did QuickQuid,  each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy 
itself that Mrs B would be able to repay in a sustainable way?  If not, would those  checks 
have shown that Mrs B would  have been able to do so?
2.  taking into account  the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Mrs Bs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful?
3.  did QuickQuid  act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about  all of these questions and what they mean for Mrs Bs complaint.
did QuickQuid , each time it lent, complete reasonable  and proportionate  checks  to satisfy itself 
that Mrs B would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those checks have shown 
that Mrs B would have  been able to do so?
loans 6 to 8
There was a significant break  before Mrs B was lent loan 6. I think this break was significant enough 
to break  the lending chain.  This was Mrs Bs first loan in this chain  but she was borrowing more  than 
any of her previous loans,  it wouldve been  reasonable  for QuickQuid to take its checks  further. 
QuickQuid said it searched Mrs Bs credit file before approving this loan and I can see from the 
credit file Mrs B provided that she had an active default recorded  on her file from July 2013. I think  
QuickQuids search of her credit file at this time would  likely have shown  this. It shouldve wanted to 
complete a full review of her financial circumstances including verifying  some of the information.
I can see that within days  of repaying loan 6, Mrs B applied for loan 7. I think she continued to 
borrow from loan 7 onwards because the repayment of previous loans  left a hole in her finances that 
she needed  to borrow again  quickly to fill. This is something QuickQuid shouldve been concerned 
about so before continuing  to lend loans 7 and 8, shouldve been carrying  out a detailed  review of 
her finances  including verifying some of the information.
Mrs B hasnt  been able to provide information about her circumstances at the time of loan 6 and 7 
and so Im unable to safely conclude that QuickQuid lent to her when she was unable to afford it.
Ref: DRN17245545However, Mrs B has provided information about her circumstances around the time of loan 8 and 
from what Ive seen,  it seems her income was around £2,000 on average and her living costs 
including regular financial  commitments were around £2,035. This suggests that Mrs B was unable to 
sustainably repay this loan.
So I intend to uphold Mrs Bs complaint about loans  8 because I dont think  that QuickQuid carried 
out reasonable  and proportionate  checks and such checks wouldve  more likely than not shown 
QuickQuid that Mrs B couldnt sustainably repay these loans.
I havent recreated individual,  proportionate affordability  checks  for loans 4, 5 and 9 because  I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why this is the case in the next section.
taking into account  the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall patter n of lending 
increase Mrs Bs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful?
Ive looked at the overall pattern of lending to see if there was a point at which  QuickQuid should  
reasonably have seen that further lending  was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  And so 
QuickQuid should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further lending. Given  the 
particular circumstances of Mrs Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4 in the first 
chain and loan 9 in the second chain. I say this because Mrs B was demonstrating  repayment 
difficulties from loan 2. I can see that Mrs B rolled  over loan 2 four times before repaying  it, and 
when she borrowed loan 3, she also rolled it over three times before repaying it, and then incurred  a 
late payment  fee.
Given this history, QuickQuid ought to have been aware  that Mrs B was unlikely to sustainably repay  
subsequent loans as shed struggled  to repay her previous loan. And so it shouldnt have lent her 
loans 4 and 5.
By the time QuickQuid lent Mrs B loan 9, shed been borrowing continuously  for around seven 
months without any significant breaks in the lending.  And so Mrs B wasnt making  any real inroads to 
the amount she owed lender, and was in effect paying large amounts of interest to service this debt 
over an extended period.  By the time she repaid loan 9, shed had continuous borrowing  from 
QuickQuid for around 15 months.
I think the need for her to borrow  again  so quickly after repaying a loan and for that period of time 
suggest that she wasnt using the loans  for their intended purpose of short term cash flow but was 
likely using the loans  to substitute her income. This wasnt a sustainable  position and something 
QuickQuid itself says its loans arent designed for.
QuickQuid lent Mrs B loans  4, 5 and 9 and she lost out because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Bs indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit  over an extended period of time,
the number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mrs Bs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint  about loans 4, 5 and 9 because  the overall  pattern of lending  
increased her indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful and she lost 
out as a result.
did QuickQuid  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about  everything provided. Having  done  so, Ive not seen anything here that 
leads me to conclude QuickQuid acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mrs B in some other way.
end of extract
Ref: DRN1724554