K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has increased  the minimum 
monthly payment  on her credit card despite  her telling it she couldnt  afford  it.
background
On 20 September  2018 Halifax wrote to Miss W to say shed paid more in interest,  fees and 
charges on her credit card than the amount  shed  paid off the balance.  It said if she 
continued to do this over the next 18 months it could stop her using her card. And it might  
need her to increase her monthly payments. It said it would give her at least 30 days  notice if 
it decided to do that.
It then wrote to her on 17 January 2019 to say it was increasing  her minimum payment from 
27 February 2019 onwards. It said if she thought this was going to make her financial 
situation difficult she should call to discuss (her) situation and explore (her) options. It said 
if she didnt want to pay this increase she could  close her account.  If she did that she 
wouldnt be able to use her card but she would be able to make at least her current minimum 
payment until her balance  was cleared.  It said if it didnt hear from her by 26 February 2019 
it would  take that to mean shed accepted the change.
Miss W contacted Halifax to complain. She said she wouldnt be able to pay the increased 
monthly repayments. She wanted Halifax to reduce its interest and charges  to help her pay 
off more of the balance.  
On 1 February 2019 Halifax replied to Miss W. It said it wouldnt uphold  her complaint, it 
referred her to the new regulations put in place by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) 
and it referred her to her options outlined in its letter of 17 January 2019. It also suggested 
she should contact  its Money Management team.
The adjudicator didnt think Halifax had done  anything  wrong.  She could see Miss W had 
until 26 February 2019 to opt out of the change and she hadnt done so. And although Miss 
W said she thought if she closed the account  she would immediately have to pay the full 
amount of the balance back,  the adjudicator could see that Halifax had explained this wasnt  
the case.
Miss W said her letter of complaint to Halifax shouldve  been seen as her objecting  to the 
increase. She said she explained this when she telephoned the bank on 4 February 2019 
but the advisor was more concerned with justifying the increase and not discussing her 
options. And she said the final response  letter from Halifax  (dated 1 February 2019) didnt 
explain that closing  her account  didnt  mean  repaying the total balance. She said she was 
more than happy to cancel the card immediately if Halifax would agree that she could 
continue to pay the previous minimum repayment.  
Ref: DRN14559262my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the phone call when  Miss W phoned  Halifax after received  its final response 
letter. I can hear that Miss W expressed her concerns that she couldnt meet the new 
minimum monthly repayment. The operator said the decision to increase  them  wasnt a bank 
error and explained why. He explained  there were more options in the letter itd sent her. But 
he said the bank  couldnt uphold her complaint  and he said he was only dealing  with her 
complaint. And he said that even though the increase wasnt  a bank error there were other 
avenues Miss W could  pursue. But she needed  to speak to the correct department.
So Im satisfied it was clear from that phone call Miss W was objecting to the increase in the 
monthly minimum repayments. But I think it was also clear that the operator was only dealing 
with her formal complaint.  He explained  that if she couldnt afford the increase she needed to 
speak to another department to follow one of the alternative options.  Miss W ended  the 
phone call by saying  she thought she was being fobbed  off and was going to take this up 
with this Service.    
But as the letters and the phone call explained, it wasnt enough  just to object to the 
increase. Miss W had to make a decision about what  she wanted to do. And it said she had 
until 26 February 2019 to make that decision.  
I know she wont agree with me but I think Halifax gave her full details  of her options. It said 
she could speak to its team  of advisers,  or she could speak to a free independent service. 
And it said she could close her account  and continue to make  her current minimum payment 
until the balance  was cleared. And I think it gave  her enough  time, even after her phone  call 
on 4 February, to explain to Halifax what she wanted to do.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.
Linda Freestone 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1455926