K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Scottish Widows Limited didnt  notify her that a tax rebate of 
approximately £9,000 had been paid to her. As a result of this, she incurred a tax liability that 
she wasnt expecting.
background
The background to this decision  was set out in my provisional decision of 8 June 2020. The 
provisional decision is attached at the end of this decision  and forms part of my final 
decision.
Following my provisional decision, Scottish Widows said it didnt  have any further 
substantive comments  to make. 
Ms M responded with her thoughts after receiving the provisional decision,  Ive summarised 
these below:
HMRC didnt issue a tax code or tax update to Scottish Widows that tax year. Nor did 
they 'tell' Scottish Widows  to issue a refund that year. This is consistent with the 
information provided by Scottish  Widows that they used the same tax rate.
Ms M therefore questions  the conclusion that 'as Scottish  Widows  is reliant  on HMRC for 
its tax information, I don't  think  it is responsible  for the rebate error.'
Had Scottish Widows  notified her of the payment she would have  had three weeks to 
question it with HMRC or her IFA  at the very least  giving her the chance to ring-fence 
the funds.
Scottish Widows  did not do this and hasnt given  a satisfactory explanation other than to  
blame HMRC. Ms M also says that verbally  Scottish Widows has admitted it would be 
much better practice to write  to customers whenever money is sent to them but their 
'system' isnt able to do this.
Ms M says the result of this is she no longer trusts her money with Scottish Widows.  She 
feels very let down as a long-standing customer of it. In the absence of any recognition 
of it being at or credible explanation, she has decided  to remove her funds.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The points that Ms M has raised following my decision, in my view can be categorised  into 
two distinct areas. Ill give my thoughts on these points separately with reference  to my 
provisional decision.
The rebate error, is Scottish Widows responsible?
I understand the point that Ms M is making,  HMRC has told her it didnt change her tax code 
in relation to the rebate  error. And Scottish Widows  has confirmed the same tax code was in 
Ref: DRN19151382use for the payments. So if thats the case how can it be anything other than Scottish  
Widows fault?
As I said in my provisional decision,  Scottish Widows says to calculate the tax due on ad hoc 
and regular payments  it runs the payment details through  a calculator provided by HMRC. 
This is so it can take tax at source. This is in line with what we know  about how pension 
taxation works across  the industry. And additionally,  that the tax codes  used by pension 
providers when making payments are provided by HMRC as Scottish  Widows  has confirmed 
here.
Clearly something went wrong in this instance, as a rebate was generated that wasnt due. 
But if this was a problem particular to Scottish  Widows and the systems it has in place, I 
wouldve expected  them to say so. And its explanation of events  fits with what we know  
about how pension  providers tax at source.  I am aware of other  cases, where a rebate has 
been generated that wasnt due and this was only rectified later when  the customer  was 
contacted by HMRC,  much like here. I could only speculate as to what happened or as to the 
effectiveness of the systems put in place. But the key point  is Ive not seen  any evidence to 
suggest that Scottish Widows did anything wrong  in its processing of the payments in 
question. It processed  its payments using a tax code supplied  by HMRC and it followed its 
usual process in using the HMRC calculator to see if a rebate was due.
Ultimately I cant  be sure what happened, but I do think  on the balance of probabilities and 
considering the above that its seems  more likely the error occurred due to something  within  
HMRCs scope rather than anything Scottish Widows did. Pension providers are reliant on 
the information they are given by HMRC,  they are not required to, nor do they have, 
oversight of a customers current tax position.  
The lack of notification  of the rebate and Ms Ms unhappiness with Scottish Widows
Ms M says had Scottish Widows told her about the rebate she wouldve been able to try to 
mitigate the issue. But I dont think three weeks would likely have been enough time to sort 
out this issue  with HMRC  prior to receiving  her end of year tax statement.
If Ms M had been informed in that time that the rebate  was an error,  she wouldve still had to 
repay it, as she had to do in reality. I understand she couldve  ringfenced  this money  if she 
had known it was an error  but as discussed prior, she didnt have any difficulty in repaying  
the money in any event.
Scottish Widows  has told us that its policy was not to send notification of rebates, and its 
expectation was that customer would notice  the rebate. I agree with Ms M here that the onus 
shouldnt be on her in this situation. Had the circumstances been different here, I may have 
decided that Scottish  Widows needed to do something to put things right but I have to 
consider the impact of an error if Im to make  any award. 
I discussed this point in detail in the provisional decision so I wont  repeat it here in the same 
length but I dont think  Scottish Widows non-notification of the rebate  changed  Ms Ms 
position financially  or materially disadvantaged  in a way that needs to be compensated. 
Ms M said she was told by a member  of staff that the issue Scottish Widows had here was 
one of a system not designed  for this situation. That does  seem to ring true considering the 
circumstances. And Id not disagree with the further remarks made by Scottish Widows 
member of staff that Ms M has told us about. 
Ref: DRN19151383The onus shouldnt  have  been on Ms M to find out about the rebate, I can understand her 
irritation about what happened and that its a matter of principle for her. But in this situation 
the result  hasnt been to financially or materially disadvantage Ms M. The result has instead 
been that Ms M has lost trust in Scottish  Widows.
Ms M has told us she has taken her own action  to remove her money from Scottish  Widows 
due to her annoyance about the lack of notification. And what  she feels has been an 
unsatisfactory response to her complaint. This caused a loss of confidence in Scottish 
Widows ability to handle her money  and Ms M has taken the action she deems  appropriate. 
I think thats ultimately the conclusion to this matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not require Scottish Widows Limited to do anything  to 
put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2020.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19151384provisional decision
complaint
Ms M complains that Scottish Widows Limited didnt notify her that a tax rebate of approximately 
£9,000 had been paid to her. As a result of this, she incurred  a tax liability  that she wasnt expecting.
background
Ms M has an income drawdown plan with Scottish Widows. In March 2017, Ms Ms Independent 
Financial Adviser  (IFA) setup regular annual  income  payments of £100.00. No tax was due and the 
tax code used was 1100L. A letter  was sent confirming that the regular annual  payment had been 
setup.
In late June 2017 Ms Ms IFA contacted Scottish Widows  to request an ad hoc payment  of £50,000. A 
few days  later Scottish Widows processed this payment. It says the tax code used was 1150L  as 
provided by HMRC and approximately  £17,000 was deducted at source. Scottish  Widows sent a letter 
confirming this to Ms M.
In March 2018  the next regular £100 income  payment  was due. Scottish Widows say that the tax 
code supplied  was 1150L. And based  on this tax code, using the HMRC tax calculator a refund  of 
£8,918.90 was generated. This was added  to the £100 income payment and a payment of £9,018.90 
was made to Ms Ms designated account. As per Scottish Widows process for regular payments, no 
written confirmation was sent.
In January 2019 Ms M raised a complaint with Scottish Widows. In summary she was unhappy that it 
hadnt notified  her of this rebate. Shed not noticed the money coming in and when she became  
aware that this rebate had been made in error, it left her with a tax liability  with HMRC.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt  think it should be upheld. She said in summary:
Scottish Widows  had followed its usual process, which is that letters  of confirmation arent  sent 
for regular  payments  even  if this include tax rebates
There isnt any regulatory requirement  on it to send confirmation of tax rebates
The mistake was made by HMRC not Scottish Widows
She recognises it wouldve been helpful for Scottish Widows to have contacted  Ms M but it didnt 
have to
The payment was made into an account that it was reasonable to believe  Ms M had regular 
access to and that she would  see this payment
The tax liability wouldve  remained whether or not Scottish Widows made  Ms M aware
Ms M hasnt said that it caused her a financial  loss or financial difficulty
Ms M was unhappy  with this and requested  for an ombudsman to look at the case. Ms M has made a 
number of points as part of her complaint and in response to the investigators view which  Ill cover in 
my findings.  But with regards to the impact  Scottish  Widows failure to inform  her had, shes told us:
Because the rebate  was paid so late in the tax year and she wasnt informed  it left her no 
opportunity to correct  the error  with HMRC before the end of the tax year
The money was paid into an account that sweeps  into her current  account. And she had 
spent the money by the time she became aware of the unexpected tax liability.
To settle the tax liability  Ms M had to move her finances  around and this caused 
administrative inconvenience to her.
Ms M also questioned  what evidence had been relied  upon and what information we had to say that 
HMRC had told Scottish Widows to pay the rebate to her and into that particular  account.
Ref: DRN19151385my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go on to discuss  the merits of this complaint,  I think  its important to explain  the role of this 
service and the approach  we take to looking  at cases. We are an informal dispute resolution service 
and whilst we take account  of the law, industry legislation  and best practice, ultimately our decisions 
are based on a test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of the case.  Each 
case is decided on its own merits.
Ms M has, as is her right,  asked a lot of questions  and raised a number of points relating to this 
complaint. She quite reasonably wants to understand whats occurred and has questioned both 
Scottish Widows  view of events and the investigators. Ms M has also questioned the level of 
evidence we have received in order to make the conclusions reached by our investigator. We are an 
informal dispute resolution service, where  information is incomplete, unavailable or deemed 
unnecessary to reach our conclusions,  we can work on the balance of probabilities and/or the 
knowledge we already  have  of that particular  issue. And it is for us to request extra  information  if we 
think it is required. 
Whilst we will try to answer all the questions  raised, this is not always practical. And my role as an 
ombudsman is to decide  what  I think is relevant  to my decision. So I dont mean it as a dis-service to 
Ms M that I wont refer to all the points that shes made in her submissions to us. 
Ms M has questioned  whether the investigator has understood the crux of the complaint. And I do 
think the investigators initial  view focused too much on Scottish Widows procedures and what it is 
required to do, rather than its actions and what was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.  
However, further information  and clarification of her view was provided after Ms M responded.
Ms M has said she wasnt initially seeking compensation and just wanted  an apology and recognition  
that Scottish Widows had made an error.  It does seem this is more a matter of principle for Ms M but 
its clear she also wants to understand whats occurred  and I will endeavour to explain my 
understanding of what happened clearly. I appreciate  that Ms M would  like to see proof and evidence 
backing up every explanation made about her situation. But ultimately my role is to decide  whether  
Scottish Widows  needs  to do anything to put things right. And, its my view that we already have 
enough information and evidence  to decide  this.
Whilst Scottish Widows  has told us that its normal  procedure doesnt include written confirmation 
once regular payments are in force, I dont  think this fully addresses  the situation. The issue occurred 
because a rebate was added to this regular payment. I understand that this rebate was only 
generated because a regular  payment was due and therefore a tax calculation  was run using 
information supplied  by HMRC. But seemingly there is nothing  in place at Scottish  Widows to amend 
the normal  process  when its payroll see that an additional payment  of a rebate is due.
Scottish Widows  point  (although later retracted) and seemingly why there is no process  in place  is 
that it is a reasonable assumption to think that customers would notice a change  in the regular income 
received. I think this is especially true in this case with there being  such  a disparity  between  the 
normal payment amount and the rebate amount. Whilst Ms M has explained  why she didnt realise 
and I dont doubt what she has said, this was the same account that Scottish  Widows  had been 
instructed to make the regular  payments into. I think its also fair to say that Scottish Widows (and 
other businesses) may be relying on HMRC to make  customers aware of tax rebates.
But I think Ms M makes a very strong point in that it doesnt seem right that the onus on finding  out 
what this payment was for, was put on her. And considering the size of the rebate here and the fact 
the rebate related to a payment made approximately  eight months earlier, I do think  it wouldve been 
good customer service  to notify Ms M of this and explain  what it was for. Whilst  Scottish  Widows may 
not be required to tell customers about rebate payments, it also has a requirement  to act in its 
Ref: DRN19151386customers best interests. And Id suggest in this particular  situation, it would  be acting in its 
customers best interests to inform them of why such a large discrepancy in payment had occurred. 
So I have some sympathy here with Ms Ms position. However, its not for me to tell Scottish  Widows 
how it should carry out its administration. And Im not here to make wider findings  beyond  this case. 
So, I need to consider what, if any, impact Scottish Widows actions or inaction  in this case  had on Ms 
M.
This complaint is about  the actions of Scottish Widows but as it relates to taxation it involves HMRC. 
Ultimately HMRC are responsible for the taxation of pensions and it is the expert and authority  here. 
As HMRC are not within our jurisdiction, its not for us to investigate its actions.  Whilst  we can obtain 
evidence from third parties, we can also use the knowledge that we already have. And from what  we 
already know  about pension taxation, HMRC sends automatic tax code updates to pension providers.  
And Scottish Widows has confirmed this is what happened here, so I dont think it is necessary  to 
pursue evidence  of this. This allows providers  to take tax at source  and pay customers their funds net 
of tax. Scottish Widows,  like other providers,  is reliant on the information it is provided by HMRC to 
calculate the tax due.
Unfortunately for Ms M it seems something went wrong, as there is no dispute  that the rebate was 
paid in error. Im aware of other instances where the automated tax-code system  has produced errors 
and to me it seems  the most plausible  explanation  for what happened here. But Ms M will have to 
approach HMRC to find out whether this is the case.
But as Scottish Widows  is reliant on HMRC for its tax information, I dont think  it is responsible for the 
rebate error.  And its important to note that Scottish Widows wouldnt have known that the rebate was 
an error. Im also aware that its common industry practice when a rebate (calculated using information 
provided by HMRC) is due following an income  demand that this is to be paid directly  to the customer 
as part of the income payment. So based on what we know  about  the taxation process and the 
evidence provided, I dont think  Scottish Widows  is responsible for the rebate error.
So whilst I dont think Scottish  Widows  was responsible for the error, as I said previously I do think it 
wouldve been  good customer service to have told Ms M about the rebate payment in these particular 
circumstances. And Ive thought about  what difference it wouldve made  to Ms M if theyd been 
proactive in contacting her about the rebate.
Ms M doesnt  dispute that even if it had told her, she wouldve still had to pay back the arrears with 
HMRC. But shes said she couldve mitigated her circumstances. However, the payment was made  
on 16 March which is just under three weeks before the end of the tax year.  So I dont think its likely  
Ms M couldve mitigated her tax position within such a short timescale involved,  and shes told us she 
was already a higher  tax rate payer  at this point in any event.
I appreciate that Ms M said shed  spent the rebate  by the time she was made aware of the tax liability. 
But Ms Ms been fair and honest in telling  us that shes had no financial difficulty  in repaying this sum 
nor has she incurred  any additional financial  costs. So I dont think not being notified has changed  her 
position in a material way that requires compensating. I recognise there wouldve  been some 
administrative inconvenience but I think had this been anything substantial  Ms M wouldve  gone into 
more detail  about this. And I think its only fair to take into account, in considering Scottish Widows 
part in this, that its unlikely that they were responsible for the rebate error. Alongside  the fact that had 
Scottish Widows  told Ms M about the rebate payment, some administrative inconvenience in sorting  
out the rebate error wouldve  still occurred.
So whilst I do think Scottish Widows shouldve  provided  a better service  to Ms M in relation to the 
rebate payment. I do think there are mitigating factors to how much  responsibility or importance can 
be placed on it not doing so. Scottish Widows wouldnt have known whether  the rebate was an error 
and its not responsible for this error. And most importantly  in terms of what Ive got to decide, on the 
evidence provided, Ive seen nothing to suggest the non-notification caused any financial loss to Ms 
M. Our role is to put customers back into the position they wouldve been had the error not occurred. 
Ref: DRN19151387But I dont think Ms Ms position has been materially changed  and therefore there isnt anything for 
Scottish Widows  to put right. Its not part of my role to tell Scottish Widows to change  its procedures,  
that is the role of the regulator.
So it follows that Im currently  minded  to say that Scottish Widows doesnt need to do anything  to put 
things right and I do not uphold  Ms Ms complaint. I know that Ms M will be disappointed with this but I 
dont think there are grounds to make an award for the reasons explained.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im currently not minded  to uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN1915138