K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that The Funding Corporation Limited (TFC) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance with a loan. 
Mr N also complains that TFC has been adding interest to a judgment debt in relation  to that 
loan.
background 
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision which I issued in 
October 2019. That decision is attached here and forms part of my final decision. I invited 
both parties to comment on my provisional decision,  and to provide any further comments or 
evidence they wished me to consider before  making  my final decision. 
Mr Ns representative accepted my findings in full. She confirmed  that Mr N hadnt received 
any notices about  interest  charges from TFC and that Mr N continued to make  payments to 
TFC from July 2009.
Mr Ns representative also explained  that TFC obtained a charge against  Mr Ns property. 
When Mr N came to sell his property  the entire outstanding debt was paid off, including  the 
interest charges.
TFC did not object to the principle of my decision, although it disputed the redress I 
provisionally directed.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While TFC did not make any representations on the substance of my provisional decision it 
did object to the award of 8% statutory interest  on the compensation award.  It said this 
service had taken too long to make a final decision which increased their costs.  TFC also 
pointed out that the original court judgement included costs of £153 which I did not include in 
the sum owed by Mr N. I accept TFCs  point  in relation to the costs.
While I note that it has taken longer than I would like resolve this case, I do not accept that 
TFC should avoid paying statutory interest  to Mr N on the sum owing to him. The object of 
the redress is to put Mr N back in the position he would have been if TFC had dealt with him 
fairly and reasonably in the first place. I am satisfied that the inclusion of statutory interest is 
fair and reasonable in this case.  
As Mr N has accepted my provisional findings  and TFC has provided  no comment on the 
substance of my findings I am satisfied there  is no reason  to depart from my provisional 
decision to uphold Mr Ns complaint about the interest charged and not to uphold  Mr Ns 
complaint about  the sale of the PPI. 
I have considered how the sale of Mr Ns property affects the redress  that should be paid to 
him. I do not think it makes a difference that the debt has now been  paid in full, but for clarity 
I have set out below how the redress should be paid to Mr N in light of this information.
Ref: DRN11384962putting things right
Rework Mr Ns account to 1 July 2009  (the date of the CCJ), removing all additional 
interest charges  from that point onwards and applying any payments made by Mr N 
to the £2,432.29;
Remove any legal or other fees applied to the account from 1 July 2009;
If  - when TFC works out what Mr N paid since  1 July 2009  Mr N paid more than 
£2,432.29, then TFC must refund the excess and pay Mr N 8% simple  interest per 
year on the amount Mr N paid in excess of the CCJ sum, from the point at which  he 
paid it until the point at which he gets it back.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  TFC to take off tax from this interest. TFC must give Mr N a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I am not upholding  Mr Ns complaint about how the PPI policy was sold, but I am upholding 
Mr Ns complaint about the post-judgement interest  that was charged on the debt related to 
the loan taken in 2005.
The Funding Corporation  Limited must pay compensation as I have detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11384963Provisional decision
complaint
Mr N complains that The Funding Corporation Limited (TFC) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance with a loan. 
Mr N also complains that TFC has been  adding interest to a judgment debt in relation to that loan.
background
Mr N took out a loan with TFC in 2005. At the same  time he was sold a PPI policy which wouldve 
covered his repayments  for up to a year at a time if he couldnt  work due to an accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment.
Mr N says that the cost,  benefits  and terms werent fully explained to him.
Mr N defaulted on the loan repayments and TFC obtained a county court judgement (CCJ) against 
Mr N. It later applied  for, and was granted, a charging order  for the debt.
Mr N says that TFC has been incorrectly continuing to add interest to the charging order debt.
The adjudicator didnt think that Mr Ns complaint  about the sale of the PPI should  be upheld.  And 
they thought that this service  couldnt  look into the issue of the charging  of post-judgment interest.
Mr N disagreed, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
First of all, I shall look at the complaint about the potential mis-sale of the PPI policy. Weve  set out 
our general  approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when  
deciding this element of the complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this part. Ill explain why Ive 
reached this decision.
Mr N says that he thinks he was sold the PPI in a telephone call after the loan was taken  out. But TFC 
has provided  a copy of his credit agreement and separate PPI application and they are both signed 
on the same  day, so I think its likely the two sales occurred together. 
Mr N was offered a single premium PPI policy  with his loan, but he declined this. Instead,  he opted for 
a regular  premium policy and he filled out a separate application form for it. TFC has provided  a copy 
of this, as well as the credit  agreement where  Mr N doesnt accept  the single  premium policy. Im 
satisfied that these show that the policy  was optional  and that Mr N made an active decision to buy it. 
Its not clear whether TFC made  a personal recommendation to Mr N about  the PPI. If it did, then TFC 
also had responsibility to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for him. Because  theres 
some doubt about whether  TFC recommended the policy Ive worked on the basis that it did  as this 
holds TFC to a higher  standard.
Looking at Mr Ns circumstances  at the time I think any recommendation wouldve been suitable for 
him. I say this because:
Ref: DRN11384964Mr N was eligible for the policy and wouldnt  have been affected by any of the terms which 
mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such  as those  related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr N had some  sick pay from his employer.  But if Mr N was off work sick for an extended 
period the policy  wouldve  paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer  for up to 12 
month at a time;
Similarly, if Mr N had been made redundant the policy  wouldve paid out in addition to any 
redundancy pay he received, leaving any redundancy pay to cover other uninsured expenses;
The cost of the policy  was comparable  to other similar policies on the market  offering the 
same benefits.  It was a regular premium  policy, paid monthly, which  could have been 
cancelled at any time without a financial  penalty.  
TFC also had to make sure it gave Mr N all the information he needed about  the policy. Mr N says 
that the information  he was given wasnt  good enough. Its possible that this was the case   although I 
cant know for certain. But even if Mr N had all the information  he needed I dont think  hed have 
changed his mind  and not bought the policy, because it was suitable for him in the way Ive already 
described. 
So, on balance,  I dont think Mr N lost out as a result of anything TFC did wrong  in relation to the sale 
of the PPI. That means I dont think TFC needs to pay Mr N any compensation for this. 
Ill turn now to Mr Ns second  complaint,  regarding the adding of interest after the charging order was 
made in court.
Can I consider  this complaint?
I am satisfied  that this complaint falls within  the jurisdiction of this service  as outlined  in the relevant  
rules in the DISP  section  of the Financial Conduct Authority  Handbook. Its a complaint about  a 
regulated business, carrying out a regulated activity which has been brought  to this service  within the 
relevant timescales. 
This service is not reconsidering the amount of Mr Ns original debt, which was decided  by the court.  I 
am considering matters which have  arisen  since the charging order was made, namely the way TFC 
has managed Mr Ns debt since the charging order was made, and whether it was entitled to add 
post-judgment interest to Mr Ns debt.
Background 
Mr N defaulted on the loan repayments. TFC sent a default notice to Mr N in April 2009 and obtained 
a County Court Judgment (CCJ) for the outstanding sum in July 2009.  TFC obtained a charging 
order  a charge over Mr Ns property  for the sum owed  in September  2009.
Mr N continued to make  erratic payments towards the debt over the years. Mr N says that he didnt 
receive any statements  from TFC telling  him how much  he owed. Mr N made  no payments towards  
the outstanding debt between October 2010 and January 2014.
In early 2014 Mr N made a complaint to TFC about the sale of the PPI. TFC rejected his complaint  in 
June 2014 and in Mr Ns response to TFC he again asked for details about  the outstanding debt. Mr N 
explained that he had, at that point, paid off more  than the original loan plus interest and didnt believe 
that he owed any more. I have seen  a copy of this letter.  
TFC did not respond  substantively to Mr N about the interest and charges. It says it required proof of 
identity and authority for a third party to act on Mr Ns behalf. This was provided  on 11 April 2014.  
Instead of providing the information requested TFC merely spoke to their litigation  department who 
stated that the debt had been passed on to another third party for collection and that the litigation 
department would inform  them of Mr Ns concerns.  
Ref: DRN11384965In November 2014 TFC provided Mr N with a statement of the sums he owed. Mr N queried this 
balance as it was much  lower than the sums that had previously been demanded of him. Even though 
the sum was lower, Mr N still disputed the amount owed. 
TFC did not respond  to address the concerns  Mr N raised in his letters of April and November  2014.  
Nearly two years  later,  in July 2016  Mr N received a letter from a further different third party  debt 
collector explaining  that it was instructed to recover the debt  the amount was much larger  than that 
provided to Mr N by TFC in their statement of November  2014 and the amount  Mr N thought he owed. 
The letter advised that if Mr N was able to agree to a payment plan that interest would be frozen from 
the point of the first payment. 
Mr Ns representative wrote back to the third party again  disputing the amount owed and asking for an 
updated statement taking  into account all payments made and removing  the disputed interest 
charges. 
As Mr N didnt receive a response, this service wrote to TFC about Mr Ns concerns.  TFC responded  
that it would provide a final response within eight  weeks  of Mr Ns letter  to them. This should have 
been provided  by 5 October 2016. I have not seen a copy of this final response, although Mr Ns 
representative reports  that he received some kind of response  from TFC insisting that he still owes 
over £3000.  I have requested a copy of this response   if it exists -  from Mr Ns representative  but I 
have not received it, and it hasnt been provided by TFC as part of their evidence. So I cant be sure 
that Mr N received any formal final response.
Was TFC entitled to charge  interest  on the judgment debt?
My starting point has been to consider whether TFC was entitled to charge ongoing interest after the 
court orders. Looking  at the orders, the CCJ stated interest to date of judgment in the body of the 
order  which implies that ongoing interest wasnt permitted. But then the final charging order a few 
months later referred to any further interest. So the wording of the court  orders is confusing. 
At the bottom  of the CCJ there are notes to say that interest can only be charged if:
i)The judgment debt is for more than £5,000; or,
ii)The debt attracts  contractual or statutory interest.
Mr Ns judgment debt was below £5,000, so (i) doesnt apply. And I dont think (ii) applies either.
The County Courts (Interest on Judgment Debts) Order 1991 (the 1991 order) states  that interest 
cant be charged on a judgment debt in relation to an agreement  regulated by the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (as amended) (CCA). Mr Ns judgment debt was related  to an outstanding  personal  loan 
debt, so it falls into this category. 
But the House of Lords in Director General  of Fair Trading v First National Bank PLC [2001]UKHL 52 
said that charging interest on a CCA judgment debt was nevertheless possible if theres  a term in the 
credit agreement stating that interest can be charged  post-judgment. 
I have reviewed Mr Ns original credit agreement. I note that in section 5 (Key Information) it states:
We may charge  interest at the rate of the APR on all sums  overdue under  this Agreement  see 
clause 7 of the Terms
The numbering on the agreement only goes up to section 6  the signature box. There may be a 
further page  to the agreement but I have not been provided with it. So I cant be satisfied that there 
was any further explanation to Mr N of whether interest would be charged post-judgment, and I cant 
be satisfied  that TFC met the requirements  laid out in the House of Lords judgment.
Ref: DRN11384966However, even if I was wrong about this (and I only have to take into account the relevant law when 
deciding if TFC has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances  of this complaint),  I still dont 
think TFC has acted  properly under the  Consumer  Credit Act 1974, as amended. There  are other 
conditions which also have to be satisfied to allow post-judgment interest to be charged.  These are:
i)The creditor  must send a default notice to the consumer before court  action is taken. If there 
is a term in the credit  agreement allowing interest after judgment then the creditor must 
include a special statement in the default notice saying:
You should be aware that if we take you to court  and get a judgment against you requiring  
you to pay us the money you owe us under the agreement , you may have to pay us both the 
amount of the judgment and the interest under the agreement on all the sums owed by you at 
the date of judgment  until you have paid these in full. This means  that even if you pay off the 
whole amount  of the judgment, you may still have a further sum to pay.
ii)The creditor  must send the consumer  a notice to say they intend to charge interest on the 
judgment. They are not allowed to add interest until they have  sent the first notice.  The notice 
must tell the consumer the outstanding balance  on which interest will be charged. It must  also 
say what  the rate of interest is and what date the interest will run from.
iii)All the notices must  tell the consumer  that they can ask the court to change  the interest rate 
and the instalments the consumer should pay.
iv)The creditor  has to send a new notice every six months if they want to keep charging interest. 
The notice must tell the consumer  how much interest has been added and the interest rate.
v)If the creditor does not send a notice within six month,  they are not allowed to charge interest 
until a new notice  is sent. They are not allowed  to backdate and charge interest for the time 
they have missed.
I asked TFC several times for copies  of all the default notices they sent to Mr N. TFC only provided 
one, which was sent to Mr N on 14 April 2009.
This notice includes the relevant wording in (i) above. But there isnt a further notice sent after the 
judgment saying that TFC did intend to charge interest, as explained in (ii) or that Mr N could apply to 
the court  to change the interest rate or instalment amounts as in (iii). And from what  has been 
provided it seems like TFC didnt ever send another default notice to Mr N from April 2009 onwards.  
So even if TFC was entitled  to add post-judgement interest in the first place, I think that entitlement  
fell away when it didnt meet  its obligations to Mr N under the Consumer  Credit  Act in this regard.
Failure to send statements
I have already described in the background section that Mr N says he did not receive annual 
statements about his account from TFC, and I havent received copies of these  from TFC as part of 
their evidence  either. Mr N was given a confusing picture of his outstanding debts from different 
parties at different times. He could not have relied  on the information to fully understand what  he 
owed and why.  
Section 78 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 places a legal obligation on creditors to send  as a 
minimum  annual  statements in relation to running-account  credit. That includes loan debts like Mr 
Ns. 
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) has issued  guidance on whether s.78 continues  to apply when 
post-judgment debt interest is being charged by a creditor (Guidance on sections 77, 78 and 79 of 
the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  the duty to give information to debtors and the consequences of non-
compliance on the enforceability of the agreement 2010).
Ref: DRN11384967Paragraph 4.1 of that guidance states that s.78 doesnt apply where  a judgment has been obtained 
unless there is an interest-after-judgment clause  in the agreement.  So, even if I was wrong about 
whether Mr Ns credit agreement allowed post-judgment interest  to be applied, if TFC thought  that it 
could be applied it should have been sending  Mr N statements each year, which  it appears  it didnt 
do.
Ive thought about the impact on Mr N of TFCs failure  to send annual  statements to him. I think  if hed 
understood straight away that TFC were applying post-judgment interest hed have been able to deal 
with the issue more  quickly   preventing further  interest accruing. Or he could  have returned to court 
to clarify  the position or to seek an amendment to the charging order  an option which  is no longer 
realistic given the passage of time. 
I think  that TFC has failed  in its overarching duty to treat Mr N fairly (PRIN  2.1.1(6) R and CONC 7.3 
of the FCA handbook). But I also have  to think about what is fair to TFC in the circumstances. It is 
reasonable that TFC should be able to collect the amount that the judgment ordered  Mr N to pay - 
£2,279.29. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not intend to uphold Mr Ns complaint in respect of the sale of the 
PPI. But I do provisionally  intend to uphold Mr Ns complaint  about the interest charged post-
judgement on his outstanding  debt to TFC. 
If my decision becomes final, I intend to direct  The Funding Corporation  Limited to:
Rework Mr Ns account  to 1 July 2009  (the date of the CCJ), removing  all additional interest 
charges from that point  onwards and applying  any payments made by Mr N to the £2,279.29;
Remove any legal or other fees applied to the account from 1 July 2009;
Ensure  that no interest is applied  going forward;
Notify Mr N of the new balance  of his debt and continue  to notify him of his account activity  
and outstanding balance annually (as a minimum).
If  - when TFC works out what Mr N has paid since 1 July 2009   Mr N paid more than 
£2,279.29, then TFC must  refund  the excess and pay Mr N 8% simple interest per year on 
the amount Mr N paid in excess of the CCJ sum, from the point at which he paid it until the 
point at which he gets it back.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  TFC to take off tax from this interest. TFC must give Mr N a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
I will consider any further comments or representations that either party  wishes to make, and any 
evidence either party wishes to supply, which  I receive  before 18 November  2019.  I will make my final 
decision after this.
Ref: DRN1138496