K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont replace  his lost credit card.
background
Mr S banks with HSBC and also has one of their credit cards  which  was misplaced a few 
months ago. He asked  for a replacement to be issued  and says he was initially  told this 
would be actioned. However, because  hed exceeded the agreed £10,000 limit, HSBC  told 
him they wouldnt issue a replacement  card until the account was back within its limits.  
Nevertheless, they credited his account  with £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr S asked for our help and told us he was struggling financially. But our investigator didnt 
think HSBC had done anything wrong  she pointed out Mr S had been over the agreed limit 
for some months, and that his statements had been  asking him to reduce what  he owed. 
She also noted the terms of the account  say HSBC could suspend  the right to use the 
account if there was a risk that what  was owed might not be repaid. So while HSBC hadnt 
suspended the account, she felt withholding a new card was similar in practice.  
Our investigator felt the £50 HSBC had offered was fair and referred Mr S to some 
organisations that might be able to help with financial problems. But Mr S didnt agree. He 
said his company credit card doesnt allow spending over the limit, so he felt his personal 
card should  work the same way  as opposed to allowing further spending which  then 
attracts over limit charges. So his case was passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr S but I agree with what our investigator has said, for broadly the same reasons. 
Firstly, Im sorry to hear Mr S is struggling  financially  but I would reiterate  what  our 
investigator said in that there are organisations that might be able to help him. HSBC told me 
they werent aware Mr S was in difficulty,  so theyve  suggested he contact them  to see if 
theres anything they can do to support  him too. 
Ive had a look at Mr Ss credit card statements from the past 15 months. During  this period 
hes always had a £10,000 limit on his card, but hes also always  been over it. It does look 
as though hes been making his monthly  minimum repayments, but additional  spending each 
month meant he was still over his limit when  he asked for our help.
As our investigator said, HSBCs terms say they can refuse to replace or reissue a card if 
that might  lead to a breach of the agreement. The credit limit is an agreement,  so I think 
HSBC had grounds not to reissue  the card  especially given that this may then lead to 
further spending, which would only then worsen the problem. 
HSBC have said when  Mr S is back within his limit, theyll issue  him with a new card. I think 
thats fine. Especially  as they told us that if Mr S did have a card but continued  to spend over 
the limit, this could  lead to it being  declined anyway.  I know Mr S has suggested HSBC  issue 
him with a new card, but block  further spending on it. But by not yet issuing a new credit card 
HSBC have effectively  done what hes asked of them anyway. 
Ref: DRN14990262my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint  and am not asking to HSBC  to issue  
a replacement credit card if Mr S remains  to be over his agreed  credit limit.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019. 
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1499026