K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say they were mis-sold their home  insurance policy and are not happy  
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (L & G) refused their insurance claim for the 
loss of Mrs Hs ring. 
background
Following the loss of Mrs Hs engagement ring while on holiday, Mr and Mrs H made a claim 
on their home insurance policy.  Their  claim was declined as they didnt  have personal  
possessions cover. They say that the policy they took out in 2010  was mis-sold to them  and 
they werent made aware  that personal possessions  had been removed from their policy.  
They want  their claim  to be paid. 
L & G say the correctly declined the claim as the policy they held didnt have personal 
possessions cover. They say the home  insurance  policy they held with L & G was up for 
renewal in 2010. They say the new policy wasnt mis-sold. Mr and Mrs H were provided  with 
two policy  options  - one with personal  possession and one without. They  chose to proceed  
with the policy without personal possessions  as it was the cheaper option of the two. L & G 
dont think theyve done anything wrong  in the sale of the insurance  policy  or in declining the 
claim.
The investigator at this service didnt  think  there  was any evidence to suggest the insurance 
policy had been  mis-sold.  Mr and Mrs H received renewal documents  every  year showing 
that personal possessions wasnt included in the policy but they didnt read these. The 
investigator didnt  think  L & G had done  anything  wrong.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and so this has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have decided not to uphold  this 
complaint and will explain further.
I have to decide whether Mr and Mrs Hs policy  was mis-sold to them on the basis they were  
not told that personal possessions cover had been removed from the policy  they were taking 
out. L & G have  a responsibility to provide Mr and Mrs H with information that was clear and 
not misleading to enable  them to decide if the policy was suitable for them. So Ive looked  at 
what information was provided to them. 
I have seen the policy illustrations that L & G say they provided to Mr and Mrs H before they 
took out the policy in 2010.  These have included one option  with personal possessions  and 
one without this. I have reviewed the policy schedule  of the policy  they took out and it clearly  
shows that personal possessions was Not included. But Mr and Mrs H say they never 
received these illustrations at the time the policy was taken out. There  isnt any other  
evidence made  available that would  confirm whether or not these  illustrations were  available. 
L & G also havent been able to provide us with a copy of the call when they took out the 
policy. So I am unable  to comment on the specific information Mr and Mrs H were given 
about the different policy options before they took out this insurance.  I have to decide what I 
think is most likely  to have happened  by looking at the evidence available.  
Ref: DRN15819662The policy Mr and Mrs H opted to take out was cheaper than the policy  with the personal 
possessions. I think its fair to say there would have been a difference  in the product  being 
purchased so this should have given rise to some discussion  about  the different options  with 
different types  of cover and that different premiums were discussed. So I am satisfied  that 
the illustrations were generated at the time. Even  if Mr and Mrs H werent shown an 
illustration or given an explanation of differences between the policies  they discussed, they 
also received the insurance policy schedule and documents once the policy was purchased. 
The policy schedule clearly and prominently  said they didnt have personal possessions 
cover. So Im satisfied  that enough  information  was available to them  to allow  them to make 
changes to the policy if they wanted a different cover particularly as there was a cooling off 
period.  
In addition to this, the insurance policy has been renewed annually with policy  renewal 
documents being sent to Mr and Mrs H. They accept they havent been  reading the policy  
documents so hadnt realised that the personal  possession cover had been  removed  until 
they needed to make a claim against the policy in 2018. Having seen the policy documents, I 
am satisfied  that they clearly show that personal  possessions wasnt included.  I am 
persuaded that if they had been  reading the policy documents that were  being sent to them, 
they would  have realised sooner that personal  possessions wasnt  included.  Whilst I 
sympathise with Mr and Mrs H, I dont think it would be fair to hold L & G responsible for the 
level of cover they have  on their current policy. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that the insurance policy  or documents  have been 
unclear or misleading. The policy documents have been provided to Mr and Mrs H annually 
setting out the level of cover they had and they didnt question this. So I am satisfied they 
were aware or shouldve  been aware  that personal  possessions was no longer included in 
the policy. Under the circumstances  and in the absence of any other evidence, I cant  say 
that L & G have  mis-sold  the insurance  policy or done anything  wrong  in declining  the claim. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1581966