K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her payment protection insurance  (PPI).
background
Mrs W took out a mortgage  in 2001. This complaint  is about  a PPI policy she took out at the 
same time to protect her monthly  mortgage repayments if she couldnt work. Just to be clear,  
although Mrs W also mentioned another complaint, Im not looking into any other PPI sale in 
this decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint on the basis that the policy terms meant  that Mrs W 
wasnt covered for accident and sickness claims if they resulted from an existing medical  
condition she had. So, if Mrs W needed  to claim for this condition,  the policy wouldnt meet 
her needs.  Our adjudicator felt that HSBC shouldnt have recommended  the policy without 
pointing this out to Mrs W and thought it unlikely that she wouldve taken out the policy if it 
had. 
HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. The complaint came to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. 
my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Theres only limited  information and paperwork now available from when Mrs W took out 
this mortgage  and the PPI. Thats unsurprising after so long. Mrs W thought  shed applied  in 
one of HSBCs branches for this mortgage.  HSBC cant confirm  this  but Ive no reason to 
think that isnt what  happened.  So I think its fair to look at this complaint  on the basis  that 
Mrs W mightve spoken to someone at the bank about PPI  and HSBC mightve 
recommended her to take it out. 
If a business makes a recommendation  to have PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable  steps to make  sure the cover 
it recommends is suitable. So, to be as fair as possible  to Mrs W, Im going to look at this 
complaint on the basis that she spoke to someone  at HSBC and it advised her to take out 
the PPI. This gives Mrs Ws complaint the best chance of success. 
I cant be sure exactly how,  or if, HSBC explained  PPI to Mrs W. She doesnt  recall PPI 
being mentioned at all. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs W to remember what  
was discussed  at the time. This means that what she says isnt enough on its own for me to 
be able to uphold  her mis-sale complaint.  I must  take into account all the information  Ive got 
and the wider circumstances when deciding  what I think is most likely.
Mrs W was eligible for the PPI policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions that applied.
It looks like Mrs W filled in a separate PPI application to take out cover for her mortgage  
monthly repayments because its mentioned in the electronic mortgage application. So 
I think HSBC probably discussed  PPI with her during the mortgage  application  process  
and its likely that Mrs W decided that PPI offered her useful benefits and chose to have it.
Ref: DRN16250662I think the PPI was suitable for Mrs W, looking at what shes  told us about her 
circumstances. 
The policy covered Mrs W for accident, sickness and unemployment and it wouldve paid out 
for up to 12 months per claim.  This was significantly longer  than Mrs W couldve depended 
on getting sick pay from work. 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any redundancy money. This wouldve protected any 
lump sum Mrs W mightve got, giving her more financial security. So I can understand why 
someone with redundancy benefits would  still want  to have PPI as well. 
And, although Mrs W had some other insurance set up, PPI provided  a different sort of cover 
and paid out in different circumstances. 
Shes said her husband wouldve supported her financially, if necessary. And thats possible. 
But relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable  
as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Mrs Ws mortgage was a major financial commitment, and it was solely her responsibility to 
make the mortgage  monthly repayments.  Her home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage  
payments werent  kept up to date. Under the policy she was able to make  repeated  claims.  
This means  the policy  provided dependable protection  for the mortgage  as long as she was 
paying for her home. So, taking into account  everything shes  told us about  her financial 
circumstances, I think the policy couldve been  useful to Mrs W.    
Its possible  some of the information  HSBC gave Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  Ive taken into account that 
Mrs W has an ongoing medical condition  and she probably wasnt covered for absence from 
work as a result of this condition. 
But I think its unlikely that she wouldve  expected  to take significant time off work for this 
condition. (Im referring here to the condition that Mrs W knew  about  from childhood  she 
was diagnosed with another condition in 2002  so it doesnt look like this wouldve been 
excluded under the policy as it post-dates the sale).
This was a seasonal condition  so, certainly for most of the time, I think  its unlikely that it 
would affect Mrs Ws day to day life. She hasnt  told us that shed had to take any significant 
time off work because  of it, before taking out the policy.
And its a condition where the impact on someone who has it can usually  be successfully 
controlled with self-administered medication,  as and when  required. 
Under the policy, Mrs W would have to be off work  for 30 days  before the policy would pay 
out - for any condition.  So, when getting  her mortgage, I think  Mrs W wouldve thought  it 
unlikely shed have  needed to claim under the policy for any absence from work related  to 
the health issue shes brought to our attention.
For this reason, I dont  think its likely that having more information  about this policy term 
wouldve made any difference  to her decision at the time to take out the cover.   
Ref: DRN16250663As things  stand at the moment, I think it unlikely Mrs W wouldve made a different decision if 
better information had been provided.  On balance I think she still wouldve taken out the 
policy. This means I dont  currently think she lost out as a result of any shortcomings there 
may have  been  in the way HSBC  sold this PPI to Mrs W. So Im not planning to tell HSBC to 
do anything to put things right.
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has made any further  comment on what Ive said in my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN1625066