K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) taken  out in 2004. 
Ms G says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold the PPI.
background
The PPI was part of a Total Mortgage  Protection  Plan, which can also include other types  of 
cover like life cover.  Ms Gs complaint  is about  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax no longer  has all the paperwork from Ms Gs particular sale  its many years  since  
the sale took place. But from what we know of how Halifax sold PPI cover like Ms Gs, I think  
Halifax would normally make it clear  PPI didnt have to be taken and give customers  like 
Ms G a choice about taking it. 
Ms G says this didnt happen in her case.  She says she wasnt  offered an alternative  to the 
PPI and it wasnt made clear it was optional. Ive thought about this carefully. But apart from 
Ms Gs recollections, I dont have anything  else to suggest that Halifax didnt  give a choice to 
Ms G like I think it normally would. And Ms Gs recollections are of an event that took place 
over a decade earlier.  
Taking all this into account, on balance I havent seen enough to make  me think that Halifax 
didnt make it clear the PPI was optional before adding it to Ms Gs mortgage or that Ms G 
didnt agree to this. Likewise Ms G says the sale was rushed. But what I have  isnt enough to 
make me think Halifax pressured Ms G or didnt  give her a real choice. But I acknowledge 
that this isnt how Ms G recalls the sale.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms G, so it had to do more  and check the PPI was right for 
her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think  the PPI was right 
for Ms G. The cover was protection  for Ms Gs mortgage - a long term liability secured on her 
home. Ms G says Halifax  didnt ask about her medical history.  But, from what shes  told us, 
Ms G didnt suffer from any health problems at the time she took out the cover.  And, from 
what Ive seen, Ms G wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.
Also Ms G seems to have  had a need for the cover. From what  shes  told us, Ms G wouldve 
received less than three months work  pay if she suffered redundancy or was too sick to 
work. For a successful disability or unemployment  claim  the PPI would pay out for up to two 
years per claim. So the benefit could meet mortgage costs and help protect any savings 
Ms G had at what could be a difficult time if Ms G were unemployed or too ill to work.
Ms G says the PPI wasnt explained  to her properly.  Its possible the information Halifax 
gave Ms G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But I havent seen enough to 
Ref: DRN11433162make me think she didnt choose  to take the cover. So it looks  to me like she wanted  this 
sort of cover  at the time. And it seems  like the cover would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong - for the reasons  Ive already given  above. Taking everything into 
account, I dont  think  better information  about the PPI would have put Ms G off taking it.
Ive thought about all Ms Gs points, including what shes said about it not being made clear 
she was paying  interest  on the PPI. But the PPI didnt attract interest  and Ms G didnt pay 
more interest as a result  of taking the PPI. So, bearing in mind all Ive already  said above, 
these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms G paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Ms G back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Ms G.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1143316