K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2005. Mrs F says Bank of Scotland plc ((BoS)  trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs F doesnt  remember much from the time the sale took place  but this isnt surprising 
as the sale took place  so long ago. BoS has been able to provide a copy of Mrs Fs 
credit card application  - on this, I can see that the PPI is presented as an optional  
product, and Mrs F has signed to say she wanted  to take it. This is separate to her 
signature for the card. So I think BoS made it clear that Mrs F didnt have  to take out the 
PPI and she chose  to take it out.
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs F got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs F and her representatives have said - including what they 
have said about  Mrs F receiving a high level of sick pay from her employer. But the PPI 
couldve paid out on top of her existing cover, and for longer than she wouldve received full 
pay. So this point doesnt change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs F paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs F back  some  of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has already paid this to Mrs F.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Ref: DRN17610852Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1761085