K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold them  a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1990.  Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered the mortgage 
payments in case Mr B was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Bs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of the time thats passed,  the copy of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application is not 
very clear. But it looks like it had a section for PPI, where Mr and Mrs B were  offered the 
choice to take it out or turn it down. It looks like the option to take PPI was chosen, they 
selected what benefit they wanted, and it seems  that Mr and Mrs B had asked for a quote for 
PPI. Mr and Mrs B signed the application  form to confirm what was on it. Then  in 1991, when 
Mr and Mrs B increased their borrowing, I can see they signed and submitted a separate  
application form to increase  their PPI cover. Overall, I think its most likely  that B&B made 
Mr and Mrs B aware they had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that they chose to take it 
at the time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing  so after so long.
B&B didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it didnt have  to check if it was right for 
them. It did have to give Mr and Mrs B clear information about the PPI, so they could decide 
for themselves whether  it was right for them.
Its possible that the information B&B gave  Mr and Mrs B about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs B chose to take out PPI, which  implies  
they wanted this type of cover. And Mr B wasnt affected by any of the policys main 
exclusions or limitations. The policy was not bad value given how much  it would pay out in a 
claim, and Ive not seen anything to indicate it was unaffordable.
Ref: DRN10948222Mr B says he had generous work  benefits  and alternative insurance. This is different to what 
he told us before and I havent seen any evidence to support it. But even if I accept that he 
did have those benefits, the PPI still covered him for much longer  than they wouldve lasted, 
and it paid out on top of any existing benefits. Its worth bearing in mind that Mr B was the 
main earner at the time, and if Mr and Mrs B fell behind on their mortgage  payments they 
risked losing their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve  been useful for them in protecting  
their home. And it was paid on a rolling  monthly  basis, so Mr and Mrs B could cancel the 
policy at any time without a penalty. So overall,  I dont think  that better information was likely 
to have put them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1094822