K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about advice he received from Independent Financial Strategies Ltd (IFS)  to 
switch his existing  Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP) to a new SIPP, and subsequently 
use a discretionary fund management (DFM) service to invest his SIPP funds. He considers 
that the advice  was unsuitable.
background
Mr C was referred to IFS by a third party. In February 2014 IFS completed a fact find, 
recording Mr Cs circumstances  as follows:
He was a 51-year-old, self-employed engineer with annual earnings of £250,000
He owned  two properties  (including  his main residence),  each  worth  £500,000. He 
had an outstanding mortgage of £228,000  and was comfortable  with the monthly 
repayments 
He held £50,000 in Cash and £60,000  in shares  
His sole retirement provision was his SIPP which had an approximate  value of 
£138,000
Under the heading Knowledge and Experience Assessment, IFS recorded that:
Where financial arrangements had been made  in the past, Mr C would normally seek 
advice.  He had no experience requesting transactions on an Execution Only basis
Mr C had a reasonable  knowledge  of investments, having previously purchased 
Investment/Pension contracts
Mr C was a sophisticated investor with a share  portfolio managed by a discretionary 
investment manager (DIM).  He wanted  the same DIM, a business Ill refer to as 
Business W, to manage his pension assets
IFS determined that Mr Cs attitude to risk (ATR)  was Adventurous and therefore someone 
who was market aware and willing to accept a much higher level of risk () in return for the 
potential for higher growth (). It added  that Mr C realised such  an approach may include 
investments in specialist  funds and products whose performance could see the value of [his] 
portfolio fluctuating, possibly significantly () [Mr C] could experience  a loss of capital.
IFS said Mr C wasnt  seeking fund management  or investment advice from it as this would 
be provided by Business  W. It explained  that Mr Cs existing SIPP  couldnt  accommodate  
Business W as the DIM for his SIPP assets.  IFS also said Mr C wanted a more flexible 
arrangement with lower  costs and growth  over the long-term.
IFS produced a suitability  report  on 13 February 2014. In summary it said:
Mr C had been referred for advice specifically relating  to [his] retirement 
arrangements and sufficient background information had been gathered to provide 
this
Its primary objective was to review  Mr Cs pension to ensure he made the best 
use of it, investing  in a product () relevant  to [his] current needs. It was therefore 
appropriate that it considered these  matters and compared Mr Cs existing plan 
with () the wider market.  
Ref: DRN17857612Its recommendation took into account  how Mr Cs pension arrangement fit [his] 
financial situation and how [it] may be best used to provide  a package of benefits 
appropriate at [retirement]
Mr C could cope financially with any  investment value falls without  it affecting  his 
standard of living
As he wanted Business W to manage his pension assets, switching to a SIPP 
provider Ill refer to as Provider  J, would facilitate this. IFS would receive 3% of Mr 
Cs transfer value  for establishing the new arrangement
Mr C was happy with the returns () received from [his] investments with Business 
W and comfortable with it having discretion to manage his investments as it saw fit; 
this would be done in a manner that [satisfied Mr Cs] views and risk tolerances () 
and in line with the investment mandate provided
A SIPP application form was completed and signed  by Mr C on 27 February 2014. Business 
Ws details were  provided as Mr Cs DIM. The form was sent to Provider J which,  having 
confirmed receipt of it, said the relevant  documents  had been sent to Business W to 
establish Mr Cs discretionary account.
The value of Mr Cs existing SIPP (£138,624.91) was transferred to a new SIPP with 
Provider J on 7 April 2014. IFS adviser  charge  of £4,158.75 was later paid.
On 17 May 2014 an application form to open  an Execution  Only account in Mr Cs name with 
a DIM Ill refer to as Business S was completed, signed and forwarded to Provider J. 
Provider J confirmed receipt  of the form with IFS on 23 May 2014 and said the relevant 
documentation had been sent to Business S. It asked IFS to confirm how much of Mr Cs 
SIPP funds  should  be transferred to Business S and explained that trading could only 
commence once cash had been  successfully transferred.  
Business S later wrote  to IFS and Provider J, confirming Mr Cs Execution Only account had 
been opened. Further to this, Provider J asked IFS for its instruction of how much of Mr Cs 
SIPP funds  should  be transferred to Business S. IFS provided its instruction and on 6 June 
2014 £130,000 of Mr Cs funds were  transferred and later invested in the Optima  Worldwide 
Group Limited corporate bond (the OWG  bond) via Business S.
Provider J sent IFS and Mr C annual SIPP statements showing that almost all of Mr Cs 
SIPP funds  had been invested via Business  S. 
In May 2015  Provider J wrote to some of its customers, including  Mr C, who held accounts 
with Business S. It said Business S had notified  it that customers  like Mr C had instructed  it 
to purchase a corporate bond. It offered clarification regarding Mr Cs SIPP, Business S and 
the OWG  bond.  
Following a visit to his home on 2 May 2017, IFS sent Mr C a suitability report on 26 May 
2017. In summary  the report and IFS notes said:
It hadnt seen  Mr C since  the original advice as he hadnt wanted to pay for ongoing 
advice. The purpose of its meeting had been  to conduct Mr Cs annual  review
Business S was winding  down and the OWG bond Mr C held was too narrow  an 
investment. It advised Mr C to reduce his risk by selling the bond and reinvesting in a 
diversified balanced portfolio  it recommended  which reflected his ATR. Mr C was a 
balanced investor with the same ATR
Ref: DRN17857613Mr C owned four properties  valued at around  £700,000 which  produced a rental 
income of around £40,000 per annum that was likely to increase. Because  of this, his 
SIPP made up a relatively small percentage  of his retirement position
It was appropriate  to make some  adjustments to [Mr Cs] portfolio following a recent 
review of [its] portfolios and given that the alteration to rebalance  [could] come 
without cost or charge to [Mr C] it hoped  hed feel comfortable following its 
recommendation
On 1 June 2017 Provider  J notified Mr C that Business S had entered  special administration 
insolvency proceedings on 17 May 2017.  Mr C contacted IFS on 1 November 2017 to 
complain. As he didnt  receive a formal  response, he referred his complaint to our service. 
On 14 May 2018 Mr C received £2,051.37 from the Financial Services  Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) in respect of a claim he made against Business S. 
One of our adjudicators considered the merits of Mr Cs complaint and said it should be 
upheld. In summary she: 
Referred to the 2013 alert issued by the regulator (then the Financial Services 
Authority), saying IFS had a responsibility to provide Mr C with suitable advice, not 
only regarding the switch to a SIPP, but also in relation to the underlying investments 
used. She didnt think IFS demonstrated  the new SIPP proposed  and intended 
investment arrangement  were  suitable
Although IFS didnt appear  to advise Mr C to invest with Business S in the OWG 
bond, IFS facilitated the opening of an execution only account for Mr C with Business 
S and transfer of monies from his SIPP  for investment. IFS shouldve known and told 
Mr C this course of action was unlikely  to be suitable
Mr C agreed, however  IFS disagreed. In summary  it said:
Although it became  aware of Mr C investing  with Business S, it provided no advice 
It hadnt been aware of Mr Cs investment  in the OWG bond until 2017 so it couldnt 
advise him against it in 2014
Business S should be responsible for Mr Cs potential losses as it facilitated the 
inappropriate investment in the OWG bond
IFS representatives later made  the following additional points:
The regulators 2013 alert was of limited relevance. Under COBS 2.4.4 in the FSA 
Handbook and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), IFS could take  comfort  from the 
fact it believed Business W would be managing Mr Cs transferred funds. IFS was 
entitled to rely on Business Ws recommendations
IFS recommendation wholly met Mr Cs objectives; its advice  was on the basis Mr C 
wanted Business  W to manage  his SIPP assets
It wasnt unreasonable for IFS to assume Mr Cs funds would be invested 
appropriately by Business  W 
IFS suitability letter clearly laid out its responsibilities and demonstrated  it was acting 
on a limited retainer  to provide advice on the pension switch  only.  The case  of 
Denning v Greenlagh Financial Services [2017]  showed there was no obligation  on it 
to advise outside the scope of their retainer  
Ref: DRN17857614There was nothing  to suggest that investing a small proportion  of Mr Cs intended  
retirement assets in a high-risk  product  like the OWG  bond was unsuitable 
Mr C knowingly took a risk with his retirement assets; the fact that risk didnt pay off 
wasnt IFS fault
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
I apologise to both parties for the length of time weve had this complaint and thank them for 
their patience. Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding Mr Cs 
complaint. Ill explain  why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of 
the extensive arguments made, Ive limited  my response to the issue  I consider to be central 
to this complaint.  That is to say, whether the advice IFS gave Mr C was suitable.
The regulators position  
IFS recorded that Mr C wanted to switch to a cheaper, more flexible arrangement,  achieve 
growth in the long-term and have Business W manage his pension assets. It says it advised 
Mr C to switch  to Provider Js SIPP on the basis that it wholly met his objectives. Because  of 
this it considers its recommendation suitable.  IFS says it didnt provide any advice  regarding  
any investment within Mr Cs SIPP  as Business W was to provide this. 
Mr C accepted IFS recommendation, so a new SIPP was set up and his funds  were  
transferred and made available for investment. But instead of a Discretionary account being 
opened for Mr C with Business W as planned, an Execution Only account was opened with 
another DIM  Business  S. Further to this, over 90% of Mr Cs SIPP funds were transferred 
to Business S and invested in an unregulated  illiquid corporate  bond.
Having thought carefully about what happened  here, I dont think IFS advice to switch was 
suitable. And I dont  believe IFS was correct to limit its advice in the way it sought to. When  
considering the overall suitability of the switch IFS had a duty to take into account how Mr 
Cs funds would be invested. Without  this Im not satisfied it could reasonably determine the 
switch was in Mr Cs best interests. An alert issued by the regulator in 2013 demonstrated it 
took the same view.  Its position in the alert was clear  where  it said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give regulated  advice and the 
recommendation will enable investment  in unregulated items, you cannot  separate out the 
unregulated elements from the regulated elements
The alert didnt make any changes to the regulations. It simply restated the principles that 
already applied and were  in place in 2014  when the advice was given.  In Mr Cs case, IFS 
says the intention was for another regulated firm to provide advice on where  Mr Cs funds 
should be invested and arrange this. It seems IFS was under the impression that this way of 
Ref: DRN17857615operating removed any obligation it had to consider Mr Cs intended investments as part of 
its assessment of the suitability of the switch. But this wasnt right. And I dont think there  
was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position  on the matter. 
IFS has asked me to consider the case  of Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services [2017]  
to argue that it was under no obligation to provide Mr C with investment advice beyond  the 
switch. It says the scope  of its duty was limited  to what was agreed  between it and Mr C 
which was clearly laid out in the suitability report.  In Denning  v Greenhalgh the court said it 
was important, when  deciding what the scope  of the advisers duty was, to look at the terms 
on which the adviser was engaged. And that the duty should only be extended in narrow 
circumstances. In the case in question the adviser  wasnt held liable because he wasnt 
asked to review the previous advice given  by an earlier adviser  (which  it was alleged was 
negligent), wasnt  paid to do so and did not have all the information about  it.
But in Mr Cs case, the fact remains that IFS agreed to review  Mr Cs existing pension and 
was retained by Mr C to do so. So, I believe it was incumbent on it to take into account the 
investment of Mr Cs pension funds in order  to give suitable advice in this situation. IFS 
owed Mr C a duty of care which involved considering the overall suitability of the investment 
proposition; the intended  investment had a substantive connection to the appropriate advice 
it had been engaged to and had committed to provide.  IFS Key Facts  about  our services 
and costs, Terms of Business and Client Agreement documents confirmed Mr C would be 
given comprehensive  advice which provided  him with clear financial direction. It was said 
this would be achieved  by having a full understanding of [Mr Cs] financial position, then 
identifying and agreeing [his] needs  and objectives,  enabling [IFS]  to provide suitable and 
relevant solutions  () in order to treat [Mr C] fairly and maximise  opportunities for achieving 
[his] goals. IFS also said its primary objective was to review Mr Cs pension to ensure he 
made the best use of it, investing in a product () relevant to [his] current  needs. Im not 
satisfied this service could be provided without consideration of where Mr Cs funds would 
ultimately be invested.
Under COBS 9.2 IFS was required by the regulator  to take reasonable steps  to make sure 
its recommendation was suitable for Mr C. To achieve this, COBS  9.2.2R  said IFS had to 
obtain sufficient  information from Mr C to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that 
he could bear the related investment risks consistent with his objectives and that he had the 
necessary experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.  So 
as part of the fact-finding process IFS had to understand Mr Cs objectives (two of which  
were recorded as investing  via a DIM and achieving long term investment growth) and the 
related risks.  It wasnt  free to ignore how Mr Cs funds were  going to be invested  this 
couldnt be separated from the advice to switch,  irrespective  of another regulated party being 
involved. 
Im also conscious that COBS 2.1.2 sets out that IFS couldnt  seek  to exclude or restrict any 
duty or liability it had to Mr C under the regulatory  system. So, I dont agree that what  IFS 
has referred to as its limited retainer to provide advice on [just] the pension switch  absolved 
it of its duty of care as Mr Cs adviser  to ensure the advice  it was providing was suitable  
again, this had to include an understanding of how Mr Cs funds were  to be invested.
In addition to what Ive outlined above,  Ive also considered IFS advice with the regulators 
overarching Principles for Businesses  in mind. Principles 1 (conducting  business  with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers  
interests and treating  them  fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
Ref: DRN17857616misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice  for a customer  entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case.
Was the advice to switch suitable?
While I accept that Mr C seeking advice indicates he was open to switching, I dont think  this 
meant switching was automatically the best route  to go down. I believe the fact he was 
seeking financial advice  more likely  demonstrates  Mr C was only willing  to switch if it was 
appropriate. And thats what  I think he wanted from IFS  confirmation  of what  was in his 
best interests with regards to his pension benefits. IFS appears to acknowledge its 
responsibility in this regard when, in its suitability letter, it said it would review his existing 
pension, ensuring  it was most suitable  for his needs  and circumstances.
Where Mr Cs funds  were  invested
Following the switch, almost all of Mr Cs funds were  invested in the OWG bond. The OWG 
prospectus described the investment as an unsecured convertible redeemable loan note 
targeting investment returns of 8% per annum. Risk and reward are inextricably linked, and 
in my view,  an investment  offering that level of return can reasonably  be assumed to be high 
risk. Especially at a time when interest rates were generally quite low  in 2014 the Bank of 
England base rate was 0.5% a year.
The bond  was also unregulated, not listed in any stock  market and unprotected from loss by 
the Financial Services  Compensation Scheme (FSCS). I think  the bond shared enough of 
the characteristics of unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS), for the regulators 
2010 alert to be relevant. As well as saying these types of investments were  only eligible for 
promotion to certain  customers (generally sophisticated, high net worth  investors), the 
report, as an example,  said that, even when  a customer  was deemed eligible for the 
promotion of UCIS,  suitable advice involved limiting a client's  exposure  to these investments 
to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In Mr Cs case, over 90% of his funds were  
invested in the OWG bond. I dont think the bond was at all suitable for Mr C, let alone in the 
proportion invested.  
Although IFS didnt specifically advise Mr C to invest in the OWG bond, it has said it doesnt 
think that investing in such a high-risk product was unsuitable for Mr C. But based on what 
was known of Mr C in 2014, I dont agree. Mr C was a standard  retail investor (IFS confirmed 
it would  be treating him as such) and the value of his SIPP  represented his sole retirement 
provision. There was nothing to suggest Mr C had any significant knowledge of investments  
like the OWG bond or the capacity for loss or experience to withstand  or appreciate the level 
of risk the bond  presented.  
IFS determined Mr Cs ATR was Adventurous and that he was a sophisticated  investor; 
someone who was market aware; willing  to accept a higher level of risk and who could  cope 
financially with any falls in the value of [his] investment without it affecting [his] standard of 
living. But Im not satisfied these  were accurate conclusions to reach or that IFS sufficiently 
investigated and gathered  adequate evidence which could reasonably have led it to these 
conclusions. I cant see that Mr Cs circumstances  or understanding met the type of investor 
a non-mainstream  investment bond might be deemed appropriate for or that subjecting Mr 
Cs only retirement provision to illiquid, narrowly concentrated assets,  could reasonably be 
justified or deemed  anything but unsuitable. Im also mindful  that while IFS concluded  in 
2014 that Mr C was an adventurous investor, in 2017 its position on the matter  shifted quite  
considerably  it determined that Mr C was a balanced investor. No explanation  is given  for 
Ref: DRN17857617why IFS position  on the type of investor  Mr C was changed so considerably, but I think that 
based on what IFS did know  of Mr Cs circumstances  in 2014, categorising  him as a 
balanced investor wouldve been a more truthful  characterisation of him at the time. 
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont  think the suitability of IFS advice turns solely  
on where Mr Cs funds  were ultimately invested. IFS recommendation that Mr C switch  to a 
new SIPP  in the first place is also an important consideration. And were  it not for the switch  
(and IFS incomplete advice),  Im not persuaded Mr C wouldve gone on to invest as he did.
Mr Cs circumstances 
There are several discrepancies between the information captured  in IFS fact find and what 
Mr C has said his circumstances in 2014  actually were. For example, IFS recorded that Mr C 
owned two properties (each worth £500,000) and held £60,000  worth  of shares with 
Business W. But Mr C has confirmed he didnt  own any property in 2014, was living  in rented 
accommodation and has never had anything  to do with Business  W. He says he doesnt  
recall receiving IFS 2014 suitability letter which repeatedly named Business W as the DIM 
Mr C supposedly wanted to provide investment advice and manage his pension assets going 
forward. 
Its not clear to me why theres  such a disconnect between some  of IFS and Mr Cs 
submissions. But as these dont always concur, Ive reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances,  to help me decide  what I think is more  likely to have happened  
or shouldve  happened.  However, I should say that, even based on the information IFS did 
record for Mr C in 2014  which in some instances appears to have either been incorrect or 
incomplete  I still dont think its switching advice was suitable.
IFS didnt identify what Mr Cs anticipated  income  requirements in retirement were likely to 
be; give any meaningful consideration to the fact that Mr C was self-employed or have 
sufficient regard for the fact his SIPP represented  his entire pension provision. In the 
circumstances I think Mr Cs SIPP was his most valuable asset and not something  he was in 
a position to take a substantial risk with. Any significant  loss would have a serious impact on 
his retirement provision.  
Theres nothing to indicate IFS explored or recorded important factors such as how Mr Cs 
existing SIPP had been performing, where  it was invested, what the charges were  or what 
features and options were available under it. And despite saying Mr C wanted to switch  to a 
SIPP that allowed  him to use Business W as a DIM,  IFS didnt  appear  to gather any 
information (either from Business W or Mr C) about  the exact nature of Mr Cs purported 
existing relationship with Business W; the nature of his investments with it or where  Mr Cs 
funds were intended/likely to be invested  once  transferred. Without this sort of information, 
which I consider essential  to providing  Mr C with suitable advice, I dont believe IFS could  
assess whether what it noted  about  Mr Cs happiness with Business W and comfort it could 
and would manage his investments in line with his risk tolerances,  was correct  there wasnt  
tangible evidence to support this. Nor could  it draw a reasonable conclusion  about whether 
switching, mainly to accommodate using Business W was a DIM, was in Mr Cs best 
interests. IFS says it gathered sufficient background  information to enable it to make its 
recommendation. But based on the information  Ive seen,  Im not satisfied it did. And Im 
mindful that it needed to do this in order to meet  its obligation under COBS  9.
Ref: DRN17857618Had IFS, prior to its recommendation, made basic enquiries with Business W about its 
existing relationship with Mr C, I think it wouldve likely become aware that Mr C wasnt  (and 
never had been) a customer of Business W. And if it had made similarly relevant enquiries 
with Mr Cs existing SIPP provider it wouldve also identified that under his original  SIPP, Mr 
C already had a DIM  which wasnt Business W  managing his pension assets. 
Under his original SIPP, Mr C was invested in his existing DIMs managed portfolio. This 
comprised of holdings  in around  fourteen  different  funds (mostly rated  as low-medium risk 
in Key Investor Information documents) which were invested in a range of asset classes 
such as equities,  fixed interest securities and bonds. Given the not insignificant  size of Mr 
Cs SIPP fund (£130,000+), his recorded annual earnings (£250,000) and investment 
experience at the time, I dont  think using  a DIM was necessarily inappropriate. However,  I 
dont think this automatically means  switching to a new SIPP  to access a new DIM and 
making a narrowly concentrated investment was suitable  the latter was clearly  at odds with 
Mr Cs experience and represented a level of risk he wasnt  in a position to take. IFS 
shouldve recognised this.
Had it carried out appropriate research, I think its reasonable to assume IFS wouldve 
identified that Mr C was already  using a DIM. And further to this I wouldve  expected it to 
query why Mr C wanted to use a different  DIM and/or why a new DIM  if deemed more 
appropriate  couldnt be accommodated  under  his existing SIPP, thus avoiding  the 
additional costs  and charges associated with switching to a new SIPP arrangement.
Im not satisfied theres sufficient evidence of adequate due diligence by IFS on this 
occasion. In my view,  it failed to take reasonable steps to collect and record essential 
information in order to ensure the advice  it was providing to Mr C was suitable. It also failed 
to meet  its obligation  to ensure Mr C was provided  with sufficient information to make  an 
informed decision about switching. Unfortunately, this had serious consequences for Mr C 
and I think the losses  he experienced couldve largely been avoided  had IFS carried out an 
appropriate investigation at the outset.
Mr Cs objectives
IFS stated Mr Cs objectives at the time were to switch to a cheaper, more  flexible 
arrangement, achieve growth in the long-term  and have Business W manage his pension  
assets. Theres very little detail provided by IFS regarding what these objectives meant to Mr 
C in real terms. Although  mindful of IFS record of Mr Cs objectives, Im conscious that while  
retirement planning may have regard for an individuals general preferences,  its primary 
focus should be a consumers personal circumstances with a view to putting them in the best 
possible position at retirement, with the appropriate  income provision in place long-term. So, 
it wasnt IFS role to simply justify and make the switch happen because it appeared to cater 
to Mr Cs apparent objectives. It had to collect information regarding Mr Cs specific 
objectives, rather than relying solely on the generic ones put forward. IFS also needed to 
determine which of Mr Cs objectives were pressing requirements, such  that taking additional 
risks with his only pension provision was worthwhile and identify  those which were nice to 
haves and didnt  make taking a gamble advisable. 
IFS has said its advice to switch centred on Mr Ws requirement that Business  W manage 
his pension assets. Its suitability letter said Mr W was aware that switching  to a new SIPP  
was most suitable  () for this to happen . While this may have been  the case, I dont think 
this negated IFS duty to approach the matter in a fair and balanced away, according to Mr 
Cs best interests. 
Ref: DRN17857619IFS didnt set out in any detail,  the alternative  options it explored/considered before 
determining switching from one SIPP  to another was the most suitable action for Mr C to 
take. And judging by the narrow focus of IFS suitability letter and its belief  without any 
evident justification  that a new SIPP was required, it seems  to me IFS approached the 
matter of providing advice  with a preconceived agenda that Mr C switching to a new 
arrangement to facilitate  the use of a specific DIM was the best possible solution for him. I 
dont think this was right. 
As Ive said,  IFS didnt appear to collect any information about Mr Cs alleged previous 
experience using a DIM or consider whether investing via another  DIM (Business W or 
otherwise) was right for him in the first place. IFS also didnt seem  to give any thought to 
whether the investment options under Mr Cs existing SIPP  (with or without the need  for a 
DIM) wouldve better suited  Mr C, thus avoiding the need to change  to a different provider.  If 
the primary driver  for IFS switching advice was to be so Business  W could manage Mr Cs 
pension assets,  IFS needed to clearly  outline the benefits of using a DIM and why using  
Business W in particular was in Mr Cs best interests. IFS didnt do this and I dont think  it 
was appropriate  for it to just rely on how Mr C apparently felt about Business W at the time. 
This wasnt a reasonable basis for its switching advice.  Mr C wasnt  a pension expert and he 
was wholly  reliant  on IFS about  what do.
As IFS recorded that Mr C wanted a cheaper  more flexible arrangement and to achieve 
greater investment performance, I think it was correct in its suitability letter  when it said it 
said its recommendation needed  to compare the features of [Mr Cs] existing plan with that 
which [was] available  in the wider market. But for reasons that are unclear, IFS never went  
on to carry out such  a comparison or collate enough  information  to do so. 
IFS suitability letter made very limited  references to the costs associated  with its 
recommendation. It confirmed its fee for arranging  the new SIPP would be 3% of Mr Cs 
transfer value  and said Key Feature documents provided set out applicable SIPP charges. 
However, Ive seen nothing to indicate IFS considered in any detail the cost and features of 
Mr Cs existing SIPP or quantified and compared this with the initial  and ongoing charges 
that would  be associated with the new arrangement  it was recommending  including  those  
related to using  Business W as a DIM.  In my view, not properly taking into account the 
impact (potentially in the form of projections  to retirement) of the costs  of the new SIPP and 
intended investment  strategy,  meant IFS didnt take appropriate steps to ensure the overall 
suitability of its recommendation. As Mr C would incur additional costs as a result  of the 
switch, IFS needed  to justify these  in light of Mr Cs needs and objectives and present this in 
a way Mr C was likely to understand. The cost of the switch  along with SIPP, DIM and 
investment charges would  all play a role in determining what  Mr Cs investment returns 
would ultimately be. So, weighing up the costs associated with its recommendation was a 
crucial part of IFSs consideration of the suitability  of its advice.  Any additional costs needed 
to be acceptable  in terms of the specific benefit Mr C needed.  IFS made no attempt to do 
this.
While wanting to improve the performance  of a pension arrangement is a common  and 
understandable objective,  I havent  seen anything  that makes  me think  a switch for this 
reason was necessary for Mr C at the time. There was nothing  to indicate  Mr C was 
materially dissatisfied with the performance of his SIPP  or that he needed to take additional 
investment risks with his fund to achieve better  returns. No information was captured  about 
the level of return  Mr C was targeting, whether this was realistic  in the circumstances and if 
the risks involved in seeking  this were worth taking  or suitable.  I also havent seen any 
Ref: DRN178576110persuasive evidence  the new scheme  IFS recommended and in particular, the intended 
investment strategy, was likely to outperform Mr Cs existing arrangement to such  a degree  
that the switch  couldve  been considered  to be worthwhile.  If securing  improved  investment  
was part of IFS reasoning for its recommendation I think it needed  to clearly demonstrate to 
Mr C with supporting evidence why it expected this from the new arrangement.  
In terms of flexibility, IFS didnt determine  what Mr C meant  by this or establish whether he 
needed it. Nor did it outline how the new SIPP would specifically afford Mr C the greater 
flexibility he was seeking. For switching for this reason to be justified, IFS needed to 
consider whether the additional  flexibility Mr C might  gain lined up with what his ATR, 
capacity for loss and investment knowledge should  realistically have been determined  to be. 
While Mr C may have  wanted to take a more hands on approach to investing  and be more 
involved in the management of his pension, there  was nothing  to indicate he was 
experienced in this area and likely be capable of this into retirement.  
Under the heading flexibility IFS suitability  letter said it was worth ensuring Mr C was 
invested in a fully flexible plan in terms of current and future  options.  It said Provider Js 
SIPP offered  this benefit but didnt explain how this differed so much  from the flexibility  Mr 
Cs existing SIPP offered, such that switching was in his best interests.  And with regard to 
the intended investment strategy  (using a DIM), I think IFS obligations went further than just 
identifying a SIPP that could accommodate this arrangement. IFS had a duty to act in Mr Cs 
best interests and not recommended the switch if, having carried out appropriate due 
diligence, it identified any disadvantages, anomalies or obvious  risks.
Although IFS says Mr C couldnt have  achieved his objectives without switching I dont  think 
facilitating the switch for this purpose, made its advice suitable. IFS had a significant  and 
overriding responsibility to challenge  Mr Cs objectives and not accept them  at face value.  I 
also dont think Mr C was provided with a clear  picture of the extent of what  was already 
available under his existing SIPP compared  to the perceived benefit of switching  to meet  his 
objectives. So Im not satisfied  it was appropriate  for these  factors (Mr Cs recorded  
objectives), which  in my view werent  compelling justifications, to be the basis for IFS 
recommendation that Mr C switch.  While  I accept  IFS provided Mr C with information about 
the switch, I dont believe it was as clear,  comprehensive and balanced as it needed to be 
for him to make an informed decision about whether to switch  or not.
Using a DIM 
IFS suitability letter said Business W would be responsible for investment advice and fund 
management. It says it was always under the impression Mr C would be investing  with 
Business W (a reputable,  FCA regulated fund manager) and argues that it was  entitled to 
rely on any recommendations that were to be provided by it. IFS also says it doesnt  think 
there was anything unreasonable about it assuming Mr Cs funds  would be invested by 
Business W in line with the parameters provided by Mr C. Im afraid I dont agree with IFS 
position here. And Im not satisfied it acted with the care and due diligence  it was required to 
in the circumstances. 
While I accept that IFS suitability letter did say Business W would be responsible for 
investment advice and the day to day management of Mr Cs funds, it also said this would be 
done in line with the investment mandate provided. So, in the circumstances  I wouldve 
expected IFS to have  provided Business W with such a mandate or at the very least  a brief 
with details of Mr Cs ATR,  circumstances and experience. Or alternatively,  to check how 
Business W broadly  proposed to invest  Mr Cs money as a result  any assessment it intended 
Ref: DRN178576111to carry out itself. Theres nothing to indicate IFS did either  of these  things (with  Business W 
or later, Business  S), and I think this was a failing  on IFS part. 
In July 2012 the regulator issued finalised guidance titled Assessing suitability: 
Replacement business  and centralized investment propositions. It set out its position on 
situations where a firm referred  investment  selections to a DIM. Specifically, it said:
A firm may also decide to refer investment selection  to a third party.  Where  a firm refers 
investment
selections to a discretionary manager,  both the introducing firm and the discretionary 
management
firm have obligations to ensure that a personal recommendation or a decision to trade is 
suitable for the
client. The obligations  on each party will depend  upon the nature and extent of the 
respective service
provided. Both parties  should be clear  on their respective service, and ensure they meet  the
corresponding suitability  obligations. If either  or both parties are not clear, there is a risk that 
clients
may receive  unsuitable  advice and/or have their portfolios managed inappropriately.
So, IFS needed to document and be clear with Mr C and the DIM about  what  its role was, 
where its responsibility extended  to, what the DIMs  obligations were and what  Mr C should  
expect of the whole transaction. Instead,  from what Ive seen, the information IFS provided  
Mr C with regarding these  things  was brief and vague at best when it shouldve been  
extensive and explicit. I also cant see that IFS made any attempt to contact Business W (or 
subsequently Business  S) to conduct adequate due diligence  (which  ought to have included  
consideration of the DIMs  reputation and financial standing as well as its approach  to 
undertaking due diligence on underlying investments);  satisfy  itself the DIMs investment 
strategy was likely to be suitable  for Mr C and make sure there  was a clear understanding  
about respective  responsibilities so it could  be certain the DIM accepted responsibility for 
risk mapping IFS conclusions about  Mr Cs position  to its investment offerings. 
Given IFS obligation to act in Mr Cs best interests,  I dont think it took the necessary steps 
to achieve this. And I think it was wholly inappropriate for IFS to make the assumptions it did 
about the actions the DIM would take with Mr Cs funds. These assumptions subjected Mr C 
to real risks.
In saying that it did nothing wrong  by assuming Mr Cs funds would  be invested appropriately 
by Business W, IFS has relied  on COBS  2.4. It says this provision  allowed  it to take  
comfort in the knowledge a regulated third party (either Business  W or later, Business S) 
would be managing Mr Cs transferred funds. I consider COBS 2.4.6R and 2.4.8R relevant 
here. They say:
A firm will be taken  to be in compliance  with any rule in this sourcebook that requires  it to 
obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on information 
provided to it in writing  by another person ()
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance  with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by an unconnected  authorised person  or a professional 
firm, unless it is aware or ought  reasonably  to be aware of any fact that would give 
reasonable grounds to question the accuracy  of that information.
Ref: DRN178576112The above  extracts  make  clear that relying  on information is conditional on the reliance 
being reasonable. In Mr Cs case I cant see that IFS sought  or received any information 
from either Business  W or Business S upon which it was reasonable for it to be satisfied Mr 
Cs funds would be invested appropriately.  Im also mindful of what  happened  following IFS 
advice that Mr C switch  for the purpose of investing  via Business W. As a result of events 
that followed, I think IFS ought  reasonably  to have been aware of facts that shouldve 
prompted it to question the information it was being  provided with and led to it taking 
appropriate action  to act in Mr Cs best interests. 
What happened  following  IFS switching advice
Further to the setting up of Mr Cs new SIPP, Provider J wrote to IFS confirming a request 
had been made to set up a discretionary account with Business W for Mr C. However,  the 
discretionary account with Business  W was never set up. Instead, Provider J later wrote to 
IFS saying that as requested, an account  with another DIM, Business S, was being set up 
for Mr C on an Execution Only basis. Provider J asked IFS to confirm how much of Mr Cs 
funds should be transferred  to Business S and explained trading could only commence  once 
the funds had been received. Provider  J later confirmed Mr Cs Business S account had 
been set up and asked IFS for its instruction of how much of Mr Cs money should be 
transferred. Following this IFS provided  its instruction and £130,000   over 96% of Mr Cs 
total SIPP value   was sent to Business S and invested in the OWG  bond.  
Although Ive not seen anything to suggest  IFS ever advised Mr C to use Business S as a 
DIM, I dont think  this automatically absolves it of any responsibility for Mr Cs losses as a 
result of the investment made via Business S. Ive considered IFS awareness of Mr Cs 
funds being invested via Business S and what,  if any, action it took  or shouldve taken  
following on from this awareness. 
As soon  as Provider  J told IFS an account  was being set up for Mr C with a DIM different to 
the one its original advice had been  based on (and on a different basis   Execution Only,  
rather than Discretionary)  IFS shouldve immediately recognised something was amiss. 
There was activity in Mr Cs SIPP which was clearly at odds with its original advice.  In the 
first instance, I wouldve expected IFS to contact Provider J to query the circumstances 
surrounding the Business S Execution  Only account being set up. It wouldve also been 
prudent for it to contact  Mr C directly to establish  what, if anything, he knew about the matter 
 particularly the change to a different DIM. Had IFS, as Mr Cs adviser,  taken this action, I 
think its likely it wouldve  discovered Mr C was possibly acting under the influence of an 
unregulated introducer and/or that while he may have understood hed be investing in the 
OWG bond,  he didnt fully understand or appreciate the nature of the investment or realise 
hed be investing  almost all his pension monies  in it. Further to this IFS couldve also asked 
questions of Business  S about  the intended investment and in doing so identified it was 
unlikely to be suitable for Mr C, especially in the amount proposed.
IFS fact find recorded  that Mr C had no experience requesting transactions on an Execution  
Only basis and would normally seek advice for financial arrangements. So, I think  IFS 
shouldve treated news that an Execution Only account was being set up for Mr C (which 
was out of character) with caution, along with Provider Js request for confirmation  of how 
much of Mr Cs SIPP funds should be sent to Business S. IFS shouldve told Mr C that, 
based on what it knew of his circumstances and experience, an Execution Only portfolio with 
Business S was unlikely to be suitable.  
Ref: DRN178576113As Mr Cs financial adviser IFS had a responsibility to act in Mr Cs best interests.  I dont 
think it did this when,  without making any enquiries,  it helped facilitate the transfer  of almost 
all of Mr Cs funds to Business S for investment which  it had made no effort  to establish  the 
nature or details  of. I think the fact that IFS did this was a significant  error. It became 
involved in a transaction that went beyond what was documented in its recommendation 
report. Despite  the potential  influence  of a third party  over Mr C, I consider it more likely than 
not that, had IFS warned Mr C against  any investment via Business S, Mr C wouldve 
listened, and attempts couldve been  made to put a stop to an Execution  Only account being  
opened. I also doubt that further to IFS warnings, Mr C wouldve then agreed to the transfer 
any of his funds  for investment in the OWG bond.
I havent seen  anything to suggest IFS took any meaningful action following Provider Js 
correspondence about Business S. As a result, Mr Cs Execution Only account  with 
Business S was set up. And further to this and for reasons that are unclear, IFS also 
authorised the transfer of Mr Cs funds to Business S for investment. 
Although prior to the submission of Mr Cs Business  S application, IFS doesnt seem to have 
had any awareness  that Mr Cs money  was to be transferred to Business S, let alone 
invested in the OWG bond, I consider IFS responsible for the fact this was able to happen at 
all. And I believe it shouldve been aware,  when instructing  Provider J to send  a significant 
amount of Mr Cs money to Business S, of where  this money was to be invested. As Ive 
already said, even before the account  with Business S was set up, IFS had a duty to 
consider exactly how Mr Cs funds  were to be invested. IFS failed to do this either with 
Business W or Business S. 
IFS had a significant and overriding responsibility  to act in Mr Cs best interests. Overall, I 
think there were evident shortcomings by IFS in its capacity as Mr Cs financial adviser.  And 
as a result, Im not persuaded IFS exercised the reasonable skill and care required regarding 
the transaction that took place. Together, IFS actions and inactions enabled the unsuitable 
investment to be made and in doing so exposed almost all of Mr Cs pension  provision to 
foreseeable risk and the possibility of serious  detriment. Because  of this I think  its fair and 
reasonable to hold IFS responsible for Mr Cs losses. Were it not for IFS acts and omissions 
I dont find that Mr Cs funds wouldve or couldve been invested as they were. I dont accept 
that anything the unregulated introducer  or third party  did was an intervening  act which  
completely absolved IFS of its liability for Mr Cs losses.
I note that following the SIPP switch and investment  of most of Mr Cs funds via Business S 
in the OWG bond, IFS remained listed  as Mr Cs financial  adviser on his Provider J SIPP. As 
a result it was sent regular statements  for Mr Cs SIPP up until 2017. These showed that 
almost all of Mr Cs funds  were invested with Business  S. Further  to receiving this 
information, Im not aware of IFS making  any enquiries with Mr C, Business S or Provider  J. I 
think this was a missed opportunity to identify where  Mr Cs funds were invested,  recognise 
something wasnt right and advise Mr C against it or to take corrective  action.  
Im aware that IFS later met with Mr C in May 2017  and advised  him to sell the OWG bond 
and reinvest in a diversified balanced portfolio. But I think IFS couldve and ought to have 
made this recommendation much earlier. As Ive already said, IFS shouldve been  aware  of 
where Mr Cs funds  were invested at the time of its original advice in 2014. Had it been,  it 
couldve given Mr C the same advice it later gave  him in 2017.  IFS 2017 recommendation to 
disinvest the OWG bond doesnt negate its responsibility to provide Mr C with suitable  
advice in 2014.     
Ref: DRN178576114IFS has said that, if it hadnt facilitated the opening of Mr Cs execution only account and 
transfer of his funds  to Business S, it wouldve been  in breach of its obligations under COBS 
11.2.19 R (1) which  says:
Whenever there is a specific instruction from the client, the firm must execute  the order 
following the specific instruction.
But I dont agree. COBS  11.2.19 R (1) relates to the execution of an instruction to make an 
investment, but it would only be relevant  where  IFS didnt provide any advice. In this case,  
IFS did provide Mr C with advice. And as Ive already explained, IFS wasnt at liberty to 
restrict the advice  it gave Mr C to the switch alone  how and where  his funds were to be 
invested was an integral  part of IFS duty to provide  suitable advice.  
In my view IFS wouldnt have got to the point of executing the instructions  it did if it had 
provided Mr C with suitable advice in the first place,  taking into account all its regulatory 
obligations. Im also not satisfied, based on what Ive seen, that this  the setting up on an 
Execution Only account and transfer  of funds to Business  S  was a genuine  execution-only 
transaction. Even if it was  and to be clear, I dont think  it was  Im mindful that the major 
obligation on a firm in an execution-only relationship  is to provide best execution. Under 
COBS 11.2 this means a firm has to take all reasonable steps to obtain, when executing  
orders, the best possible results for its clients taking into account  the execution  factors. I 
cant see that IFS took any such discerning  steps  prior to facilitating the setting up of Mr Cs 
Execution Only account and transfer  of funds to Business  S, such that it can be said it met 
the best execution obligation  it wouldve had under  COBS  11.2 were this considered to be 
an execution only transaction. Im also mindful that under IFS Terms of Business it said,  In 
executing or transmitting applications  on your behalf  to third parties, we will take all 
reasonable steps to ensure that we obtain  the best possible result for you.  
Here, I believe the crux of this complaint is whether the new SIPP shouldve been  
established in the first place. And, for the reasons  Ive set out above, I dont believe it 
shouldve. And I consider  IFS advice to switch to a new SIPP was instrumental in the 
inappropriate investment going  ahead. 
I recognise that it can be argued Business  S actions may have  also separately caused 
some of Mr Cs loss. So Ive considered whether  I should apportion  only part of the 
responsibility for compensating the loss to IFS. In the circumstances, though,  I think it fair to 
make an award for the whole loss against IFS. Mr Cs complaint about Business S has been 
considered by the FSCS. As a result, I understand he has received £2,051.37 in respect  of 
the money he held in cash  with Business S; he hasnt received a payment in respect  of the 
OWG bond.  This has been credited to his Provider  J SIPP  and theres nothing to suggest  
hes likely to receive further compensation regarding his Business S claim. An apportionment 
of only part of the loss to IFS would risk leaving Mr C out of pocket as his original investment 
with Business S was, as I understand  it, £130,000. With this in mind   and recognising  also 
that Mr C wouldnt have  lost out at all but for IFS failings  I think  apportioning responsibility 
to IFS for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case. 
My understanding is that as the FSCS  has made an award to Mr C it would seek  to reclaim 
any compensation Mr C received from third parties which related to that claim. So, I dont 
think Mr C would benefit from double  recovery. However, I think its reasonable that if the 
FSCS doesnt seek to recover further  compensation Mr C is paid, Mr C should provide an 
undertaking to repay IFS any compensation he receives (in combination from both)  over and 
above his total losses as calculated by the method Ive outlined  below.
Ref: DRN178576115Fair compensation
My aim is to, as far as possible, put Mr C back in the position he would probably now be in, if 
IFS, as his financial adviser, had met its responsibilities to act in his best interests, treat him 
fairly and reasonably and provide suitable advice. 
I think Mr C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what  he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr C's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should IFS do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, IFS must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark  shown.  If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
         IFS  should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, IFS should  pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation  and any interest.  The amount  paid should allow for the 
effect of charges  and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If IFS is unable to pay the compensation into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr C £200 for the trouble and upset caused by the failings that occurred.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If IFS deducts income tax from the interest,  
it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. IFS should give Mr C a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SIPP mixedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  date of 
investmentdate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of my 
Ref: DRN178576116Income Total 
Return Indexfinal decision 
to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) or the subject 
of a dispute while a company is being  wound  up. So, the actual  value should  be assumed to 
be nil to arrive at fair compensation.  Ordinarily I would say IFS should  take ownership  of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider, but I 
dont think its likely  this will be possible  here. So the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. 
IFS may require that Mr C provides an undertaking to pay IFS any amount he may receive 
from the illiquid investments in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. IFS will need 
to meet  any costs in drawing up the undertaking.  
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if IFS totals all those  payments and deducts that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Ref: DRN178576117Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr C's circumstances  and risk attitude.  
My final decision  
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Independent 
Financial Strategies  Ltd pays  the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation should  
be calculated as set out above.  My provisional  decision is that Independent Financial 
Strategies Ltd should pay Mr C the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum 
of £150,000 (including distress and/or inconvenience but excluding  costs) plus any interest 
on the balance  as set out above. 
If Independent  Financial Strategies Ltd does not pay the recommended amount, then any 
investment currently illiquid  should  be retained  by Mr C. This is until any future benefit that 
he may receive from the investment  together with the compensation paid by Independent 
Financial Strategies  Ltd (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set 
out above. 
Independent Financial Strategies Ltd may request  an undertaking from Mr C that either  he 
repays to Independent Financial Strategies Ltd the net amount he may receive from the 
investment thereafter,  or if possible, transfers  the investment at that point.
Mr C should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension  plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I intend to recommend that Independent Financial Strategies Ltd pays  Mr C the 
balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It does not bind Independent  
Financial Strategies  Ltd. It is unlikely  that Mr C can accept my decision and go to court to 
ask for the balance.  Mr C may want to consider getting independent  legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  this decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1785761