K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that Cabot Credit  Management  Group Limited defaulted her account.
background
Miss D had a credit  card with a bank I will call N. She fell into financial difficulties and 
entered into an arrangement to pay in 2017.  The account was sold to Cabot in June 2017 
and recently Miss D discovered  she had a default  on her credit file when she was trying to 
obtain a mortgage.
She complained to both N and Cabot. N said that she had missed a payment of £20 in May 
2017, but as the account had been  sold to Cabot it had been responsible for registering the 
default. She then brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommend it be upheld.
She said it appeared that the payment arrangement  had been set up in March 2016 and 
hadnt been broken when the debt was sold. She explained  that data reported on a credit  file 
must be fair, accurate and consistent. An account can be reported in default when a 
consumer is between three and six months  in arrears. However, where a reduced payment 
plan has been  agreed, the reporting should  reflect that the consumer is in a repayment plan.
In this case, Cabot  took over the account  on 27 June 2017  and now says that it acted on Ns 
instruction when it recorded the account as in default. However the investigator hadnt seen 
any evidence of this instruction.  Nor was there any evidence of a default notice being served 
on Miss D. She noted Miss Ds credit file recorded in June 2017  Transaction  not received  
this month.
She also identified  an email between Cabot and N which indicated  that for the tranche of 
debts sold it used the date of sale as the default date. This suggested that the account  may 
have been incorrectly  defaulted. She suggested Cabot remove the default and pay Miss D 
£300 compensation.
Cabot didnt agree and said it been  in contact with N and it had been established that Cabot 
was acting on Ns instructions. The investigator  said that although the evidence  was open to 
interpretation she accepted that N had instructed Cabot  to default the account. However, 
there was no evidence that Miss D had been  notified, nor was there  evidence  that the 
account should have been  defaulted.  She said she didnt think  Cabot  should  pay Miss D 
compensation, but that the default  should  be removed. Cabot didnt agree and said Miss D 
had been in arrears  for some time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear there was and possibly still is some uncertainty as to whether a default was 
authorised by N. Miss Ds account was part of a bulk transaction  and instructions were given 
for a wide range of debts. Although the Investigator has accepted  that it was at the very least 
possible that N had authorised the default  it has not been demonstrated beyond reasonable 
doubt that this did happen.
Ref: DRN17282902I have seen no evidence  that notice was served  on Miss D and given she adhered to the 
payment arrangement save for one month  I find it surprising that the account would have 
been defaulted. However, I could understand it being shown as being subject to a payment 
arrangement. 
Therefore, in the absence of sufficient evidence  to show that the account was correctly  
defaulted I believe it should be removed from her credit file. I accept that Cabot acted on the 
perceived instructions  of N and so I agree that it is not responsible for paying  Miss D 
compensation, but as it placed  the default  it should  now remove  it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Cabot Credit Management Group 
Limited to remove the default and record the account as in a payment arrangement.  Under  
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Miss D to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 13 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1728290