K820x#14complaint
Mrs F is concerned at the amount outstanding  on her secured loan account that she holds 
with OneSavings Bank Plc (OSB). She thinks the balance is higher than it should be, 
especially as she made a lump sum payment towards it.
background
In September  2002, Mrs F and her husband  (who I am sorry to note passed  away  in 2015) 
took out a secured loan with another lender. OSB took over the account in November  2015.
Mr and Mrs F borrowed £35,000 and in addition to that, £4,392  for payment protection 
insurance bringing the total loan to £39,392.74. The loan was to be repaid  by 180 monthly  
payments, which  started one month  after the loan was advanced. The contractual  monthly 
payment (CMP) was set at £433.68.
The loan account fell into significant arrears  after Mr and Mrs F werent  able to pay their full 
CMP. In 2010 the arrears  balance was £6,092 and by 2014  the account  was in arrears  by 
£14,037.12. OSB  set up various arrangements to pay which  are agreed monthly instalments, 
either to allow  them  to pay less than the monthly  payment for an agreed  period, or made 
with a view to clearing  the arrears  within the remaining term of the loan.  
OSB said that from February   October  2011,  where  Mr and Mrs F were  paying £200 per 
month, they didnt apply  any fees or charges during  this period in order to try and help 
Mr and Mrs F.  
A lump sum payment  of £14,961.16  was made by Mr and Mrs F in January 2014.  The 
balance outstanding on the loan at that date (once  the lump sum was applied) was 
£26,448.01. 
Mrs F complained to OSB  as she said the balance was incorrect.  OSB  explained  that the 
loan account was in arrears  from 2009   2014 and because interest was charged  on a daily 
basis on the outstanding balance, it would  impact the total amount payable.  So they didnt 
think the balance  was incorrect.
Mrs F didnt  agree so she brought  the complaint to our service.  It was looked at by one of 
our investigators who didnt think that the complaint should be upheld as she thought the 
outstanding balance was calculated correctly.
Mrs F was unhappy. She said that she still thinks the amount outstanding  is incorrect  
because of the lump  sum payment that was made.
She asked  for an ombudsman to review the case so it has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint Mrs F, I 
wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN17642332limits to what  were able to consider
There are some limits on the complaints  were  able to consider. So firstly  its important to set 
out what we can, and cant, consider in respect of Mrs Fs complaint. 
Were only able to consider complaints about  businesses that are covered by our rules. 
When Mr and Mrs F took out their loan, the original provider  wasnt covered by our 
jurisdiction. So we werent able to consider any complaints  about  it at all at that time.
The lender  only came under our consumer credit  jurisdiction on 6 April 2007. So this was the 
date from which we could  consider complaints about it  but only where  the complaint 
related to a credit  agreement that was regulated  by the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
The lender  remained  only in our consumer credit  jurisdiction until 1 April 2014  when it then 
became subject to our compulsory jurisdiction. From  this date onwards,  we could consider 
complaints about  any activities  covered by our rules  not just those related to credit  
agreements regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Mr and Mrs Fs loan wasnt  regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  It was unregulated, 
as stated on the credit agreement. Thats because Mr and Mrs F borrowed more  than 
£25,000, and their loan began before April 2008, when loans above that limit were  
unregulated.
So were  unable to consider any aspect  of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  that relates to anything  
that happened before 1 April 2014.
The lender  remained  in our compulsory jurisdiction  from this date up until the date 
Mr and Mrs Fs loan was transferred to OSB. And OSB has been in our compulsory  
jurisdiction throughout  the period it owned the loan. So in considering Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint, we can look at the actions of either the original lender and/or OSB  from 1 April 
2014 onwards.
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint covers actions taken by both the original lender and OSB. But 
were dealing with everything theyve raised in this one complaint against OSB, as it has 
accepted responsibility for any issues in connection  with the loan  even if the other lender 
owned the account at the time.
the outstanding balance
As I previously explained, the loan was due to be repaid by 180 monthly payments. The loan 
completed in September 2002  so it was due to be repaid in September 2017. 
Mr and Mrs F paid a lump sum of £14,938.16 in January 2014. Having a look at the loan 
statements from April 2014, the account  still had an outstanding balance of £26,378.92. 
Having looked  through the statements, I cant see that anything  has been charged  or 
calculated incorrectly which would make  me think that the balance was higher than it 
shouldve been.
Ref: DRN17642333I think the main issue here unfortunately, is that Mr and Mrs F werent able to make  the 
agreed payment  required each month. Generally where this happens it means the balance  
doesnt reduce  as it should  and so the balance stays higher than was intended when the 
loan was taken  out. Interest is then charged on that higher balance.  And, the next month,  the 
same happens, and the balance is now higher  by two monthly payments than it should have 
been, attracting  more  extra interest  and so the balance increases rather  than reduces 
month by month.  Over time, this can have a significant  impact on the balance  outstanding  
due the compounding  affect.
The loan was due to be repaid in September 2017 but is still yet to be cleared. On top of not 
being able to pay the full CMP, additional interest  and fees would have been applied  to the 
loan. I can only look at charges and interest  applied since April 2014. I think the charges 
applied, given the additional work carried out by the relevant  lender  in managing the 
account, were fair and reasonably applied.  In terms of the interest charged,  OSB  are entitled 
to charge this on the full outstanding balance  in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
loan. So I dont think they acted unfairly in doing so.
Information from the file notes show  that in November 2018, the balance was £18,923.00.  
Mrs F has provided  OSB with income  and expenditure details which show  how much she 
can afford each month. She is currently paying  £100  per month towards  the outstanding 
balance on the account. Even if OSB were to stop charging interest  and fees, with the 
amount that Mrs F is currently paying towards  the loan, it would take a considerable amount 
of time for the loan to be paid off. 
I think it would be beneficial for Mrs F to keep  an open dialogue with OSB to try and come to 
an agreement on how the outstanding balance will be paid off. I appreciate  she is trying to 
sell her property at the moment. But she may also find it useful to contact the free advice 
services that the investigator gave her previously.  If Mrs F would like this information again,  I 
can provide it to her.
From everything I have reviewed, I havent seen anything  to suggest the way the 
outstanding balance was calculated on Mr and Mrs Fs loan account was incorrect or unfair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1764233