K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Pinnacle  Insurance  Plc turned down her pet insurance claim.
My references to Pinnacle include its agent. 
background
In August  2014  Mrs M took out a time limited pet insurance policy with Pinnacle  to cover her 
dog. Pinnacle excluded cover for skin problems and any other  subsequently  related 
condition.
In 2018 Mrs M arranged to have  her dog tested for allergies. She made  a claim for the vets 
consultation fees and the cost of the testing. Pinnacle reviewed the vets clinical notes and 
then turned down  her claim. It said that the main  cause  of her dogs skin problems  had been  
an allergy, and so it wasnt covered under the skin problems exclusion. 
Mrs M didnt  agree and came to us. She said shed had the tests to find out what  her dog 
was allergic to, and the allergy had caused a whole  host of problems including weight loss 
and low mood.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She thought Pinnacle  had fairly  rejected it, based 
on information given  by the vet and on the claim form. Mrs M didnt agree so the complaints 
come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the points raised  by Mrs M. Having done so I think Pinnacle did 
fairly reject her claim. Ill explain my reasons.
The vets clinical notes  show that Mrs Ms dog had experienced skin problems before Mrs M 
took out the policy with Pinnacle.  This is why Pinnacle said from the outset that the following 
conditions, and any other subsequently  related  condition, are also excluded: skin problems. 
A condition is defined  in the policy  as an illness whether or not it results in a diagnosis, 
where an illness is a physical disease, sickness, abnormality, infection or failure which is not 
caused by accidental injury. This includes any symptoms, whether  or not diagnosed.
Mrs M says that Pinnacle didnt list what it considered to be skin problems. I dont  think this 
term had to be specifically  defined.  I will use the ordinary everyday meaning  which  is a 
problem affecting  the skin.
Also, the policy clearly  states that Pinnacle doesnt cover any cost relating to investigative 
tests, unless they are to diagnose a condition  due to specific existing symptoms and the 
condition is covered under this policy.
Mrs M says that the vet fees and the cost of blood tests were  to diagnose a separate  
condition of allergy.  This wasnt excluded  under  the policy. Shes  explained that her dogs 
symptoms included weight loss and low mood.  She says that the tests  show that he doesnt  
Ref: DRN19884242have a skin condition but rather  several different allergies to several different grasses and 
house mites.
As Ive mentioned  the clinical notes show that the dogs longstanding  skin problems date 
back to before Mrs M took out the Pinnacle policy. These skin problems included  pruritus  
(severe itching of the skin as a symptom of various ailments),  red patches of skin and 
alopecia (hair loss or baldness). Ive seen vets notes from 2014 and these problems appear 
from then. 
The vets notes also show that the vet discussed with Mrs M the possibility of allergies in the 
context of the dogs  skin problems a number of times:
February 2015 the vet discussed  the ongoing skin disease  (pruritus, red skin in 
patches and alopecia),  suspected the dog was allergic and suggested  
antihistamines. Mrs M thought the dogs diet of raw food was helping slightly.  A 
treatment was suggested in case of mites.
March 2015  the vet referred to a skin flare up and suggested blood tests  for allergy 
testing.
August 2016   the dog had an ear infection,  and theres a reference  to a discussion 
about skin problems in the past and suspecting  of skin allergies so at the moment  on 
a diet with potatoes, veggies, raw meat etc. The vet suggested a hypoallergenic diet 
and that the dog should put on some  weight. 
November 2016  the dog had put some  weight on but had another ear infection. The 
vet advised the dog had an incurable chronic  skin disease which she had had for 
years and would be controlled with long-term treatment but not cured. 
March 2017   at an appointment for the dogs  skin the vet notes on going  allergy, 
that the dog had been treated only with shampoo and local treatment with diet. The 
dog hadnt had any tests or oral mediations  such as steroids.  The vet lists the 
problems with the dogs skin and notes that she has generalised allergy/atopy  (atopy 
is a form of allergy in which a hypersensitivity reaction might occur  in a part of the 
body not connected with the allergen). The vet noted this didnt appear to be affected 
by the season of the year, but Mrs M recalled more symptoms over winter. They 
discussed bloods  to identify allergens and then immunotherapy. Mrs M would think 
about it. The vet prescribed a treatment for the itching. 
April 2017  Mrs M reported that a treatment prescribed by the vet had cleared up 
the dogs skin but after the course  had completed the dog started scratching again.  
The vet notes that Mrs M is very keen for allergy blood  tests but cant afford  at the 
moment. She would continue with the prescribed treatment  in the meantime.
April 2018  Mrs M saw the vet for a possible  allergy test. The vet notes that there 
was a long history of skin disease, and although  the prescribed  treatment works well 
Mrs M cant afford it long term. They discussed  allergy testing, and the vet said theyd 
have to expand  the tests if there  was a positive result. Mrs M declined food allergy 
bloods, just indoor/outdoor today.  The vet notes  the dog had lost weight, was 
pruritic, had marked skin changes and alopecia.
Ref: DRN19884243So although  there is a reference  to the dog having lost weight I consider the veterinary 
evidence over the years shows  that the allergy  testing was required in connection with the 
dogs longstanding history of skin problems.  
This means  that I think Pinnacle  was fairly  entitled to rely on the policy exclusion because 
the allergy testing  was related to the skin problems.  Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M once  
again, but I think Pinnacle did fairly  turn down her claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1988424