K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc blocked  her money transfer.  When  she asked  why 
she received confusing information.
background
Mrs B wanted to transfer £1200 to another account.  But Santander didnt put the transfer 
through. And it wouldnt authorise the cheques she wrote instead.  Mrs B said Santander told 
her the transfer  amount was too large. But it also told her shed  provided  the wrong account 
information. Santander blocked  her account and she had to provide identification  from 
overseas to unblock it. And the bank claimed  Mrs B had asked it to stop the cheques   
which she hadnt. So she wants £1000 compensation  for her trouble and upset.
Santander said itd blocked the account for security reasons after the transfer of £1200 had 
failed. Thats why the cheques were also stopped. Santander said the block had been 
removed after Mrs B had provided identification. And the transfer  had then gone through. 
Santander confirmed  the account  hadnt been closed. But it accepted  Mrs B had received 
conflicting information from the bank  and apologised if its letters had caused  any confusion. 
Santander said itd credited Mrs Bs account with £150 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs B wasnt  satisfied  with Santanders  response. So she contacted our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. He felt the actions Santander had taken  were  reasonable 
in the circumstances. It was trying  to make sure the transfer had been requested by Mrs B. 
And it had to comply  with UK money  laundering regulations. But he did feel Santanders 
letters and phone  calls had been misleading.  And he felt the £150 Santander had offered for 
any distress and inconvenience was fair.
Mrs B didnt agree. She felt the compensation wasnt enough. So shes  asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B wanted to transfer some money elsewhere.  But the transfer  failed and she received 
confusing information  from Santander.  When she tried to write some  cheques they were also 
blocked. And the bank sent her letters saying shed asked for them to be stopped  even 
though she hadnt. So Ive looked  carefully  at everything Mrs B and Santander  have said to 
see whats happened. 
Santander, like other  banks, has sophisticated computer systems which  try and highlight  
when there  might be a problem with a payment. From what Ive seen it appears Santanders 
automated system stopped the transfer because the amount was outside  of its normal  limit. 
Santander tried to contact  Mrs B. And when  it couldnt get in touch with her the bank placed  
a temporary block on the account. Thats why the cheques also failed  Santander was 
protecting Mrs Bs account until itd checked  everything was okay. 
When Santander spoke  to Mrs B it asked  her to provide some identification. I can see this 
mustve been difficult for Mrs B as she was overseas.  But she was able to confirm her 
identity and the transfer then took place without  any further difficulty. 
Ref: DRN14971902I realise how frustrating and inconvenient this mustve been for Mrs B. But Im sure she will 
agree its important banks  take the necessary precautions to safeguard customer  accounts.  I 
cant really say Santander did anything wrong  by placing a temporary block  on payments 
until it could confirm everything was okay. It was trying to protect Mrs Bs account.
I do agree  Santander  caused some confusion by giving  conflicting information over the 
telephone and by suggested it was Mrs B who had asked for the cheques to be stopped.  
The banks letters are somewhat generic and include  the words  you asked us to stop the 
cheque which in this case certainly wasnt true. Santander has apologised for misleading  
Mrs B when she asked why the transfer had failed  and for sending standard letters which 
didnt reflect whatd  happened in this case. 
I can see Santander was able to process the transfer immediately once  itd received the 
necessary documentation from Mrs B. But Santanders service wasnt of the level Im sure it 
aspires to. And its only right that Mrs B is compensated for the trouble and upset shes  
suffered because of the misleading and confusing information she received from Santander.
I realise Mrs B would like a higher amount. But based on what Ive seen, I think Santanders  
offer of £150 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  And its in line with the sort of 
award our service would  normally make. I think Santander has done enough to put things 
right. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1497190