K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that they were mis-sold a reviewable whole of life policy by John
Drew FCII Consulting  Chartered Insurance, referred  to as the business.
They say they were told that there  would be a final option   a final increase  beyond  which  
point the level of cover and premiums would not change. In other  words,  they say they 
werent made aware that their premiums could continue to increase.
background
In 1999, Mr and Mrs E were advised  by the business to take out a reviewable whole of life 
policy with a third-party insurer. The policy remains live today and subject to reviews.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Despite what Mr and Mrs E say, hes seen no evidence of a final increase option 
feature with this policy. 
The policy documentation  provided  made  clear  that the monthly premium of £25.27   
providing £55,000 worth  of cover  was only guaranteed for 10 years, until the first 
review, after which point  the premiums were  likely to increase significantly.
Any issue that Mr and Mrs E might have about  the quality of the documentation  from 
the insurer isnt something he can consider in this complaint  which  is against  the 
business responsible for the sale of the policy. 
The policy as it stands  will continue to be reviewable and the premiums  likely to 
increase  at the discretion of the insurer   not the seller.  
Mr and Mrs E disagreed with investigators  view and raised  a number of points in response.  
But having  considered their additional  points the investigator wasnt  persuaded to change  his 
mind. In summary, he said:
The firm and the adviser were regulated. Issues that Mr and Mrs E refer to  such  as 
the setup of the trust  arent  relevant to this case, and dont mean that policy  was 
mis-sold/unsuitable. 
Hes unable to comment on the reasons  why they decided to re-purchase the policy  
from the trustee,  or why they chose the option to increase their premium at review.  
Despite what they say, hes seen nothing to suggest that the thered be a final 
increase and that the level of cover  and the premiums would remain the same.  
Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the investigators  view.  In short, theyve  submitted  the following 
key points for consideration by an ombudsman:  
Theyre not seeking large compensation from the business. They just want to be put 
in the position they wouldve been  in had the business not mis-sold  the policy. 
They just wanted to know whether the adviser  was regulated. Even  if the regulatory 
rules have  changed, they must be considered as they were then. 
They appreciate  they increased the premiums  after review, but nowhere were they 
told that this policy  would become less useful to them as they got older. 
The increased premiums generated commission for the firm/their successors  for the 
advice they offered,  so the business owed them (Mr and Mrs E) a duty of care.  
Ref: DRN10001572The issue of contributory  negligence hasnt been explored.   
Their points  relating  to their re-purchase  of the policy in 2015 from their trustee in 
bankruptcy  have  been totally ignored.  
The investigator seems intent on discrediting  them. Theyve not had the opportunity 
to read or respond to the handwritten response  supplied by the business. 
They were surprised  by the investigators dismissal  in an aggressive way - of their 
quest for justice.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mrs E say, Im unable  to 
safely say that they were  mis-sold life cover,  on the basis  that the level of cover and 
premiums wouldnt change from a point in future.  
Mr and Mrs E have  provided detailed submissions  to support the complaint, which  Ive read 
and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont  take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach  a decision  in this case.  I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt  
mean Im not considering  the pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence  presented  by them and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent,  fair and reasonable decision based on the facts  of the case, rather 
than take any sides. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  happened.  
The key policy documentation  which in my view is clear, fair and not misleading  made  
clear the reviewable  nature and operation of the policy. I note it made clear that the monthly 
premium and cover were only guaranteed for ten years before the first review of the policy,  
and thereafter  the premiums would increase. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr and Mrs E were  told anything  to the contrary or that they 
were told that there would be a final option  or a final increase  after which point the level 
of cover and premium would remain the same. In other words, Ive seen nothing  to say that 
there was a cap beyond  which premiums  wouldnt  increase.  This isnt how a reviewable 
whole of life policy operates,  and any suggestion that it does  goes against  the paperwork 
provided.  
Ref: DRN10001573In this instance something as fundamental as a future premium freeze is something that Id 
expect to see prominently displayed  in the documentation  as a key feature  because its 
so unusual and unique, but theres  no mention of it. 
Im aware of the point Mr E makes  about receipt  of the paperwork regarding the policy,  but 
Ive seen no reason  to think  that it wouldnt have been sent by the business.  Even  if there 
were issues  with the post  whether (or not) linked to the home  renovation work that Mr E 
says was happening around  the time they took out the policy  I cant  blame  the business for 
this. Its not responsible for the actions of a third-party postal service.  
But if Mr and Mr E didnt  receive any paperwork relating to the reviewable nature  and 
operation of the policy, Id expect them to get in touch with the business  to find out what  was 
happening. But on balance  I think its unlikely  that they wouldnt have received any 
paperwork relating  to the nature of the policy. 
Im aware that they received the review  letters, and on numerous occasions  chose of their 
own volition, to increase  the premiums. In the circumstances, I dont think  business  was 
obliged to offer advice  at each review, just because it was responsible for the sale of the 
policy. Its not what it was obliged to do. So, whether  or not Mr and Mrs E paid a higher 
premium to maintain/increase  the level of cover  was a matter  for them  and their finances. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs E also take issue with documentation received from the insurer, 
including the review letters, but this isnt something I can consider in this case  against the 
seller. But in my opinion, nothing was mentioned of the final increase,  probably because it 
didnt exist and wasnt relevant to their policy. 
I also note that theyve raised  several  additional points including relating to the status  of the 
adviser and the set-up of the trust and re-purchase  of the policy  from the trustee, but these 
are additional  points that theyll have  to give the business an opportunity  to properly  respond  
to, if they really wish to pursue these matters  before referring  any potential complaint to 
our service  if theyre  unhappy with the business response. 
In any event, if it assists Mr and Mrs E, I dont think the events  of 2015 are relevant to the 
sale of the policy in 1999. So, whilst I appreciate their frustration at the investigators  view, 
and the difficult  time they went through, I dont think his points relating to relevance were  
unreasonable.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs E thought the policy would  work in particular way and it doesnt,  but 
on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant blame the business  for this. 
Im mindful of what Mr E says about the business handwritten responses and not knowing 
what they were or having an opportunity to respond. But I dont think this is entirely accurate 
as I summarised the contents of the business response in my last jurisdiction decision. So, 
Mr and Mrs E have  had an opportunity to respond if they wished  to.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs E will be thoroughly  unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isn't what  they want to hear. But on 
the face of the available evidence, and on balance,  Im unable to uphold this complaint and 
give them  what they want.
Ref: DRN10001574my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 April 2021.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1000157