K820x#14complaint
Mr C1 and Ms C complain that Scottish Equitable PLC (trading as AEGON) didnt pay them  
any part of the death benefit  from their late fathers pension  plan when  he passed away.  
They also complain about the correspondence received from AEGON  which  suggested it 
was considering their claim  when  in fact it had already paid out the death  benefit to the late 
Mr Cs wife. 
background
The late Mr C took out a personal pension  plan in 1989. He named his first wife, Ms K, as 
the beneficiary. In 2008 he asked for a valuation in connection with divorce proceedings. In 
2010 he asked  for a further valuation. In 2010 he and his first wife, Ms K, were divorced. He 
then remarried. 
In 2017 Mr C senior sadly passed away.  His children have confirmed he left no will. In 2018 
his wife, Mrs C, wrote  to the business and made a claim on the plan. The death benefit for 
the pension plan was paid out to his wife. 
Then in November 2018 his former  wife Ms K wrote to AEGON and asked about the pension 
plan. She informed AEGON that the late Mr C had two children. AEGON wrote back  to Ms K 
and asked for some further information.  Ms K provided that information. AEGON  then 
explained that it had already paid out the proceeds of the plan.
Ms K complained to AEGON on her childrens behalf.  She said it should  have investigated  
the claim more thoroughly  as the late Mr Cs children had a claim on the death  benefit of the 
pension plan. Ms K also complained that the correspondence from AEGON  had led her to 
believe it was considering her childrens  claim.  Ms K said she had to produce various pieces 
of information  some of which were  distressing  for her as it brought  back  painful memories  of 
the divorce process. 
AEGON upheld her complaint in part. It agreed  the initial correspondence to Ms K was 
misleading and apologised for giving  Ms K the impression that it hadnt settled the claim.  
AEGON said it would pay Ms K £200  for the trouble and upset caused  as a result.
But AEGON  said having reviewed the matter  it still felt it had settled the claim  correctly  and 
followed the relevant  processes. AEGON said when  it had received the information  provided 
by Ms K it had reviewed its initial decision. It concluded that the new information didnt 
change its original decision. AEGON said if it had been in possession of that information  
when it was originally  settling the complaint it would still have reached the same conclusion.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and didnt think  it should be upheld. She noted 
that Ms K had been a named beneficiary  on the pension plan but the couple had since  
divorced and the court order had not stated Ms K had an interest  in the plan.
The investigator said AEGON, as the administrator  of the pension plan, had discretion to 
award the proceeds of the plan to the person/s who met their eligibility criteria. She noted 
that AEGON had been notified after Mr C sadly passed away  and had considered  who 
should receive the death benefit.
Ref: DRN14229362The investigator said AEGON had looked at the definition of a dependant under its personal 
pension scheme  rules to help determine who was an eligible dependant. It had taken Ms K 
into consideration as she had been  named on the plan. But it concluded that Mr Cs widow 
qualified as a dependant as she was the late Mr Cs spouse and was financially dependent  
on him prior to his death. The investigator  also said there was no evidence  at the time to 
suggest there were  any other dependants and AEGON wasnt aware that the late Mr C had 
children.
The investigator noted that Ms K contacted  AEGON  and it had sent her a claim form. 
AEGON had assessed the information  she had provided and then informed Ms K it had 
already paid out the proceeds  of the plan.  
The investigator said she understood why Ms K was unhappy  with the communication from 
AEGON and she appreciated  that the matter had been very stressful for Ms K, Ms C and 
Mr C1. She felt AEGON couldve communicated their decision more  compassionately. But 
the investigator thought AEGONs decision was based on Ms C and Mr C1s age (above 23) 
at the time of the late Mr Cs death and that they had confirmed they werent  dependent  on 
their late father.
The investigator noted that another  pension provider referred  to by Ms K had come to a 
different decision.  But she said this was a different plan. The investigator was satisfied that 
AEGON had applied  its scheme rules  and said it was ultimately up to AEGON to weigh up 
the evidence and decide what view to take. Overall she was not persuaded that AEGON had 
failed to exercise its discretion properly. 
Ms C and Mr C1 disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
Ms K said, on their behalf, they should  have received some of the death benefit  as had 
happened with a similar pension  policy. She said AEGON should  have contacted  her as she 
was recorded  as the nominated beneficiary  and it should have asked whether she was 
receiving spousal  maintenance and whether there  were children. Ms K said the fact his 
widow had received the late Mr Cs estate had no relevance regarding his pension. Ms K 
also said that the compensation offered did not reflect  the stress and inconvenience caused.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint was referred to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The late Mr C had a personal pension plan with AEGON. In 2017 he sadly passed away  and 
the death benefit for his plan was paid out in 2018.
Ms C and Mr C1 are understandably unhappy  that none of the benefit  was paid to them even 
though they are the late Mr Cs children. They are also unhappy with the way AEGON  dealt 
with their claim as it didnt tell them it had already  paid out the proceeds and asked them to 
complete forms and provide evidence. 
Ref: DRN14229363Payment of death benefit 
I consider AEGON had discretion as to who it should pay the death benefit  to. But it had to 
act according to the personal pension scheme rules. Those rules said :
11. (a) Where any lump sum benefit  is to be paid following the death of a Member or a 
Dependant and it falls to the Scheme Administrator to decide to whom  the benefit  is payable, 
the Scheme Administrator may, but is not bound to, take into account any selection of 
Beneficiaries or recipients  made  by the Member or by any other party  nominated by the 
Member for this purpose.  In making  any selection or payment hereunder the Scheme 
Administrator shall not be acting as a trustee and shall not be obliged to enquire  or 
investigate (other than to take reasonable steps  to ascertain that any proposed payee is a 
person entitled  to payment in terms of the Rules) and shall not be liable to account in any 
way to any person  for any selection  made.
(b) Any payment  by the Scheme Administrator in terms of the Rules shall constitute a full, 
complete and effective  discharge of the obligations of the Scheme Administrator in respect 
thereof
So I think AEGON had to take reasonable steps to check that the late Mr Cs widow was 
entitled to payment of the death benefit.
The rules  gave the definition of a dependant as follows:
Dependant (alternatively  referred to as a Survivor') means in relation  to the scheme  any of 
the following:
(a) a person who was married to, or a civil partner of, the member at the date of the 
member's death;
(b) a child of the member  if such child has not reached 23, or has reached that age but, in 
the opinion of the scheme administrator, was at the date of the member  s death dependent  
on the member because of physical or mental impairment;
(c) a person who was not married to or a civil partner of the member at the date of the death  
and is not a child of the member, but who, in the opinion of the scheme administrator, at the 
date of the member's death was financially dependent  on the member or had a financial 
relationship with the member which was one of mutual dependence or was dependent on 
the member because of physical  or mental  impairment.
AEGON asked Mr Cs widow to provide documentation to evidence her entitlement which  
she duly it. The information provided showed  that they were married at the time of the late 
Mr Cs death. AEGON  was aware  that Ms K was named  on the original plan application  as 
the sole nominated  beneficiary of the death  benefit.  But AEGON  was also aware that there 
had been divorce  proceedings as the late Mr C had contacted AEGON at that time and the 
information provided showed that he had remarried. 
There was no indication  that Ms K had been  granted an interest  in the pension  plan as part 
of the divorce  settlement.  If that was the case I think it is more likely than not that AEGON  
would have been notified at the time the assets were settled in the divorce proceedings. 
AEGON said it had not received any notification of any pension  share  order.  
Ref: DRN14229364There was also no indication for the plan documentation  that the late Mr C had children and 
as it was not acting  as a trustee AEGON  was not obliged  to enquire or investigate. So I dont 
think it failed to follow the rules of its personal pension plan scheme. 
When AEGON  received the information from Ms C, Mr C1and  Ms K it looked at the matter 
again. Ms C and Mr C1 were over 23 years and had confirmed that they were not dependent 
on their late father at the time of his death.  So AEGON concluded they did not fall within the 
definition of a dependant.  As  AEGON  considered  and applied the criteria under its scheme 
rules I dont think it acted unreasonably  or unfairly  in the circumstances.
I can see why this outcome feels so unfair  to Ms C and Mr C1 who havent received anything  
from their late fathers plan and I do sympathise. But I dont think  AEGON had acted 
incorrectly in paying out the proceeds as it did and then later on in deciding not to change  its 
original decision.
Communication from AEGON
AEGON said in its letter sent in response to their claim:
At the time you contacted  us, we had already made our decision and paid the lump sum 
death benefit. Our decision  was based  upon  the information we had received and we were  
not informed that Mr           had any children.
However, although we cannot change what we've done, we felt that it was important and 
proper that we obtained whatever information you could  provide us.
I do have a lot of sympathy for Ms C, Mr C1 and Ms K. At what  must have been a very 
difficult time they were  asked to provide information  to support a claim and Ms C and Mr C1 
werent told that their fathers plan had already been paid out. Then  they were  given  a fairly 
short response to their claim which didnt really  explain things fully and wasnt  very 
sympathetic to their situation. I also appreciate that for Ms K it was upsetting to locate 
documentation relating to her divorce and that it brought back  some  painful memories. 
I think the underlying  cause was that AEGON  sent them  a standard claim letter rather than 
one individualised  to their particular situation.  That standard  letter  (because it was a 
standard letter)  was worded in a way which gave the impression  that the proceeds hadnt 
been paid out. But I think what AEGON was actually doing was asking for information so it 
could review whether  or not it had paid the proceeds out correctly. When it received that 
information from Ms C, Mr C1 and Ms K it assessed it against the rules  of its personal 
pension scheme. AEGON concluded  that it had paid the proceeds  out correctly.  So it didnt 
change its original decision.
Unfortunately that wasnt communicated  very clearly or sympathetically to Ms C, Mr C1 and 
Ms K. But AEGON have  accepted that their communication was lacking and have offered 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
I do think Ms C, Mr C1 and Ms K were caused  trouble  and upset by the correspondence  
received and this was compounded by the difficult situation itself; namely that the late Mr C 
had sadly passed  away. I also take into account that Ms K found the process particularly 
distressing as it brought up some  difficult  memories from her divorce. 
Ref: DRN14229365But I recognise that AEGON apologised and offered compensation  at an early stage. I also 
take into account that in order for AEGON  to review whether  it had paid out the death benefit 
correctly it wouldve required them to provide that information in any event. The difference 
being they would have  been better  informed  as to the background around the information 
being provided. So overall I think £200  is fair and reasonable  compensation in the 
circumstances for the trouble and upset  caused. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Ms C and Mr C1s complaint against Scottish Equitable  Plc (trading 
as AEGON) is not upheld  for the reasons outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C and Mr C1 to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2020.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1422936