K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr and Mrs N say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs N took out a mortgage in joint names in 1995. At the same  time they took out a 
PPI policy.
This policy covered  them if they couldnt  work through an accident,  sickness  or if they lost 
their jobs.  It cost £27.80  initially  and would have paid them  the monthly benefit of £400 split 
equally between them for up to 36 months  for accident and sickness  or for up to 12 months if 
they lost their job on making a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld but he said that Santander got a 
high level of commission from the PPI. As it didnt tell Mr and Mrs N about that, Santander 
had offered to pay back any commission that was more than half the cost of the policy and 
our adjudicator said he thought that was a fair way to resolve this matter. Unhappy  with this 
view Mr and Mrs N asked  for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ns case.
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs N will be disappointed Ive decided the policy  wasnt  mis-
sold. I will explain why.
Santander has provided a copy of the mortgage offer and the separate application form for 
the PPI. Mr and Mrs Ns application form contains  a section  6 headed policies  for your 
protection and there is a part in this section about  the PPI. In answer to the question do you 
wish to take out Paymentcare? the form has been ticked  yes. There was also an option to 
choose no. And a separate  Paymentcare Application Form has been completed and 
Mr and Mrs N have chosen  the benefit  and also filled in the direct  debit form. The forms have 
been signed and dated. So overall, I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs N didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand  why 
they cant remember this.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs N. That meant  it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for them. It also had to give Mr and Mrs N clear enough information so they could 
decide for themselves whether or not they wanted  the PPI.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at the time, I think  that it was suitable.
Mr and Mrs N were eligible for the policy and they werent affected  by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr and Mrs N have told me they had secure jobs which came with benefits  up to six 
months sick pay followed by six months  half pay - so they say it is highly unlikely  that they 
Ref: DRN15481522would be out of work or made redundant and they had no need for the PPI. But this policy 
would have paid out on top of any sick pay they got and potentially  for longer than their work  
benefits lasted   up to 36 months  for accident or sickness and for up to 12 months if they 
lost their job. I understand they had good jobs but no jobs are guaranteed and their 
mortgage was secured  over their home and the consequences of being  unable to repay their 
monthly repayments were  serious. This PPI was taken out to protect their home if things 
went wrong so I think the PPI could have been useful.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs N about that. Because Santander  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs N, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs N any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs N any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs N the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs N 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs N can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs N any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 June 2019. 
Ref: DRN15481523Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1548152