K820x#14complaint
The estate  of the late Mr H is unhappy  with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds 
(LV) handling of a fire claim, made  under the late Mr Hs buildings insurance policy.
Mr Hs son is the sole executor of the estate. 
When I refer to LV Im also referring to any of their appointed representatives.
background
There was a fire at the late Mr Hs house in mid-July 2017.  LV appointed an expert to visit 
the house and provide a report on the extent of the damage.  Putting Mr H into alternative 
accommodation was discussed with Mr H and his son at this stage because the damage 
caused to the roof and electrics meant  the property was uninhabitable. Mr Hs son explained  
that he would try and sort out alternative arrangements  at a local care home.
A couple of weeks later Mr Hs son called  LV to explain  that Mr H had decided to stay in the 
house. But there was no electricity  or hot water. LV arranged for the temporary electricity 
supply to be switched  off and the usual electricity supply was reinstated.
Once the report and costs  were provided from the expert, LV decided to obtain another  
estimate for the works. This was seven  weeks  after the claim had been reported. The 
second report and schedule of works was agreed by Mr H and his son. But they did want  to 
know when the work  would  be completed by. It took some time for LV to answer  that 
question due to the complexity of work required.
The works were completed  in November 2017. Mr Hs son has further concerns with the 
standard of this work but that is subject  to another complaint against LV and isnt being 
considered here. 
Mr Hs son complained to LV. He said that the level of communication  given throughout the 
claim was unacceptable. He was unhappy  with how the project had been organised and felt 
there had been  avoidable  delays throughout the history  of the claim. He said his father had 
been extremely vulnerable and the delays in agreeing and completing the required work had 
caused him further distress. 
LV responded to Mr Hs son. They acknowledged there had been some avoidable delays 
during the process and offered Mr H £400  compensation.  They also offered an additional 
£1,500 for disturbance allowance as Mr H had remained in the house while repairs  were  
being completed. This was on top of the £2,000  disturbance allowance  that had been agreed 
while the claim and repairs  were ongoing.
Mr Hs son didnt accept this and brought the complaint  to our service on behalf of his father. 
Unfortunately Mr H passed away before the complaint could be considered by our service, 
so Mr Hs son has continued with it as the sole executor to the estate.
Our investigator said she felt LVs offer was a fair one in the circumstances.  She accepted 
that some  of the delays had been avoidable, but also some  hadnt and its expected  that 
claims of this nature can take some time to complete.
Mr Hs son didnt agree  so its been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN10284412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  that LVs offer is 
fair. Ill explain  why  but before I do Id like to express my condolences to Mr Hs son. Its 
clearly been a distressing time with the loss of his father.
Mr Hs son has provided a lot of information  for our service to consider.  Id like to assure him 
that Ive read it all, but I wont be commenting on everything that hes mentioned. Ill be 
concentrating on what I think is important to the outcome of this complaint.
A claim  of this nature  can take some time to resolve and there  is usually some  disruption 
and inconvenience  caused to customers as a result. LV have accepted that some  of the 
delays caused  between July 2017 and January 2018 were  avoidable so I dont have to make 
a decision on that. What I have to decide  is whether the offer of compensation is fair for the 
avoidable delays  and service given. In this case Im satisfied that it is.
LV initially  appointed their expert  to assess the damage to Mr Hs house and provide a 
schedule of works and an estimate to repair. Looking at the information  its clear that LV 
under-estimated the complexity of the repair work involved in the early  stages. And it was 
only when the quotation was provided  that another  contractor  was asked to attend and 
provide a second quotation to repair. Although the second contractor attended and provided 
their quotation promptly  I would have expected LV to have asked for two quotations from the 
outset. So this caused a delay of nearly  three weeks when the work could have been 
started.
There was also a slight delay between mid-September and early October 2017 when Mr Hs 
son and his father were  waiting for a timetable  and schedule  of dates for the completion of 
the work.  I understand that a timetable and schedule was a bit more  challenging in this claim 
because of the work needed on the roof and the removal  of one of the roof trusses.  But Mr H 
and his son werent kept up to date or responded to during this time. Im not satisfied that LV 
acted reasonably here. Mr Hs vulnerability was well known  to LV and it could have done 
more to try and alleviate some of the stress on him during that time.
During the progression of the claim there have been some avoidable delays. LV accepts 
this. But Mr Hs son is also unhappy  that several of his emails went  unanswered by LV. Ive 
looked at the communication between  both parties and can see there  have been  a number 
of email exchanges between Mr Hs son and LV. Its possible  that there are some  emails that 
havent been responded to but LVs offer of £400 compensation was for the overall service 
provided. Im satisfied that this included any failures  in communication  as well as the delays 
seen. Im also satisfied that its a reasonable amount  to offer given the delays totalled 
approximately four weeks. I wont be asking LV to do anything more  here.  
Although Mr Hs son has confirmed that the main cruxes of his complaint are the delays and 
the communication, hes also unhappy that LV didnt  help to source any alternative 
accommodation for his father to move  to. Hes also upset  that it took a further five days  to 
restore the electricity and hot water once LV were aware there wasnt  any. He told our 
investigator that his father took several  weeks to decide to stay in the house,  having 
originally been  staying with a neighbour. Mr Hs son thinks LV should have done more  to 
assist with alternative accommodation. 
Ref: DRN10284413When LVs expert visited Mr Hs house the day after the claim had been  reported it was 
suggested that Mr H should be moved  into alternative accommodation because  of the nature 
of the damage  and the repair work needed.  At this time Mr Hs son told the expert  that he 
would be looking to move  Mr H into a temporary  care home  so alternative accommodation 
wasnt needed. It was two weeks later when Mr Hs son called LV to say that the house had 
no electricity or hot water  at this time he explained  that Mr H had decided to remain in the 
house. So I dont  agree with Mr Hs sons comments that it took his father  several weeks  to 
decide to remain  in the house. And I dont think LV can be held responsible for not helping to 
source any alternative accommodation when they originally offered to do this and it was 
declined. 
I think LV has been reasonable in agreeing  to pay more for disturbance allowance while the 
repair works were taking place. They originally paid Mr H £100 a week  for 20 weeks, totalling 
£2,000. They then paid an additional  £1,500 in recognition of Mr Hs vulnerability while 
remaining in the house during the claim. Thats a fair offer and I wont be asking LV to 
consider anything else. I dont think five days is an excessive delay to arrange for the 
electricity and hot water to be reinstated, considering there was a temporary  electricity  
supply at the house. So I wont  be asking  LV to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of the 
late Mr H to accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1028441