K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a vehicle he has been  financing through  an agreement with Moneybarn 
No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) has been of unsatisfactory quality. 
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2020.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mr Ms complaint. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr M took receipt of a used car in September 2018. He financed  the deal through  a 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. At the point of supply the car had already 
completed a little over 62,000 miles. Mr M has had problems with the car, as follows:
September 2018  Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) cooler and valve replaced;
November 2018  EGR  valve replaced  and anti-freeze topped  up; 
November 2018 further  visit to garage. Car juddering and software updated;
late November 2018 RAC  identify  vibration  at speed;
11 January 2019 independent  inspection  arranged. Engineer  finds  no fault;
14 January   RAC  identifies juddering suggests referral to dealership;  
14 January mileage is 65,528.
The dealership have subsequently noted  spluttering  when  engine is warm and have 
suggested further work is required to identify the problem.  That work will cost £450 and 
Moneybarn have offered to fund half of it.
Mr M was unable  to resolve  the issue with Moneybarn and referred his complaint to this 
service. Our adjudicator agreed  that the problem  hadnt been resolved. She noted that the 
independent inspector hadnt been  able to replicate the fault but she thought that may be 
because he hadnt  driven the car at the necessary speed. She noted that there had been 
two separate confirmations that faults  existed with the car that required  further  investigation. 
She thought  it was therefore reasonable to suggest  Moneybarn allowed Mr M to reject the 
car and terminate his contract with them. In those  circumstances, she thought  it would be fair 
for Moneybarn to refund the deposit; reimburse  some consequential costs  for car hire, 
repairs and travel and pay Mr M £200 to compensate him for the trouble and upset hed 
experienced. She also suggested that Moneybarn should refund any finance instalments 
made by Mr M from the point she issued her view on 29 March 2019  to the point of 
settlement.
Moneybarn didnt agree  with the adjudicators view. They said the independent inspector had 
said the vehicle  was in average condition for its age and mileage and the main dealer health  
check hadnt identified  the issues Mr M now complained of. So they asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view but Im not expecting  to agree with the actions she 
suggested Moneybarn  take to put things right.
Ref: DRN19000602Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a conditional  sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. A car that hasnt 
proven sufficiently durable can also be considered  not to have been  of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr M. The car here 
was around seven years old and had travelled about  62,000 miles.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right. 
I understand that the independent inspector wasnt able to identify any problem with the car 
but two subsequent inspections have demonstrated  that a problem exists  and that when the 
engine has warmed up it splutters.  I think its likely  that the independent  inspector  may have 
missed this as its unclear  whether he mimicked the conditions that the dealership  identified  
were necessary before any juddering or spluttering became apparent. The condition  has 
been noted by two separate  organisations and Im persuaded that its likely the fault is 
therefore present.
As the fault appears to have presented very early  on, within the first couple of months,  I think 
its reasonable to suggest it was present or developing when Mr M took receipt of the 
vehicle. The relevant legislation allows Moneybarn one opportunity  to repair  a problem of 
this kind and I think its fair to say Moneybarn had that opportunity in November 2018 but 
that the repair was unsuccessful. In those  circumstances legislation  would  suggest  they 
allow Mr M to reject  the car and terminate his finance agreement. So I would agree with the 
adjudicators view on that.
Mr M has explained that there have been  some  costs associated with having a fault on his 
car. Hes explained  that hes had to hire a car in the meantime;  that hes had to pay for 
public transport and that hes had to commission a health check on the car and has paid for 
a software update. Our adjudicator suggested  all of these costs were refunded.
I think the health check costs and software updates were charges Mr M should  not have had 
to incur and I therefore think  it would  be fair to ask Moneybarn to refund  them  and to add 
interest to compensate  him for being  deprived  of that money.
Ref: DRN19000603I dont think it would  be fair to ask Moneybarn to refund the costs  of car rental and public 
transport and return the finance  instalments. That would mean that Mr M would not in effect  
be paying anything  at all for his transportation. Im therefore not expecting to ask Moneybarn 
to refund the rental costs  or the public transport expenditure. Instead, Im asking them  to 
refund all the instalments Mr M has paid towards  the car from and including his January 
2019 payment.  I think its fair to ask Moneybarn to pay interest on these refunds too as its 
clear Mr M has been deprived of this money.
Im suggesting Moneybarn refund the instalments rather than the car rental and public 
transport costs, as I think the monthly  instalments better represent  the quality of the vehicle 
Mr M was leasing. Refunding rental charges would leave the question, of whether Mr M had 
been using a car of similar value, still to be decided.
Im suggesting Moneybarn refund the instalments from January 2019 and not from March 
2019, as the adjudicator suggested.  I think its fair to compensate  Mr M for the loss of use he 
had from the car in the months  prior to it being  effectively taken off the road. 
Mr M has clearly  been inconvenienced  by all of these issues and in those circumstances I 
think Moneybarn should compensate him for the trouble and upset hes experienced. Id 
agree with the adjudicator  that £200 would  seem reasonable here.
Moneybarn will also need to refund the deposit  so that Mr M is in a position he would have 
been in if this issue didnt happen. And theyll need  to pay some interest to compensate 
Mr M for being deprived  of money when making his unsuitable investment.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited  
to:
cancel the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
refund  Mr Ms deposit and add 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
reimburse £58.99  for the health  check and add 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
reimburse £120 for the software  update and add 8% simple  interest  from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr M £200 to compensate him for the trouble  and upset hes experienced;
refund  all instalments  Mr M has paid towards his finance agreement  from, and 
including, January 2019. Add 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement. This is to compensate Mr M for lack of use of the car;
remove any adverse records they may have made to Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
this issue.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M didnt  dispute my provisional  findings and Moneybarn accepted them.  So Ive not found 
cause to change  my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN19000604my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited  
to:
cancel the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
refund  Mr Ms deposit and add 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
reimburse £58.99  for the health  check and add 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
reimburse £120 for the software  update and add 8% simple  interest  from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr M £200 to compensate him for the trouble  and upset hes experienced;
refund  all instalments  Mr M has paid towards his finance agreement  from, and 
including, January 2019. Add 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement. This is to compensate Mr M for lack of use of the car;
remove any adverse records they may have made to Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1900060