K821x#15Complaint
Miss B complains  Elevate Credit International  Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to her irresponsibly.
Background
Miss B took one running credit facility (RCF) and then 4 instalment loans. Ive included  some 
of the information weve  received from Sunny about  these loans below:
loan number loan amount received date actual repayment date
1 £750.00 25/06/2014 17/03/2015
2 £350.00 07/01/2015 19/03/2015
3 £450.00 17/03/2015 15/06/2015
4 £400.00 31/03/2015 15/06/2015
5 £400.00 25/04/2015 31/05/2016
The RCF (loan 1) is different to the instalment loans that Miss B took afterwards. The RCF 
allowed Miss B to either  request funds up to her agreed  credit  limit in one go or take multiple 
drawdowns up to that limit. It appears Miss B had a credit limit of £750. Each drawdown 
could be repaid via five monthly instalments. 
Miss B had some problems repaying  her final loan but it seems that this loan was repaid via 
the way of a repayment plan. 
In our assessment our adjudicator thought  it was wrong that the RCF and all the instalment  
loans were given.  The adjudicator said this because had Miss B stuck  to the repayments 
outlined in the credit agreements  for the RCF, these wouldve taken up a significant portion 
of her income and so he didnt think the repayments  were sustainable. 
Miss B has accepted  the adjudicators assessment. However, Sunny didnt agree with the 
adjudicators assessment.  But it reiterated  that its offer to refund the interest charged on the 
final loan (along with 8% simple interest) was still available. Some  time later,  a new offer was 
made by Sunny, this time it agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges applied to 
loans 2  5. 
Miss B didnt accept  the offer, and as no agreement  has been reached, the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Miss B has accepted  the adjudicators findings. Sunny hasnt accepted  what  the adjudicator  said 
about the RCF but it has accepted that something  went wrong when loans 2 - 5 were  granted.  
So this decision will instead focus on whether Sunny did anything wrong when it granted  the RCF. 
Ref: DRN18323142For the lending  that remains in dispute Sunny had to assess Miss Bs situation to check  if 
she could afford to pay back the amounts  shed  borrowed without undue  difficulty.  It needed 
to do this in a way which  was proportionate  to the circumstances. Sunnys checks  could 
have taken into account a number of different things, such  as how much was being lent, the 
size of the repayments and Miss Bs income  and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might  have been proportionate.
But certain factors might  suggest  Sunny should  have  done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Miss B. These factors include:
Miss B having  a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being  especially high (reflecting that it could be more  difficult 
to meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);  
Miss B having  a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss B coming back for loans  shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming  unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss B.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Sunny was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably  repay  the RCF  not just 
whether she technically  had enough  money to make  her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments  could of course  be an indicator that Miss B was able to repay her 
RCF sustainably. But it doesnt automatically  follow that this is the case.  The FCAs 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  states payments are sustainable if they are made 
without undue difficulties  and in particular, made on time, while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  to make them. If a lender realises, or ought 
reasonably to have  realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude  those  repayments  are unsustainable.
To start with, Miss B was given a facility  with a £750  credit limit. There  was an expectation 
that shed repay what she borrowed plus the interest  due within a period of five months. And 
the credit  agreement provides a schedule for what would happen if Miss B drew down the 
full amount available to her day one. 
Had Miss B drawn down  the full £750  at the start,  she was due to repay in five monthly instalments 
of £313.20. And it is this monthly repayment amount that Sunny needed to consider when carrying  
out its checks to determine whether Miss B would be in a position to repay  the RCF. 
When the RCF was granted, Sunny took details of Miss Bs monthly income   and she 
declared this to be £950. It also isnt clear from the information that Ive been provided  
whether Sunny asked Miss B about  her expenditure or whether it carried out a credit  check. 
Ref: DRN18323143But as Ive said, Sunny was required  to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay her 
RCF  not just whether the payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
In Miss Bs case, I think the information  Sunny gathered suggested the RCF was unsustainable 
for her from the outset. Miss Bs potential monthly contractual repayment represented a 
significant proportion  of her declared  monthly  income. In these circumstances, there was a 
significant risk that Miss B wouldnt have been able to repay the RCF without  undue  difficulty or 
without borrowing further. So Im upholding Miss Bs complaint about his facility from the start.
So, Im upholding  Miss Bs complaint about  her borrowing under the RCF and Sunny has 
already told us it thinks loans 2  5 should be upheld. So, Ive set out what Sunny should  do 
to put things right as detailed below.
Putting things  right
In addition to what Sunny has already  agreed, it should do the following;
refund all interest  and charges Miss B on loans  1 - 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative  information on Miss Bs credit file about  loans  1  5
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint.  
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Miss B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2020. 
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1832314