K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has declined  their application for a 
further advance  on their mortgage. They  want HSBC to grant their application or to waive the 
early repayment charge  (ERC) if they move to another  lender.
background
Mr and Mrs S have  a mortgage with HSBC taken out in August 2015. They  currently  owe 
£382,564. The mortgage was taken  out over a term of 8 years  and is due to be repaid in full 
in 2023. It is on an interest-only basis, on a five-year fixed rate product which  expires on 
30 July 2020.  If the mortgage is repaid early, Mr and Mrs S will have to pay an ERC of about  
£4,500.
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs S applied  to HSBC to borrow a further  £150,999  on a capital 
repayment basis, over a term of 20 years  (at which point Mr S would be 79 years old and 
Mrs S 78).  The stated  purpose of the loan was to provide a deposit to help their adult son 
move house,  and for home improvements.
The application failed  the initial computerised assessment in branch, and so it was referred 
to underwriters for manual consideration. The underwriters found no exceptional  
circumstances that would allow a manual override of the decline.
Mr S complained to HSBC. He said his income was sufficient to service the borrowing. He 
said his bonus  for the last two years  was £15,000,  which he paid into his pension  as he 
didnt need the money,  which was, he argued, more proof of affordability. Mr S said that he 
and Mrs S could easily get the money  from other lenders, who look at each case based on 
its merits, rather than some  generalised methodology which  HSBC  uses.  However, HSBC is 
stopping us from doing so and telling  us that if we were to move  to another provider and pay 
back the existing  £362K,  then there would be huge penalty payable  due to early redemption.  
This is totally  unfair.
HSBC didnt uphold  the complaint. It explained  that it had considered the application fairly in 
line with its lending criteria, which had changed due to the Mortgage Market  Review  and 
regulatory requirements for stricter lending criteria  which had come into effect  since  the 
original mortgage  was taken out. HSBC declined to waive the ERC.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us. They maintain  HSBC is treating them  unfairly by declining 
the application. They also say that they arent allowed to borrow  the money from another 
provider as a second charge and so are being forced into the situation where they will have 
to pay the ERC. They say that their property  is worth more than £1.5 million, and their 
totalling borrowing, including the £150,000, would only be £512,000. 
Mr and Mrs S are adamant they can afford the mortgage, and that HSBC has unfairly  
declined their application, on a computer says no basis without taking into account their 
actual circumstances.
An investigator looked at the complaint, and challenged HSBC about  its assessment of 
affordability, having looked at what Mr S had said about his income  and expenditure. After  
considering HSBCs response, the investigator was unable to uphold  the complaint.  He was 
satisfied that HSBC had given fair consideration to the application and was entitled to 
decline to lend.
Ref: DRN17433172Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree with the investigators  findings. They  said that theyd been able to 
fund the purchase  of their sons house  from other means, and that they are likely  to move 
their mortgage to another lender at the end of the fixed rate in July 2020.  But they dont think  
HSBC had a firm grasp of Mr and Mrs Ss actual financial circumstances.  They also argue 
that Mr Ss annual bonus (which had been  £15,000  for the previous two years) would be 
sufficient to cover any potential interest rate rise.
Mr and Mrs S asked  for an ombudsmans decision.  They say that, whilst they acknowledge 
HSBC is entitled  to apply its lending criteria to their application, in their case  the difference is 
that HSBC is using its monopoly position  to stop them from moving to another lender unless 
they pay a hefty  penalty  on their existing mortgage.  They say HSBC  should either waive  the 
ERC or seriously and honestly  review their case by a human being  rather  than a computer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I am able to decide is whether, on the basis of the information it had at the time of the 
application, HSBCs decision to decline the application for the further advance was a 
reasonable exercise of its commercial judgment. Im not required to assess the application 
myself or to substitute my own decision about  whether or not the application should have 
been granted. Nor do I have any power  to I order HSBC to lend to Mr and Mrs S.
The starting point  is that HSBC isnt under any obligation to lend money; nor is there any 
right that Mr and Mrs S are entitled to borrow additional funds. But if a request  is made for a 
loan, HSBC should give the application  fair consideration, within  the terms of its own criteria. 
HSBC is also entitled to decide the level of risk to which it is prepared  to be exposed.
HSBC is not required  to tell borrowers  in advance of them  making an application  what its 
internal lending criteria  are; this is commercially sensitive information. Lenders keep this 
information confidential in order to prevent borrowers from manipulating their finances  in 
order to fit criteria. So there is nothing sinister  in HSBC declining  to disclose its lending 
criteria to Mr and Mrs S.
Like all lenders, HSBC  is entitled  within the bounds of fairness and mortgage  regulation   
to decide who it lends to and what its lending  criteria  are. Ive looked  at the information it 
considered and the decision  it made and Im satisfied  that it applied  its criteria correctly  
and that Mr and Mrs S didnt meet the criteria. 
Following the Mortgage  Market Review  and regulations which came into effect  after Mr and 
Mrs S took out their original mortgage  in 2015,  lenders  are now required to look much  more 
closely at the assessment  of affordability. 
I know Mr S is adamant that he and Ms S are a good risk,  they can afford  the repayments 
on the further advance and that the loan-to-value  ratio is very low. They consider they have 
sufficient income to service the borrowing and any future interest rate increases.  But those 
are not the only criteria taken into consideration when deciding whether or not to lend.  It is a 
far more complex process than simply looking at money coming in, money going out and 
what security  is offered for the loan.  
Ref: DRN17433173Whether to lend money to a customer is a commercial decision. It appears HSBC applied  its 
lending criteria and decided to decline  the application. In other words, HSBC  has followed its 
processes and procedures. In the circumstances, Im satisfied HSBC hasnt treated Mr and 
Mrs S differently from any other customer in the same situation.
Mr and Mrs S think its unfair that they are unable  to move to another mortgage  lender  
without paying  the ERC.  The ERC  is not a penalty, as Mr and Mrs S believe. It is a 
contractual term they agreed to when  they took out their mortgage in 2015. 
I disagree with Mr and Mrs Ss contention  that HSBC is preventing  them from repaying the 
mortgage; Mr and Mrs S are free to repay the mortgage  at any time,  but they agreed in 2015 
that if they did so before  30 July 2020,  they would  pay the ERC.  I dont think  thats unfair,  
and I can see no basis upon which it would be reasonable to expect HSBC  to waive the ERC  
if Mr and Mrs S decide to repay the mortgage  during the period  within  which the ERC  
applies.
my final decision
I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed,  but my decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1743317