K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains about issues  shes experienced with the direct debit payments for a credit 
card account  with Sainsburys Bank Plc.
background
In September  2018 Miss M switched her current account using the switch  service. Her direct  
debit to Sainsburys was taken from her new account on 17 September 2018  so she thought 
everything had switched over successfully.
In November 2018 Miss M received a letter from Sainsburys telling her she was in arrears. 
She contacted Sainsburys who told her that it wasnt part of the switching scheme  and 
couldnt accept  direct debit instructions from a third party. Sainsburys set up a new direct 
debit for Miss M but didnt  check with her whether she wanted to pay the full statement 
balance at the end of each month  or the minimum  monthly payment. The direct debit was set 
up for the full statement  balance  and as a result  £2012.32 was requested  on 19 December 
2018. The direct  debit was returned  by Miss Ms bank.
Miss M wasnt  aware  that her direct  debit had been  set up in this way until the direct debit 
was returned.  In the interim she received a letter advising  her that she was in arrears. She 
made a payment to her account on 24 November 2018 but Sainsburys made a processing  
error and the payment was sent to someone  elses account.
Miss M continued to receive letters and calls about  the arrears on her account. Eventually  
Sainsuburys discovered  the processing  error.  It told Miss M it would return  the payment to 
her debit card but this didnt happen  until 21 December 2018.
Miss M tried to use her card around  Christmas  time but wasnt able to. She contacted 
Sainsburys and it told her it had placed a block on the card because the account was in arrears.
Miss M complained. She said shed never been  told that the direct  debit had been  cancelled 
and needed to be set up again.  She was unhappy  that the bank had taken so long to refund 
the payment which had been sent to the wrong account and she was unhappy that she 
hadnt been told about the block on the card.
In its final response Sainsburys  acknowledged  that it had made errors and offered to pay 
compensation of £330. Miss M was unhappy  with the response  and complained  to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought Sainsburys couldve contacted Miss M to 
make her aware that the direct debit had been cancelled  when she switched current 
accounts. He also thought  Sainsburys shouldve refunded the payment it had processed 
incorrectly much sooner. He thought Sainsburys shouldve  checked with Miss M whether she 
wanted to set up her direct debit for the full statement  balance  or the minimum monthly  
repayment. He also said Sainsburys shouldve made Miss M aware  that the card had been 
blocked. The investigator felt that Sainsburys  had caused stress and inconvenience for 
Miss M and recommended further compensation of £170.
Ref: DRN10312952Miss M didnt agree. She said shed  received  several; telephone  calls telling her she was in 
arrears and asking  her to make a payment after shed made a payment. She also said she 
was being charged interest even though she was meant to have an interest free period.
Sainsburys didnt  agree either. It accepted it had made errors but said the compensation of 
£330 it had already paid to Miss M was fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has experienced  a number of issues  with her account. Ive summarised  these below:
Cancelled direct  debit
New direct  debit  set up for full statement  balance
Payment sent to someone  elses account
Blocked card
Conflicting calls and letters
Incorrectly charged interest
Cancelled direct debit
Sainsburys has explained that it isnt part of the switching process. So once Sainsburys  
realised that the September direct  debit had come  from a third party  it cancelled  the direct 
debit. Whilst I cant  say that Sainsburys made  an error in cancelling the direct debit, I think  it 
should have contacted Miss M to let her know. This would have enabled Miss M to make a 
payment to bring  her account  up to date and set up a new direct debit much  sooner.
New direct debit
When Miss M contacted  Sainsburys and set up a new direct debit, Sainsburys didnt ask her 
what monthly payments  she wanted to make. It set up the direct debit for the full statement 
balance. It didnt tell Miss M it had done  this and she only found out when Sainsburys tried to 
take a large payment in December, which was returned by Miss Ms bank. Sainsburys made 
an error in failing to check what monthly payments Miss M wanted to make. It should have 
contacted Miss M to confirm her instructions before it set up a payment. I also think  
Sainsburys should have contacted Miss M when the December direct  debit  was returned.
Payment to someone elses account
Miss M tried to pay the arrears on her account. But Sainsburys processed the payment 
incorrectly and it was sent to someone elses account. I think Sainsburys  should have been 
more careful in processing  the payment. And once it realised the error it should have 
refunded the payment back to Miss M much  sooner  than it did.
Blocked card
Sainsburys blocked Miss Ms card because of the arrears. Miss M wasnt  told about this and 
tried to use the card, which caused  her embarrassment when it was declined.  I think 
Sainsburys should have told Miss M it had blocked  the card.
Ref: DRN10312953Conflicting calls and letters
Miss M has received conflicting letters regarding her account. In November 2018  she 
received a letter telling her the account was in arrears and another letter  I the same week  
telling her that Sainsburys delays in amending the direct debit meats that her account had 
fallen into arrears but that any fees would be refunded.  Following the payment made to her 
account (which Sainsburys sent to the wrong  account)  Miss M received several calls chasing 
her for payment, which she found distressing. I think Sainsburys  should have done more  to 
identify the errors it had made and provide clear  information to Miss M about her account. 
Interest
Sainsburys has acknowledged that it charged interest on Miss Ms account incorrectly from 
March 2019 onwards, when she should  have benefitted from an interest  fee period. This 
error has been rectified by Sainsburys  refunding the interest charged.  Miss M said she 
transferred the balance  on the account  to another card as a result of the interest being 
charged. I understand why Miss M did this and Ive taken it into account in deciding what a 
fair and reasonable resolution  to this complaint is.
Taking everything into account,  Im of the view that Sainsburys made  errors  and couldve 
handled things  better.  Miss M has suffered  distress  as a result  shes been subjected  to 
calls chasing her for a payment which shed already made and her card was blocked without 
telling her, causing her distress and embarrassment  when she tried to pay for her Christmas 
food shopping.  The fact that theres been  more  than one error  over a period of approximately 
3 months means  that the impact on Miss M has been greater than if there had been just one 
error. I think  the compensation should  be increased  to a total of £500  because  of this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Sainsburys Bank  Plc should  pay further 
compensation of £170 to Miss M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1031295