K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about arrangements for the clearing and withdrawal of funds in his 
trading account,  which is run by Equiniti Financial Services Limited (Equiniti).  
background
In the main,  Mr H says:
He has held his account for many years. He uses the account for frequent  stock 
trading and for monthly withdrawals  of money to live on.
He understands  that the withdrawal  arrangement  depends on funds  in the account 
having been cleared, after at least two days (upon any relevant trade  settlement(s)), 
and that only cleared  funds can be withdrawn. However, this arrangement has an 
unfair and detrimental effect on a frequent trader like him because it prioritises  the 
use of cleared funds  for trades (which have been placed), above  the use of such 
funds for withdrawals. The effect is that his need  for a withdrawal at any time can and 
will be hindered or blocked  by any unsettled  purchase trade(s) at the time, because 
cleared funds will be reserved for the latter and will be inaccessible  for the former.
Between 18 and 20 February last year he made a series  of sale and purchase  trades  
in his account which made the balance, un-cleared funds and cleared funds in his 
account fluctuate, as the trades  were  made.  He needed to make a withdrawal  in the 
same period. However, cleared funds had been used in the series  of buying and 
selling he performed. On 20 February he was unable to make the withdrawal he 
needed because  he did not have available cleared funds  such  funds had been 
used in the trading activity instead.  
He complained about this event and Equiniti addressed the matter by transferring 
money to him at no charge.  However, it has refused  to amend its system to ensure  
the same  thing does  not recur in the future. Its system allows stock purchases on the 
basis of un-cleared funds, so it is arguably reasonable to ask that withdrawal 
requests are given  a priority with regards to cleared  funds.  In practice  the system can 
 and should  use the last incoming funds into the account for trades in order to 
allow the earlier (cleared) incoming funds to build up for potential  withdrawals.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and did not consider that it should be 
upheld. She concluded that the accounts  system  had worked  as it was designed to and as 
agreed in the terms for the account.  She also noted that it is beyond the remit of this service 
to prescribe how a firm should operate its service. Mr H disagreed with this outcome and 
queried the investigators suggestion that the terms for the account  supported  the way the 
system worked. He also considered that the workings of the system amount to Equiniti 
misappropriating his money, because he should not be denied  access  to his cleared funds, 
and that the simple tweak, to the system and required to resolve  his problem, could easily  be 
done by Equiniti.
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view. She shared the contents of a 
particular term, for the account, which made  provisions for settlements in the account.  Mr H 
said the term was irrelevant to his point  about  the sequence of using cleared and un-cleared  
funds and that he is aware  of another firm in the sector operating  the type of system he says 
Equiniti should  be operating. The investigator suggested that another  firms operations  are 
not binding on Equiniti.  She said this service  cannot influence Equiniti as Mr H requested 
and that its system applied as it was designed  to apply (and on the basis  of the settlement 
process in the term she referred to).
Ref: DRN17979742The matter  was referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint essentially seeks an outcome in which Equiniti is instructed or influenced to 
change its system for the use (or priority use) of cleared funds within  its trading accounts   
or specifically in Mr Hs trading account.  As he confirms, the matter  that arose between 18 
and 20 February last year was addressed  and resolved by Equiniti at the time. The money 
he sought to withdraw  was transferred  to him at no cost. In this context, there  does not 
appear to be a detriment  or loss upon which he seeks  redress.  Instead, his pursuit is for a 
change of (or in) the system.
The investigator correctly  explained that it is beyond the remit of this service to prescribe 
how a firm should run its business  or operate its services. Our remit mainly relates to 
addressing alleged wrongdoings by firms and any detriments or loss allegedly associated  to 
a complaint. In Mr Hs case, the latter does not appear to exist. In terms of the former,  I am 
not persuaded that a wrongdoing on Equinitis  part has been  established.
I do not accept the suggestion that the relevant system has the effect  of misappropriating    
Mr Hs money.  The system does not deprive  him of his money.  Cleared funds which are 
used, as a matter of priority, for purchase trades  are used for the purchase trades that he 
places. They are used  for a trading  purpose  that he created and to purchase stock  that he 
will own upon settlement.  This does  not amount to misappropriation.
Overall, I consider that Equiniti  is entitled  to use the internal operational policies or 
processes it wishes to use, as long as they are transparent to its customers; as long as they 
are not in breach of relevant laws and regulation and not in breach of the terms of its service; 
and, in the context  of this services fair and reasonable remit, as long as they are fair and 
reasonable. 
Equinitis system uses a customers money to fund purchases placed by the customer and 
withdrawals made by the customer. Within it, priority is given to the funding of purchases  
that is, the purchases of stock with cleared funds.  I understand Mr Hs argument  about how 
reversing this priority,  especially  as the system also allows for purchases with un-cleared 
funds, will address the potential future problem he might face (or the potential recurrence of 
what happened in February last year).  However,  there is a difference  between changing a 
system that is wrong  or unfair, and changing a system to make it more  convenient for the 
complainant. Mr Hs case appears to fall into the second category.
I do not consider  it wrong, unfair, in breach of relevant law or regulations or in breach of the 
terms of Mr Hs account for Equiniti to have applied  the system he objects  to; or for it to 
continue to maintain  that system  despite his objection. There  are third party rights 
associated with stock  trading   that is, beyond  Mr H and Equiniti, the counterparties should 
not be ignored. In this context, it is not unreasonable that Equinitis system seeks to ensure 
that stock purchases  are supported  by cleared funds.  This aids,  for Mr Hs and the 
counterpartys benefit, settlement  of the trade. 
Ref: DRN17979743Mr H says such trades can also be supported  by un-cleared funds, but that does not 
automatically mean they should be restricted to un-cleared funds or to the last incoming 
funds in the account. If, as it appears, this is the type of service  he wants it is not the type of 
service Equiniti provides and it does not appear that Equiniti concealed the nature of its 
service (in terms of trading, settlements and withdrawals) from him. Furthermore,  and as the 
investigator suggested, the system  used by another firm is not binding on Equiniti.
At its core, the system  strikes  a balance between the purchase trades and withdrawal  
requests that can happen in Mr Hs account  around  the same  time. The balance  is not even  
and it gives priority to the trades, but the main  point is that both the trades and withdrawal 
requests are in Mr Hs control (not Equinitis) and for his benefit (not Equinitis) so he has the 
primary responsibility to manage them. If, under the system, a particular trade(s) has the 
potential to affect a withdrawal he wishes  to make that is a matter for him to manage. In the 
absence of evidence  that Equinitis system is unfair or in breach of terms and/or regulations,  
I am not persuaded that it is a matter (or wrongdoing) for which Equiniti is responsible. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 29 February  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1797974