K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Mrs B says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a policy Mrs B took out with a store  card in March 1996.  It was added 
to her account when she applied for the card in the store whilst shopping.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
Mrs B mainly  said that she would have  refused  PPI had it been offered to her and she did 
not tick the box for PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt reasonable  to expect Mrs B to remember  exactly what  was discussed when she took 
out PPI so long ago. I have to look at everything  and decide  what  I think is most likely. 
I think FICL  made Mrs B aware  that she could take out PPI with her store  card and she 
chose to add it on to her account. FICL has given us a copy  of Mrs Bs store card application. 
I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI  but I think it wouldve been clear from 
the paperwork that it was up to Mrs B to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. The PPI part 
of the form is marked to include the cover  (it looks to me like Mrs B has initialled this part of 
the form). I would expect  Mrs B to have checked  over the form carefully  before signing  up to 
this account  so I think she wouldve seen the PPI information set out on the form. Mrs B 
signed the completed application so it seems  to me that she must have agreed with the 
information on the form at the time  even if, understandably,  she has forgotten this now.  
So, on balance,  I think Mrs B was aware  the policy was optional  and it was added to her 
account when  she indicated that she wanted  to take it out.
FICL shouldve given Mrs B enough  clear  information to decide if the policy was right for her.
Its possible some information FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. So I need to consider if Mrs B wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Ref: DRN18173342The policy couldve  paid a benefit  for as long as Mrs B was off work sick. And it covered her 
if Mrs B lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. In the event of a successful claim,  
the policy couldve cleared her card balance if Mrs B wasnt able to go back  to work.  So even 
taking into account  her good  sick pay benefits through  work,  it looks  like the policy couldve 
been useful to her.
Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI. 
 
Ive taken into account everything Mrs B told us about her circumstances  at the time.  But, 
based on the information Ive seen, I think Mrs B couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed 
needed to claim. 
It doesnt look as if Mrs B was affected  by any of the things  the policy didnt cover.  So, I dont 
think having more  information about  the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put Mrs B 
off taking it out. 
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Mrs B clear enough information  about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But Mrs B chose to take out the policy when she didnt have  to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time. She indicated on the application form that she was happy to pay 
to have it, even  if shes  forgotten this now. Looked at overall,  given the benefits PPI offered 
Mrs B, I think it unlikely  she wouldve  made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think shed still have taken  out the policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1817334