K822xcomplaint
Mr T1s representative, his son Mr T2, complains  on his behalf about  the time taken by 
Cofunds Limited to credit  funds into his account  following encashment  of his investments 
and the general  service  provided. 
background 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, she said:
On 9 August  2018, Mr T1 signed a withdrawal form. 
The form made clear that payments  typically take up to 10 business days  to reach 
your nominated bank  account.  
The form was received by Cofunds  on Friday 10 August 218. The start date for the 
request was 14 August 2018  as it had a two working day turnaround.  
Mr T1s funds  were credited to his accounts on 24 August  8 working days since the 
start date, so technically there wasnt a delay. 
But whilst there wasnt a delay  in receiving the funds there was a delay in selling the 
investment  sold on 16 August 2018   which was worth £66 less than if it were sold 
on 14 August 2018. Cofunds have paid this amount. 
Its her understanding that Mr T1s had to make several calls and there  were  delays 
in dealing with the complaint. 
Cofunds have  agreed to pay £125  compensation for trouble and upset caused plus 
£6.60 interest  which is in line with what she wouldve suggested. 
Were unable to consider any trouble and upset caused to Mr T1s daughter  as were 
only able to consider  the trouble and upset caused  to the customer  rather than a third 
party. 
Although Mr T1 wasnt able to book a holiday,  the funds were  credited within  10 
working days which isnt an unreasonable timeframe. 
In the circumstances, the compensation offered  by the business is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.   
Mr T2 disagreed with the adjudicators conclusion. In short,  he says:
His points werent  fully considered. 
Despite administrative errors, the final transfer date may have been within 10 days  
that Cofunds provide. But surely its 10 days from the date the form is signed  which  
would make it 12 days or 14 calendar days. The time scale is misleading and not in 
line with bank transfers such as BACS transfers  which take three to four days.  
Whilst third parties cant be considered for compensation the adjudicator  shouldve  
thought about the impact of not being  able to pay for his daughters  building  work had 
on Mr T1  namely  the embarrassment  and disappointment  he would have suffered.
The compensation offered for the poor service doesnt reflect  the trouble and upset 
suffered and hed like to know  how it came  to the value of £100. 
Despite making request for information Cofunds  has breached General Data  
Protection Regulations (GDPR) by not providing the information. 
Overall, the redress offered by Cofunds  is unreasonable and inadequate.  
As no agreements been  reached the matters  been referred to me to consider. 
Ref: DRN10662022my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
I think the business quite fairly upholds the complaint. The central issue for me to consider is 
the redress offered.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the offer by Cofunds   to pay £197.70 
compensation (comprised of £72.70 for loss of investment with interest, and £125 for the 
trouble and upset  caused) is fair and reasonable. 
It broadly takes  into account the value  of the funds  - if theyd been sold on 14 August  and 
payment to mark the time and effort  and telephone  calls Mr T1 had to make in order to try 
and get the matter resolved.  So Im satisfied the redress broadly places Mr T1 in (more  or 
less) the position  he would be in but for the error  by Cofunds. 
 
Im not persuaded that theres sufficient nexus  between the payment of funds and Mr T1 not 
being able to pay for his daughters building work  or book his holiday.  
I appreciate Mr T1 wouldve been  disappointed and embarrassed that hed not been  able to 
do as hed intended, and help his daughter,  but Im unable to safely  say this was Cofunds  
fault. Ive seen no evidence to suggest  it was something Cofunds has agreed to or was 
made aware  at the outset. 
Even if Mr T1 was told a particular date by which he might receive the funds its unlikely he 
was guaranteed this would be the case. Its possible an earlier  date was indicated  (as 
suggested by Mr T2) but I think its likely to have been done so in good faith, not in an effort 
to mislead Mr T1.  
In any case Mr T1 still received the funds within the 10 day time frame.   Whilst this might not 
align with BACS transfers the process isnt a straightforward cash transfers and so is likely  to 
need greater time for Cofunds to do things properly.   
So overall I dont  think that Mr T1 is entitled  to any additional redress because hes not been  
able spend his money how and when he wanted  to or for any trouble and upset  caused  by 
this. 
It was always open to Mr T1 to encash the investments much earlier to give himself  sufficient 
time for any issues that might otherwise prevent him from making these  payments.  
I also agree  with the adjudicator that we wouldnt generally consider trouble and upset 
payments in respect third parties who arent  a party to the complaint.   And despite what Mr 
T2 says I dont think Mr T1 is entitled to any further  redress in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For reasons set out above, I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN10662023I think the compensation offered by Cofunds Limited  in the sum of £197.70 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1066202