K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that Newbury Building Society acted irresponsibly when making  an interest 
only mortgage available to her. Miss F says Newbury didnt make sure that the mortgage 
was affordable for her. 
Miss F says she fell into financial difficulty after taking out the new mortgage  and this caused 
her considerable distress  and suffering. 
background 
Miss F met with a broker in 2017.  She was keen  to move to another  property and wanted to 
explore ways to finance this. The broker gave Miss F specialist mortgage advice as she cant  
work due to her poor health.  It recommended  she take out an interest only HOLD mortgage  
(home ownership for people with long-term  disabilities). The broker  helped  Miss F to apply 
for a HOLD  mortgage  with Newbury  Building  Society.
The cost of the monthly mortgage interest  payments  was to be mostly covered by Support 
for Mortgage Interest  (SMI) benefits. A relatively small payment of around £80 was to be 
made by Miss F each month.   
In December 2017 Miss F took out an interest only HOLD mortgage of around  £100,000 
over 35 years. Miss Fs new property was purchased  on a shared ownership  basis,  with Miss 
F purchasing  a 66% share of the full purchase price,  at a cost of £198,000. Miss F put a 
deposit of around  £98,000  of her own money  into the transaction from the sale of a previous 
property.
As part of the mortgage advice process,  Miss F met with the brokers  sister company to 
assess her benefit entitlement. This firm calculated the amount  of benefits that Miss F would  
be eligible for in the new property. The broker used  the benefits assessed by its sister 
company in the mortgage application  to Newbury.  And Newbury relied  on this information  
about Miss Fs income  to evaluate whether Miss F could afford the mortgage.
 
Miss F says she queried with the broker whether the benefits shed been  told she could get 
were right. She thought  the figures  looked too high. But Miss F was reassured they were 
correct. On that basis Miss F went ahead and took out the mortgage.
Miss F says she found out in February  2018 that the benefit  calculation had been wrong, and 
shed receive around £270 less each month than shed been told. This was only weeks  after 
shed sold her previous  property and taken out the mortgage with Newbury.  It soon came  to 
light that the broker had relied on incorrect information about  Miss Fs future benefit 
entitlement. This appears to have occurred because it had been  overlooked  that Miss Fs 
son would  be living in the property with her in the medium term. Miss Fs benefits  increased 
by £270 when her son moved out in November 2019. 
 
Miss F says when she took out the mortgage with Newbury she struggled  to meet her 
mortgage payments  and this caused her considerable stress and physical suffering. She 
complains that Newbury didnt do enough  to make  sure that she could afford  this mortgage, 
and that if it had she would never have gone ahead  with the loan. Miss F holds it responsible  
for the position  she finds herself in. 
Ref: DRN18850652Miss F has also made  a complaint about the broker and that is the subject of a separate 
complaint with us. 
On 3 May 2019  Miss F complained to Newbury  about its decision to give her this mortgage.  
Newbury gave two final responses  dated 17 May 2019 and 24 May 2019. It didnt uphold her 
complaint. In summary Newbury said that Miss F had been advised  to take out the mortgage 
by a broker, and if she considered the mortgage  was unsuitable  then she should complain to 
the broker. Newbury said it had carried out affordability checks  and it had satisfied itself that 
the mortgage was affordable for Miss F based on the information  given  to it by Miss F and 
the broker. Even if it had taken a lower income figure, without the additional sum incorrectly  
quoted by the broker, it still considered  the mortgage was affordable.
Miss F disagreed and asked us to look into her complaint. Our investigator  didnt  think 
Newbury had acted unreasonably  in making  the loan available to Miss F. Miss F disagreed 
and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint again and reach a final decision  on the 
matter.
my second  provisional findings
Ive issued two provisional decisions before reaching my final decision on this complaint.  The 
first was dated 19 May 2021, and the second  was dated 10 August 2021.  In both provisional 
decisions I considered  this complaint against  Newbury should be upheld. However, my 
provisional findings differed in the two decisions,  both concerning what Newbury could have 
done differently  and were responsible for, and what  I thought  needed to be done now to put 
things right. 
In my second provisional decision  I said:  
Ive also thought  carefully about  who was ultimately responsible for the recommendation of 
this mortgage  based upon Miss Fs specific financing objectives- which  would have taken 
into account her income and expenditure. Having looked again at the further arguments 
made, I have  decided to change  some  of my earlier  provisional findings. 
First, Miss F has clearly explained how unhappy she is in her new property and that shes 
had problems with services like utilities, and maintenance needed in her home.  Miss Fs also 
encountered issues with the provision of health  care and support for her conditions.  Im sorry 
to hear that Miss F has had problems  with her property and I can see that these wouldnt 
have been foreseen by Miss F when she decided to buy this property as her forever  home.
Miss Fs also said that she sees the problems with the mortgage as being another  thing  that 
shes needed to sort out, and that she feels exhausted by her wider situation. While Im 
sympathetic to issues Miss Fs experienced as a result of owning a property, it would be 
unreasonable to hold Newbury responsible for the problems Miss F is now experiencing with 
her property. However, Id like to reassure  Miss F that I have taken these factors into 
account when  considering  her wider circumstances.  
Miss Fs said she hasnt complained about  the SMI loan or what  might happen to her at the 
end of her mortgage  term. Miss Fs said that the key issue  she complained  about  is the fact 
that she found out weeks after taking  out this HOLD  mortgage that shed not get the benefits 
shed been led to believe. This led to her having problems affording the Newbury mortgage 
from the start and this wasnt  something she could undo. 
Ref: DRN18850653Her situation only improved in November  2019  when her son moved out. Miss F found 
herself making additional payments to this mortgage  as she struggled to get access to 
benefits. I also appreciate  how upset this made  Miss F and why she questions  how this 
situation can have  come about, and why Newbury couldnt  have prevented this.
Affordability assessment  of Miss Fs mortgage
Ive thought about all that Newbury has said in relation  to how difficult it was for it to 
independently verify the affordability of this mortgage. As Miss F has said,  this was the main 
thrust of her complaint.  
I understand and appreciate the arguments  that Newbury has made. An application  was put 
forward by a specialist  broker  in HOLD mortgages,  whod  relied  upon  an assessment of 
benefits by an expert  in the field. In the circumstances, I think  Newbury acted reasonably  by 
taking the income  figures provided  in the brokers application without interrogating  these 
further.
I also think it was reasonable that Newbury worked  on the assumption,  for affordability  
purposes, that Miss F would take out an SMI loan to repay the majority  of the mortgage 
payment. That was clearly  how the mortgage loan was intended to operate  and the 
mortgage offer states that it is a condition of the loan. Miss F has also said she understood 
this.
Newbury did take steps to ensure this mortgage was affordable for Miss F before the offer 
was made.  It calculated whether this loan was affordable using an assessment based  on the 
figures provided by the broker and the specialist firm (a sister company of the broker).  And it 
also relied upon SMI being received which as Ive said I think  it was reasonable in the 
specific circumstances of this complaint. 
Newbury has shown  that, under its own affordability  calculation, the mortgage Miss F applied 
for would still have been approved and deemed affordable, even  at the lower level of income  
that Miss F received while her son lived with her. Newbury has shown that what  made  this 
transaction unaffordable  (and fail its own stress testing) was Miss F receiving lower benefits  
income and not applying  for SMI. Miss F receiving lower benefits is not something I think  
Newbury can reasonably  be held responsible  for. This was an error made by other parties in 
this dispute. And, as Ive said, I dont think Newbury  could  reasonably  have expected Miss F 
to struggle to claim SMI in the early  months, or to choose not to apply for an SMI loan.  
For the reasons  given,  Im minded to depart from my earlier  provisional  findings on this part 
of the complaint. I dont think Newbury  can reasonably  be held responsible  for Miss F 
struggling to afford her mortgage in the early years  of the loan. I think  these struggles were 
due to the actions of other parties  in this wider  dispute. 
end of the term issues 
In looking at Miss Fs complaint, wider issues have  been identified  beyond the immediate 
affordability issues experienced  by Miss F at the start of 2018.  When looking at Newburys  
decision to give Miss F this interest  only mortgage,  in accordance  with my remit Ive also 
thought about where  this transaction would have  left Miss F at the end of the term. 
I remain concerned about  the risks to Miss F at the end of the interest only mortgage term. 
Its clear that Newbury has assessed  its own risk position and satisfied itself that it would be 
Ref: DRN18850654repaid in full at the end of the mortgage term. However, it strikes me that there was less 
consideration about where Miss F may find herself at the end of term and that she may have 
a lack of options open  to her at that time. 
Newbury has said that mortgage regulation  enables them  to give interest only mortgages  to 
HOLD applicants and accept the sale of the property as a credible  repayment  strategy. 
Newbury has also said that Miss F may have  found herself in a position  to downsize at the 
end of the mortgage term if you consider  that house prices may increase over the mortgage  
term.
Newbury has now recognised that it could have responded differently when these issues  
were first highlighted by us. Its now offered to extend the term of Miss Fs mortgage for as 
long as she wishes to stay in the property to give her certainty and peace of mind.  I note its 
also agreed to do this for all other customers with HOLD mortgages.  This gives Miss F 
reassurance that she will have a home  into her old age and wont  face problems trying to get 
a term extension or finding herself needing  to sell her home  adapted for her needs at the 
end of the mortgage term.
I consider that Newburys offer resolves this issue- and Im pleased  to hear that it has 
reconsidered its position on this aspect of the complaint for Miss F and other  customers in a 
similar position.  
Regardless of this offer, there are aspects of this complaint that have caused Miss F trouble 
and upset as a result of its actions. Miss F has had to pursue  this matter, and Newbury was 
initially not receptive  to accept that it played  any part in Miss Fs dilemma. Im persuaded 
that Newburys actions  caused her anxiety and physical  suffering.
While I accept that other parties had greater responsibility for the trouble Miss F faced, 
Newbury did play a part in Miss Fs wider circumstances. In recognition of this I think its fair 
that Newbury pay Miss F £500 for the trouble and upset  caused to her by its actions.
responses to my second provisional  decision
Both parties  have replied  to my second  provisional decision and have made  further 
comments which I have carefully  considered. I havent repeated all the responses here but 
Id like to assure both parties that I have taken  into account all the further arguments made 
before reaching  my final decision. 
Miss F replied to say, in summary that if Newbury had actually met with her or had any 
discussions with her about the mortgage then theyd have known her full circumstances and 
not relied on the broker for her full circumstances. She also says that NBS had been aware 
there were problems with her benefit payments soon after the loan was taken out. Miss F 
also cant understand how Newbury calculated that the mortgage was affordable  for her 
when she was worse  off than shed been  in her previous property, and it led to her struggling  
with the basic  costs of living.
Newbury replied to say it thought I should only expect  Newbury  to pay a token  sum of 
compensation to Miss F for its part in this complaint. It considered the main failings had been 
those of the broker, and that the broker should  compensate Miss F.
my findings
Ref: DRN18850655Ive carefully considered  all the evidence and further  arguments made by both parties.
Having done so, Im satisfied that my second provisional findings  are a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. 
I can see why Miss F queries why Newbury, as her mortgage lender, isnt being held more 
squarely responsible for the position that she found  herself in. And it may be that if Newbury  
had asked more  questions of the broker around  the eligibility of the scheme, and Miss Fs 
understanding of the benefits shed be entitled  to receive and the way this mortgage worked, 
that this mortgage  may not have  gone  ahead. 
But, as Ive said, Im also conscious  that HOLD mortgages are a niche product, only offered 
by one lender  and only one broker recommends  this product. In the specific circumstances 
of this complaint,  Im satisfied that the broker has greater responsibility for the dilemma  Miss 
F faced having taken  out the mortgage  and it is fair that the majority of compensation is paid 
by that party.
However, Id like to be clear that I also find Newbury, as the lender, responsible in part. I can 
see that Newbury feels the compensation Ive proposed that it pay is too high. Ive thought 
about its arguments and I disagree.  While  I think  the broker has the greater share  of 
responsibility for the position Miss F found  herself in, Newbury did play a part in giving Miss 
F this mortgage, and I think it could  have done more  to support its customer  when problems 
occurred having  taken the mortgage out.
Miss F asserts  that Newbury  knew she was struggling when benefit payments werent being 
made to the mortgage and yet it didnt  do more to help. In fact, Miss F says there were 
discussions between Newbury and the broker when  benefit payments  werent  received as 
they should have been, but yet Newbury didnt discuss  what was happening  directly with its 
customer and explore if it could help. Newbury says it knew  nothing about  Miss Fs struggles 
until a complaint was made over a year after the mortgage was taken out. 
Then theres  the issue of the end of term, and Newburys initial  reluctance to offer greater 
peace of mind to Miss F at term end after we highlighted this issue to it. 
Even now Newbury disputes the amount of trouble and upset to be paid to resolve this 
matter, feeling  a token amount is more appropriate.
Im satisfied that when  taking into account Miss Fs vulnerability, and the trouble  she had 
once this mortgage had completed, that Newbury  could and should have done  more to 
support its customer.  I think  it is reasonable that Newbury pay Miss F £500 for its part in the 
trouble and upset  caused to her in taking out this mortgage, and the administration of the 
mortgage since it was taken out.
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Newbury Building Society  should  be upheld.  
To put things right I consider that Newbury  Building Society should pay Miss F £500 for the 
upset caused  by its actions in relation to this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2021.
Ref: DRN18850656Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1885065