K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that Experian Limited (Experian) did not remove  information from his credit  
file after he told it the information was incorrect and related to fraudulent activity.
Background
Mr G contacted Experian in June 2017 to explain hed become aware of a number of credit 
searches and linked addresses recorded  by various  businesses on his credit file that he did 
not recognise. He asked  Experian how he could get the information removed and how he 
could stop the organisations  that made  the searches from treating the applications as 
genuine. 
Experian contacted the various relevant companies  to check the accuracy of the information 
they had recorded with it. Following this it deleted most of the searches and linked address 
data. But some of the businesses  said the information it reported was correct  or that Mr G 
would have to get in touch  with them to query it. Experian told Mr G it was unable to delete 
these entries. It said he would have to contact the businesses himself to ask them  to remove  
the information. It added notices to Mr Gs file to show  that these entries were disputed. 
Mr G was not happy with this and complained to Experian. He said,  in summary, that it 
cannot be right that another  individual,  acting fraudulently, can authorise a lender to record  
information with the credit reference agencies about  him, yet he has no right to retract  that 
permission and have  the information  removed. 
An adjudicator looked at Mr Gs complaint. She said Experian hadnt acted unfairly because 
she thought it had made reasonable  attempts to verify the data it held was accurate by 
contacting the relevant businesses. She said she didnt think Experian should  have  deleted  
the information without the consent of these businesses.  
Another adjudicator  looked at Mr Gs complaint and offered more  of an explanation  about 
why he thought Experian had acted fairly.
Mr G didnt agree and asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for further 
review. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must decide what, if anything, Experian should  do to resolve Mr Gs complaint. To do that, 
I have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other things)  
any relevant law, rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)   the body responsible for upholding 
information rights and protecting the personal data of the public  sets out on its website 
that:
It is easy to see why people assume the CRAs  are responsible for all the information 
that appears on their credit file. However, in reality, the lenders and telecoms  and 
Ref: DRN12975462utility companies who passed the information  to the CRA in the first place also have 
responsibilities for the information that appears on your credit file.
we still expect the CRAs to take reasonable measures to ensure the information that 
is reported by lenders  via their credit files is accurate.
And, in the FAQ section:
Someone else has used  my details  to try to get credit fraudulently and there 
have been  lots of searches carried out in my name. Can I get these  removed 
from my credit file?
Searches on your credit  file should not have  a negative impact  on your credit history. 
Lots of searches in a short space of time however can imply  that you are having 
problems getting  credit which, in itself, can impact  an organisations decision about 
whether it will give you credit  or not.
If you believe you have been a victim of fraud  you should report it to the relevant 
fraud departments of the organisations involved.  As fraud is a crime, you should  
consider reporting  this issue  to the police if they are not already aware. You may 
wish to report the suspected fraud to  as well.
The ICO cannot investigate matters of fraud as this falls outside of our remit, and we 
do not have the power to make a decision on whether or not an account has been  
opened and/or operated fraudulently.
Furthermore, relevant  legislation at the time Experian recorded the information on Mr Gs 
credit file, The Data Protection Act 1998  (DPA) sets out at Schedule I Part II (paragraph  7) 
that:
The fourth principle (to keep accurate data) is not to be regarded  as being 
contravened by reason of any inaccuracy in personal data which  accurately record 
information obtained by the data controller from the data subject  or a third party in a 
case where
(a)having regard to the purpose or purposes  for which the data were obtained and 
further processed, the data controller  has taken reasonable steps to ensure the 
accuracy of the data,  and
(b)if the data subject has notified  the data controller of the data subjects view that 
the data are inaccurate, the data indicate  that fact.
I think the information on the ICOs website and the legislation are a good  starting  point to 
help me decide  what Experian ought  reasonably to have done  once  Mr G told it about the 
information he didnt  recognise on his credit  file. So, I have considered whether Experian 
made reasonable attempts to ensure the disputed  information was accurate and whether it 
recorded on Mr Gs credit file where information was disputed. 
The records  of the searches and linked addresses  were information which  Experian  had 
received from other businesses. I dont think it was for Experian to decide whether a search 
or application made in Mr Gs name,  using his details,  was made fraudulently  or not at the 
time it received it. Only Mr G and the business which made  the search or received the 
Ref: DRN12975463application would be able to determine if the information was accurate or not. Mr G was able 
to challenge information recorded  on his credit file if he believed it was incorrect.
Once Mr G did this, Experian checked with the relevant businesses whether the information 
was correct. It then confirmed to him that most of the disputed searches  and linked address 
information had been deleted. Its told us it would likely have made the decision to delete 
some of the soft searches  searches  by credit providers which  will not show up to other 
lenders on a credit check  that were  showing  on his file without  contacting the relevant 
lenders. It says it would  likely have done  this because these searches have no impact on 
future credit applications. I dont  find it unreasonable that Experian  was able to remove  
information that had no impact  on future  lending applications without permission from the 
relevant business,  but not information which would have been  visible  to other  lenders. 
Due to the passage of time, its not clear  from Mr Gs credit  file when the information was 
removed as its all gone now. And its not been possible to secure a copy of Mr Gs credit file 
from nearer the time. But Ive not seen anything that makes  me think Experian  didnt remove 
the information at the time it said it did. So, I think it acted reasonably in respect of this 
information.  
I have seen evidence  to show on balance that Experian contacted the businesses  which  
didnt agree to their entries being  deleted to query their accuracy. And Ive seen evidence  
that these businesses responded to say either  Mr G should contact them or that they thought 
the entry was accurate.  So, I dont  think Experian had the permission  of the relevant lenders 
to delete the information.  
Experian has said that it cant act independently  to remove  or change information on its 
records without permission from the relevant lender. It says this is, in part, to ensure that an 
individual cannot alter or improve  their credit history  by claiming information held is 
inaccurate  although I must stress there  is no suggestion from anyone in this case that this 
is what Mr G was trying to do. 
There do seem to be exceptions to this  such as what Experian did with the soft searches 
on Mr Gs credit file. But overall, I dont think Experians position in this respect  was 
unreasonable in this case. I dont think there was enough evidence  for Experian to delete  all 
of the disputed information on the strength of Mr Gs request alone  especially as some  of 
the businesses  did not give it permission to delete  this information. I think  it was reasonable 
for Experian to ask Mr G to contact the relevant lenders to obtain  their permission to remove  
the information from his credit  file. 
Experian explained to Mr G that it had put notices on the relevant entries  on his credit  file to 
say that they were  disputed, and that any potential lender  should  take this into account.  It 
also arranged with Mr G to put a password on his credit file so that potential  future  lenders 
knew they were dealing with Mr G. And it gave Mr G details for Action Fraud. I think  this was 
appropriate and reasonable  action to take while it waited for Mr G to contact the relevant 
businesses. 
I know Mr G questions the lawful basis upon  which Experian was able to process information 
about him which he did not give consent  to and for which  he withdrew his consent for it to 
continue to process. Experian  has told Mr G that consent will have been given by the person 
seeking credit. As Ive explained, because Experian had received the information from other 
businesses, it needed the other businesses to say whether they agreed that it was 
Ref: DRN12975464inaccurate. There is a process in place through which  information  held by a data controller 
can be challenged and Im satisfied it was reasonable for Experian to follow  this. 
I do sympathise with Mr G that as a victim of identity theft he was required to put the work in 
with those businesses  which  didnt agree to their information being deleted  from his credit  
file. And I get why he feels its unfair  that a third party can authorise  a lender to record  
information on his credit file which he cannot remove  his permission for. 
However, I think Experian did take reasonable steps  to ensure the data it was reporting was 
accurate by contacting the various  businesses to query the validity of the data and removing 
the information that was confirmed to be incorrect. I also think it was reasonable to require 
the permission  of those businesses before it could delete the information.  It was only when 
the businesses  refused  permission that Experian asked Mr G to contact them.  It also 
registered Mr Gs disagreement  with the data.  So, it complied with Schedule I Part II 
(paragraph 7) of the DPA.  Overall, I dont think it needs to do anything  to resolve Mr Gs 
complaint. 
I do understand why Mr G is not happy  about  this and Ive taken account of all of the 
reasons hes given as to why he shouldnt have been responsible  for sorting it out. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Michael Ball
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1297546