K820x#14complaint
Mr W1 brings  this complaint as executor of the estate of Mr W2. It relates to an equity 
release mortgage  taken  out jointly by Mr and Mrs W2, Mr W1s parents, with Aviva Equity 
Release UK Limited. After  Mrs W2s death in December 2016,  the property mortgaged  to 
Aviva passed to Mr W2 under the laws of survivorship. Mr W2 died on 27 April 2017.  By a 
Grant of Probate  dated 6 September 2017  Mr W1 was appointed  executor of his fathers 
estate.
Mr W1 has complained that Aviva has been  obstructive and unhelpful  since Mr W2s death  
in relation to repayment of the mortgage.  Mr W1 wants  the estate to be put back in the 
position it would have been  in if the mortgage  had been repaid in 2014,  with no early  
repayment charge  (ERC).  Alternatively,  Mr W1 would like interest applied to the mortgage  
since Mr W2 died to be refunded to the estate.
background
I will summarise  the background to the complaint briefly. Although there is a considerable 
amount of material in the case file, the events complained about which relate to the 
mortgage (rather than other matters)  can be summarised below.
On 30 May 2003 Mr and Mrs W2 took out an equity release  mortgage  with Norwich Union, 
now known as Aviva. They borrowed £39,500.  The nature  of this type of mortgage is that no 
monthly repayments need to be made;  instead interest rolls up and forms part of the overall  
balance. 
The mortgage conditions  say that the mortgage  is designed to last for the lifetime of the 
borrowers, or until the borrowers need long-term care.  If the mortgage is repaid early,  then 
an ERC will apply, calculated in accordance  with the mortgage terms and conditions.
In 2013 Mrs W2s health meant she needed  a full-time care package. Mr W2 also needed 
some assistance with his daily living, but not at the same level as that required by Mrs W2. 
On behalf of his parents, Mr W1 enquired by email about repaying the mortgage. It seems 
Aviva didnt receive the emails. 
After a complaint  was raised about this in 2014 Aviva noted  that Mr and Mrs W2 couldnt 
afford to repay the mortgage if it included the ERC. Aviva offered compensation of £100 for 
some issues  around poor customer  service,  and it also provided referral  rights to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.  Mr and Mrs W2 didnt accept the compensation or raise  a 
complaint with us.
The mortgage wasnt repaid in 2014. After Mr W2 passed away  in 2017, Mr W1 became 
Executor of his estate. Mr W1 complained to Aviva about the mortgage.  He was unhappy 
about a number of issues:
the ERC  not expiring after ten years;
interest continuing to accrue on the loan;
the sale of the lifetime  mortgage; Mr W1 thought it wasnt  suitable for his parents.
In its response dated 21 June 2017  Aviva explained  the ERC  didnt  expire after ten years. 
Aviva also explained  that it hadnt  sold the mortgage, and had explained this to Mr W1 in 
2013 and 2014. Aviva also clarified that interest  continued to accrue  on the loan until it was 
Ref: DRN17148672repaid. Finally, Aviva, as a gesture  of goodwill, reinstated its offer of compensation from 
2014. Aviva  also acknowledged  it hadnt  responded to emails in October  and November 
2014, for which a further £150  was offered.  A cheque for £250 was sent to Mr W1 for this.
In April 2018 Aviva agreed  to the transfer of the title to the property from the joint names of 
Mr and Mrs W2 into Mr W1s  sole name. This was so Mr W1 could get a mortgage in his own 
name from another lender  to repay  the mortgage  to Aviva. The mortgage was redeemed  on 
16 May 2018. Because it was repaid after the death  of the last surviving borrower  (Mr W2), 
there was no ERC payable. The total amount repaid was around £125,500.
Mr W1 complained to us. An investigator  looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be 
upheld. Mr W disagreed  and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He 
has made some further points, which I summarise below:
he felt he was given  false hope  in 2014 that Aviva would consider waiving the ERC;
if his emails in October and November 2014 had been dealt with, he might have 
brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service  at that time;
the issues with Aviva around consenting to the transfer of the property to him caused  
him considerable stress  and inconvenience;
Aviva  had a vested interest in delaying matters, because of the continuing interest  
added to the loan;
the cheque  for £250 has never  been cashed  and will need to be reissued.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
First, I would like to offer my condolences to Mr W1 for the loss of his parents, within  a few 
months of each other. I can see from what hes told us that the effect of this on Mr W1 is 
immeasurable. 
But I think I must clarify at the outset that this complaint is brought in Mr W1s capacity as 
Executor of Mr W2s estate, and not personally  by Mr W1. Indeed,  Mr W1 isnt entitled to 
bring a complaint to us in his own right about his own grievances with Aviva  because hes 
not Avivas customer.  
This means  that I wont  be considering  any of Mr W1s  personal complaints in relation  to the 
transfer of title. Thats because (a) hes not Avivas customer  and (b) even if he was, a 
transfer of title to land isnt a regulated activity covered under our rules.
the ERC:  In 2013 and 2014 Mr and Mrs W2s circumstances were such that, if the mortgage  
was repaid, they didnt qualify for a refund of the ERC. Although  Mrs W2 needed a daily care 
package, Mr W2s needs, as assessed by his GP, didnt meet the criteria set by Aviva for a 
waiver of the ERC. In the circumstances,  Aviva wasnt under  any obligation to waive the 
ERC at that time.
interest continuing to accrue : The terms of the mortgage say that on the death of the 
surviving borrower, the mortgage has to be repaid. On 23 May 2017, shortly  after Mr W2 
died, Aviva wrote to Mr W1 to explain this. It also said that interest would continue to be 
added until the mortgage was repaid, and that if payment wasnt  made  within 12 months it 
may take recovery action  and add the cost to the outstanding  balance.
Ref: DRN17148673I appreciate Mr W1 was upset about  this. But Avivas letter explains clearly what the position 
is in relation to the mortgage. Im satisfied Aviva was entitled to continue to add interest until 
the mortgage was finally repaid. 
Generally with equity  release mortgages  when the borrower dies the house  would  be sold by 
the Executors and the debt repaid out of the proceeds of sale. But the complication  here was 
that Mr W1 wanted to buy the house  from the estate  but couldnt get a mortgage in his own 
name until his name was on the title. But Aviva  isnt responsible for the complications with 
the legal  title to the property that caused delay in Mr W1 being able to get a mortgage from 
another lender. So Im satisfied that Aviva is entitled to be paid all the interest  added  until the 
date of redemption  of the mortgage.
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded Aviva has acted incorrectly  in the way its 
administered this mortgage account.  I see that Aviva sent Mr W1 a cheque for £250 for 
trouble and upset  which  has now expired. The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt award 
compensation to Executors for trouble and upset.  So I leave it to Aviva to liaise  directly  with 
Mr W1 to reissue this cheque.
Mr W1 has brought a separate complaint to us about the sale of this equity release mortgage  
against the financial adviser who sold it, on which I am also issuing  a decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W1 on behalf  of 
the estate of Mr W2 to accept or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1714867