K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr H has said that he wasnt aware that he had the cover and he thinks it was added  to his 
account without  his knowledge  or consent. But I think BoS made it clear that Mr H didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this after such a long time has passed. I say this because  Ive been given a 
copy of the credit card application which was completed at the time and this includes a 
section about  PPI. In this section there are two options  a box to sign to show that PPI is 
wanted and another signature box to complete  if the cover is not required. Mr H has signed 
in the Yes box, indicating he wanted  the cover. If he didnt  want  to take out the PPI he could 
have signed in the No box.
Ive also seen copies  of Mr Hs credit card statements and I can see that the charge for PPI 
is shown as a separate  entry. If Mr H didnt know what  this charge was for or hadnt agreed 
to take out this cover, I think  he would have queried this with BoS sooner than he did.
So when taking  everything into account  I think BoS made Mr H aware that the cover was 
optional and that he agreed to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he didnt want it.
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr H got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said, including  what  he has said about not needing  
the cover  as he was entitled to at least three months sick pay. But this policy  could pay out 
for up to 12 months which would  be in addition to, and potentially  for longer than, any sick 
pay he may have received. Ive also noted  that he has told us he could have asked his family 
to help support  him. While I appreciate  his family  would have wanted to help, such  support 
cant be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change, meaning they are unable to 
provide any financial  assistance. So these points  dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN18440762my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1844076