K821x#15complaint
In summary,  Miss D has complained that Madison  CF UK Limited (trading as 118118 
Money) provided her with a loan when she wasnt able to afford it. 
background
In November 2015 Madison gave Miss D a loan for £1,000  repayable over two years.  It was 
a high interest loan with an interest  rate of 99.9% APR. The total charge for the credit was 
£920.96, which meant the total amount repayable by Miss D for the £1,000 she was 
borrowing, was £1,920.96. The monthly repayments were £80.04. Madisons records show 
that Miss Ds net salary  was £1,600 a month and the purpose  of the loan was Holiday or 
travel. 
In its response to Miss Ds complaint, Madison said the that it carried  out verification checks 
to validate the information  provided on the application. It also said the application  was 
reviewed. It went on to say that a welcome  call was carried out once the loan was approved 
and Miss D had confirmed that the loan was affordable. It was satisfied the loan was 
correctly approved. 
Miss Ds concerns were  investigated by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think  Madison 
irresponsibly provided the loan to Miss D. He did think  it shouldve  taken steps to carry out a 
more detailed picture of her financial situation  by carrying out a credit  search and asking for 
payslips. But he didnt  think  there was anything in the credit search it did carry  out, which 
meant it shouldnt have lent to her.  
Miss D didnt agree and provided information to the adjudicator about her finances.  The case  
was passed to me for review. I issued my provisional decision in respect of Miss Ds 
complaint on 1 March  2021. I explained  why I thought Miss Ds complaint should  be upheld. 
Miss D accepted my decision. Madison didnt. It provided details of the affordability 
calculation and review  it had carried out, together  with its affordability report. In summary it 
said:
The credit  file was obtained at the time the application was submitted. It accepted  
Miss D was on a low income, but it didnt accept the income Miss D stated and 
carried out a TAC check to verify it. 
It offered  Miss D a loan of £1,000. It made  the cost of the repayments over 18 
months clear to her during the application.  If she didnt think the repayments were  
affordable, it questioned  why she would continue to apply  for the loan.
Its checks picked up that her income  may have  been inflated. So, it reduced her 
income to £1,280  a month. After  considering all her outgoings it assessed that she 
would have disposable income  of £448.71  a month. Assuming she only earned  
£1,000 a month she would still have disposable income £168.71  a month  after her 
loan repayments.  It thought this figure  would  be too low based on the payslips 
received and it thought there  was little to suggest the loan wasnt  affordable.  
It thought the credit  report showed  no signs of her being credit  hungry or in an 
unsustainable credit  crisis. It felt the report indicated her recent  accounts  Miss D was 
in control of her finances and had moved  on from her previous defaults.  
It thought it could offer Miss D some  discretion  in relation to her defaults  due to the 
total being £978 and 3 being under £100. The last default status was in 2013, 27 
months before the loan was approved. 
Ref: DRN15523682In summary it believed it acted with due care and certified the loan within  its 
affordability checks. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this case, Ive focussed  on the information and issues  that I think  are 
important to deciding  whether this loan was affordable for Miss D. And this means that I 
dont think it necessary to address every  argument  that the parties have made.  But I would 
like to reassure Miss D and Madison that I have carefully considered  all of the evidence  and 
arguments that they have put forward in this case.  
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Ds complaint. Having done so, Ive 
decided to uphold  Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Madison treated Miss D 
fairly and reasonably when it provided her with the loan.
1)Did Madison complete  reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that Miss 
D would  be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
2)If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown  at the time? 
3)Ultimately,  did Madison make a fair lending decision?   
4)Did Madison act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
Did Madison complete  reasonable  and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that Miss D 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules  that Madison  had to follow, required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess,  whether Miss D could afford  to repay the loan she was wanting  to take 
out. This is often referred to as an affordability assessment.  
The rules  dont set out what  specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think  what  
this meant  in practice, was that the scope and extent of Madisons checks needed to reflect  
the nature  of the loan,  bearing in mind  things such as the amount of credit,  the interest rate, 
the duration of the loan, the monthly  and total amounts repayable, and any indications  of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks  Madison needed to carry as part of its affordability assessment, needed to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the loan back would cause  Miss D any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for her. It would  also need to take into account  factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the term of the loan and the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the 
interest rate being charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above I think a reasonable and proportionate check needed  to be 
more thorough if Miss D had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult 
for her to make the loan repayments with a low income. 
Ref: DRN15523683It would also need to be more thorough the higher  the amounts she had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments  on a given income. 
The length  of the loan term would  also be relevant,  partly because  where  the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances  affecting Miss Ds ability  to repay, 
where repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about  whether Madison completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss D would be able to repay her loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary,  then, the circumstances of this loan application are as follows:
Miss D was applying for a high-cost credit product which  had an APR of 99.9%
Miss D (as Ill explain below) was on a relatively low income. Madisons  income checks  
identified that the income  figure  Miss D gave on her application, may been inflated.
The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Miss D borrowed.  
Miss Ds credit file indicated that she had previously defaulted on other credit she had 
taken out in previous years.
Individually and taken  together,  there  are several  risk indicators here. So, I think that it was 
important for Madison  to have conducted checks which gave it a thorough understanding  of 
Miss Ds financial position  and to scrutinise the information it gathered carefully,  asking 
follow-up questions where necessary, before agreeing to lend.
In response to my provisional decision,  Madison provided some more information  about the 
verification checks it says it carried out to validate the information Miss D gave it. I am a little 
surprised that Madison  didnt supply this information when it originally provided our service  
with its file. And it gave  no explanation as to what it had done and what  it found out about 
Miss Ds finances, when it wrote to her with its response to her complaint. 
Madison has now said that the checks it carried out on Miss Ds income show that she may 
have inflated it. And as a result, it reduced  her income figure to £1,280 a month. Its not clear 
to me from what it has said, how it concluded  that this figure was an accurate reflection of 
Miss Ds income. The income figure it arrived at was approximately  a 20% reduction in the 
income figure Miss D had declared  to it.
This significant difference in income, should  in my view, at the very least have put Madison 
on notice to make further enquiries about  Miss Ds finances. The fact that it says it had 
identified she may have inflated  her income  on her application, suggests to me that it should  
objectively, have  questioned her about the accuracy  of all the information she provided  it 
with. If she hadnt  provided  accurate information  about her income, then arguably it was 
quite possible she had not given accurate information about  her expenditure as well.  
I think its possible that Miss D inflated  her income  position because she thought  it might  
improve her chances  of getting  the loan. And I think its also possible she may have done 
this because she was in some financial difficulty. I also think this is something that Madison  
should have considered and investigated.  Instead  of interrogating further all the information  
Ref: DRN15523684Miss D provided on her application,  its approach  appears to have been to adjust the loan 
term in order to reduce  the monthly payments over a longer term. And I dont think it treated 
Miss D fairly by taking  that approach. 
So, notwithstanding what Madison has said in response to my provisional  decision,  Im still 
not satisfied that it carried  out reasonable or proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that the 
loan was affordable  for Miss D. And considering the circumstances of the loan application 
that Ive summarised  above, I think it should have.  
 
What would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown at the time?
I think Madison should have  ensured that the scope and extent of its checks were adapted to 
the circumstances of Miss Ds application.  This was a high cost loan being taken out by an 
individual with a relatively low income. Given this and the information  Madison had about 
Miss D from the checks it had carried out, further checks would in my opinion, need to 
establish that she was able to afford  the loan. 
In response to the adjudicators view,  Miss D provided additional information about her 
income. She has provided us with copies of her payslips for six weeks in September and 
October 2015. These show that her average  net salary  was £241 a week.  This equated 
around £1,000  a month, which was significantly different from the £1,600  a month  she had 
put in her application. 
Ive noted and thought  carefully about what Madison has said about Miss Ds income. But I 
think the payslips  provided by her are more borrower focussed and appropriate  given the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  that Ive summarised above. And I also believe they 
provide an authentic picture of Miss Ds income at around the time the loan was approved.
Also, the figure of around £1,000 a month  that Ive set out as a more  realistic assessment of 
Miss Ds income, isnt substantially different from the figure of £1,084 that Madison 
suggested from its analysis of her payslips. 
It may have been that Miss D was basing  the income figure she put on her application, on 
previous or anticipated future  earnings. But for the reasons Ive already summarised, I think 
Madison should  have  taken steps to satisfy itself that the information  Miss D gave  it in 
relation to her income was accurate. And as Ive explained, I dont think  it did that.
Miss D now acknowledges that she didnt provide accurate information on her application.  I 
have thought about this carefully. Id like to be clear that I dont think  this was a responsible  
way for Miss D to have completed her application. Lenders are entitled to expect customers 
to respond in good faith when completing a loan application. Whilst borrowers may not know  
all the details, they are asked about exactly,  this discrepancy in her income was significant. 
Having said that, the CONC rules  under  which Madison operated at this time do anticipate 
that borrowers may not always provide accurate information. These rules require lenders to 
take proportionate steps to establish  whether a loan applicant can afford  the loan  
including, in most circumstances  taking steps to verify customer  declarations about income 
and expenditure.
Madison accepts and says that it needed  to carry out verification checks in relation to 
Miss Ds financial circumstances. And given Miss Ds relatively low income, it seems logical 
to me that in this case, reasonable  and proportionate checks should  have  included  verifying 
her income. Madison  has now explained that it did this through a TAC check. But as Ive 
already said, I think it needed to have carried out a more borrower focussed check. And I 
Ref: DRN15523685think the payslips  Miss D has provided  are indicative of what was required in the particular 
circumstances of this case.  If Madison had checked  Miss Ds income in this way, it would 
have seen from her payslips that her actual income  wasnt what she had said it was on her 
application.
Although Madison has said that it verified Miss Ds income, it appears to have accepted what 
she said about her expenditure. But for the reasons Ive set out already, I think  it should 
have interrogated  that information  as well, given what  its said about what  it identified 
regarding her income. So, I have concerns as to whether the expenditure information  Miss D 
gave was accurate.  And this puts in doubt in my opinion, Miss Ds disposable income figures  
that Madison has calculated.  
Madisons own calculations suggest, that if Miss Ds monthly income was assumed to be 
£1,000, she would have had approximately  £168  surplus income per month. But as Ive 
explained, I think Madison should  have verified  Miss Ds expenditure given what it identified  
about her income.  Especially given that its own calculations showed Miss Ds monthly 
finances would have had very little headroom for the duration of this loan. And as a result, I 
think this all suggests that Miss D was unlikely to have been  able to sustainably repay the 
loan over its full term. 
Madison has also provided  a copy of a credit search for Miss D that it now says was carried 
out as part of the verification process  and checks. I agree that this would be an appropriate 
check to have carried out when Madison was considering whether to lend to Miss D.
In response to my provisional decision,  Madison has said that in summary,  it thought  the 
credit report  showed that Miss D was in control of her finances. It also said it thought it could 
offer Miss D some discretion in relation to her defaults, due to the total being £978 and 3 
being under  £100. The last default status  was in 2013, 27 months before the loan was 
approved. 
Ive reviewed this credit  report.  And I have  a different opinion on the information  contained  in 
it than Madisons. Im concerned to see that there were 5 other accounts which Miss D had 
defaulted on in the previous 5 years, the most  recent of which was in 2013. I dont agree with 
Madison that the information suggests that a degree  of discretion should have been 
exercised. Whilst there may not have been a recent  history of missing payments on Miss Ds 
current lines of credit, and the last of the defaults  may have been  in 2013; I think  the defaults  
indicate not only a history  of credit default, but a history of not being able to maintain credit  
payments.  
In addition, the credit file shows  that Miss D was making regular payments on her bank 
overdraft, an unsecured loan and her credit card. And I note that the balance on Miss Ds 
overdraft was close to its limit as was the balance on her credit card account.  And she 
seems to have been making relatively  small  monthly payments on her credit card. I think this 
indicates that she wasnt in a position to make  inroads into repaying  this outstanding debt. 
And whilst Ive noted what Madison has said, this all suggests to me that Miss Ds income 
was relatively low, and her debt position already stretched at the point she sought  this loan.
So, I think if Madison  had reviewed this information,  together with the information it would 
have had if it had verified  Miss Ds income and expenditure in the way I think  it should, this 
all should have led it to question whether Miss D would be able to afford to repay this loan. 
And if it had, I think it should  reasonably have concluded that she wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay  it. 
Ref: DRN15523686Putting things  right 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss D to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest  and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt  have been provided to her. So, I think Miss D has lost out and Madison should 
put things right for her. Madison should:
 
a)Remove all interest, fees and charges  applied  to the loan from the outset. Any 
payments made by Miss D should then be deducted  from the new starting  balance.  If 
the payments  Miss D has made  total more than the amount she was originally  lent, 
then any surplus should  be treated as overpayments  and refunded  to her with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on any overpayments made, from the date they were paid 
by Miss D to the date the complaint is settled. 
b)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  above should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on the loan. If this results  in a surplus, then the 
surplus should be paid to Miss D. However,  if there is still an outstanding  balance 
then Madison should agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss D, bearing in 
mind the need  to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions and 
taking into account her current ability to repay the loan. 
c) Remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ds credit file as a result  of this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to deduct tax from this interest. Madison should 
give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is to uphold Miss Ds complaint about 
Madison CF UK Limited. It needs to calculate  and pay Miss D compensation using the 
methodology Ive set out in this decision.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1552368