K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued applying 
increasing amounts  of charges to their overdraft when they were in difficulty .
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that Lloyds should  have  
realised that Mr and Mrs Cs overdraft had become unsustainable for them in March 2013  
and so it needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr and Mrs Cs 
overdraft from this point.  Lloyds didnt agree in full and as Mr and Mrs C didnt accept Lloyds 
alternative offer of settlement  the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Lloyds will be familiar  with all the rules, regulations and good  industry  practice we consider  
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I also think Lloyds acted  unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and associated fees after it renewed Mr and Mrs Cs 
overdraft in March  2013. By this point, it ought  to have been clear that Mr and Mrs C were  in 
no position to sustainably repay  what they owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Cs statements  leading up to the renewal shows  they hadnt  really had a credit  
balance on their account for a prolonged period. Indeed, theyd had regular  returned  
payments and had also exceeded their limit. In these  circumstances,  it ought  to have been 
apparent Mr and Mrs C were unlikely to be able to repay what  they owed within  a reasonable 
period with overdraft  interest, fees and associated charges continuously being added. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive thought  about  the payments  Lloyds has referred to. But this 
was a £10,000.00 overdraft facility. And despite  what Lloyds has referred to it isnt in dispute 
Mr and Mrs C struggled  to see a credit balance, had returned payments  and exceeded their 
limit. Lloyds also appears to accept  it took five years  after Mr and Mrs Cs income dropped  
for it to offer them any kind of assistance.  Finally,  Ive also seen Lloyds reference  to funds 
from a guarantor loan provider. But I dont think funds from a high-cost credit provider going 
into Mr and Mrs Cs account are indication that they were in a strong financial position, or 
that an overdraft  of £10,000.00 remained sustainable.  
So having  carefully thought about  everything, I think that Lloyds should have stopped 
providing the overdraft  on the same terms in March  2013, stopped adding fees and charges 
and instead treated Mr and Mrs C with forbearance . All of this means that Lloyds should 
have realised Mr and Mrs C was experiencing financial  difficulty, werent using their overdraft 
as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same  terms. As Lloyds didnt 
react to Mr and Mrs Cs overdraft usage and instead  continued charging in the same  way, I 
think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.  
Ref: DRN14911782Mr and Mrs C ended  up paying  additional interest, fees and charges  on their overdraft and 
this ended up exacerbating  their financial difficulty.  So I think that Mr and Mrs C lost out 
because of what Lloyds  did wrong  and that it should  put things right.
Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Mr and Mrs C.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint for Lloyds  to put things right by:
Reworking Mr and Mrs Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from March  2013  onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Mr and Mrs C to arrange a suitable repayment  
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate  to record negative  information on          
Mr and Mrs Cs credit file, it should backdate this to March  2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr and Mrs C along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were  made  (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then Lloyds should remove  any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Cs 
credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1491178