K821x#15complaint
Miss H says Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited gave her bad advice and poor service 
after she made a claim  on her motor insurance  policy. Miss H is represented by Mr M.
background
On the evening of 2 August 2018,  Miss H was at a concert when the police told her that her 
campervan had been vandalised. The vehicle  was insecure, so they advised  her to drive  it 
home. Miss H says she reported  the incident  to Markerstudy when she got there. She called 
it again the next day, as in daylight  she could see all the damage.  
Miss H says she told Markerstudy at that point that there were  signs of human waste,  fluids 
and drug-related items in the van. She says an adviser told her to remove  personal 
belongings before the van was collected for repair. In doing so, Miss H cut herself.  She had 
medical treatment and was put on medication  for a year to protect  her against infection. She 
sent emails to Markerstudy on 4 August 2018  complaining about the van not having been  
cleaned. It agreed to find a specialist cleaning  firm to do that two days later. The work  was 
done on 14 August  2018. Miss H thinks Markerstudy  should have acted more quickly. 
Markerstudy accepted  that its claims department hadnt given Miss H the right level of 
service. It said that led to a delay.  It offered Miss H £100 compensation. Markerstudy  said it 
was part of its standard process to tell consumers that personal items should be removed 
from vehicles. But it said it wouldnt expect consumers to endanger themselves by doing so. 
One of our investigators  considered Miss Hs complaint. She said Markerstudy shouldnt  
have asked Miss H to enter the van after it was aware of the human waste,  drug-related 
items and broken glass in there. She said Miss H had reported this on 2 August 2018  and 
also on the following  day. She didnt  think Markerstudy had caused  an unreasonable  delay.  
But she said if it had noted  the extent of the damage  at the start, a cleaning  firm would have 
been instructed  sooner. That would have speeded  up the process.  She thought it should pay 
Miss H a further £500 for distress and inconvenience given all that happened.  
Markerstudy said only Miss H knew the actual  condition of the van, so the onus was on her 
to decide whether it was safe to remove personal items. It said she would have been given 
advice by the police. And it said Markerstudy hadnt instructed her to remove  any items. The 
investigator didnt  change her view.  She said Miss H had acted on what Markerstudy said  
and it should have realised that there  was potential danger to her in removing items from the 
van. Markerstudy asked  for a review  of the case by an ombudsman.    
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
There isnt a recording of the call in which Miss H told Markerstudy  about  all the unsafe 
items in the van. I dont think she did that on 2 August 2018, as I dont think  she was fully 
aware of them.  It was dark by the time Miss H saw the damaged  van, and it seems the 
police hadnt noted the full extent and nature of the damage. Although they gave Miss H 
gloves and something to sit on whilst driving the van home, I think they would have advised 
her not to enter  the van had they noted  all the items  she later found in it.   
Markerstudys file notes show that on 3 August 2018  Miss H told it there  was human waste 
in the van. The entry says she was advised  about  the repair process and that the vehicle 
would be collected  as soon as possible.  Markerstudy accepts that as part of the normal 
Ref: DRN13333462script the advisor  would  have mentioned removing personal items before the van was 
collected. And according to Markerstudys  notes,  it wasnt  until 6 August 2018 that Miss H 
told it about the suspected illegal  substances and drug-related equipment in the van. 
The details set out in the notes dont tally with the content of the emails  Miss H sent to 
Markerstudy on 4 August  2018. In those  emails, Miss H complained about having had to 
touch items  in the van, despite the human waste,  body  fluids and drugs in there. She also 
said shed asked over  and over for specialist cleaners to be instructed. She queried why 
that request  didnt  get immediate attention from Markerstudy. 
In my opinion, the evidence shows  that Markerstudy  knew  there was human waste  in the 
van 3 August 2018. Based on that alone, I dont  think it was good service not to arrange  for a 
specialist cleaner to assess it before Miss H entered the vehicle. I think  its very unlikely  that 
a garage would have accepted the van for assessment and repair in that state. And I think 
its more likely than not that Miss H also mentioned  the drug-related  items on this date. I 
cant see why she wouldnt have done so when informing Markerstudy about the shocking 
state of the van. That explains the content of the emails  she sent to it the following day. 
Markerstudy says Miss H wasnt required to collect any items from the van. It says it was for 
her to decide whether it was safe to do so, which I think  is a fair point. I dont think its clear  
why Miss H didnt tell Markerstudy that she wasnt going to sift through items in the van until 
the cleaning was done, due to the danger that would put her in. As far as I can see, after 
giving Markerstudy a full account of the vans contents on 3 August 2018,  by the morning of 
the next day shed already removed some  items.  She then complained to it about being 
exposed to danger. But even if Markerstudy  had taken on board what she said the previous 
day, it wouldnt have  been able to get a specialist  cleaner on site within 24 hours.  
In my opinion, its more likely than not that Markerstudy could have arranged for a cleaning 
assessment to be done earlier than it did, which caused a delay of a few days. I think it 
should have advised Miss H to stay out of the van until after that. Miss H may have been 
perplexed by the fact that Markerstudy didnt comment along those lines. But I dont think  
shes shown that she was required by Markerstudy to go into the van to collect  personal 
items immediately. I think she could reasonably have avoided  doing so until the cleaning 
was done - even  though Markerstudy  failed to point that out to her.    
Entering the van and sifting through it must have been very unpleasant and distressing for 
Miss H. Injuring herself  and facing the possibility of a serious  infection  must have added 
greatly to her distress. I think it could have  been  avoided had Markerstudy  noted  that Miss H 
faced a potentially  dangerous  situation  or had she decided not to enter the van again  until 
the specialist cleaning had been done.  So although I think  Miss H faced a substantial  
amount of distress and inconvenience, I dont think Markerstudy was wholly to blame for it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think it would be fair and reasonable for Markerstudy to pay 
Miss H a further £200 compensation (£300 in total) for distress  and inconvenience.  
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Markerstudy didnt comment.  
Miss H gave more details about the incident and the effect it had on her. 
Miss H said all the facts were given to Markerstudy on the night of the incident and that the 
police were at fault for making her drive the van home. Miss H said she was instructed by 
Markerstudy that evening  and again the following  day to enter  the van to retrieve her 
personal items. She says shed made it clear that it wasnt safe to do so. After Miss H was 
injured, a friend told her not to go back in the van. She said she then began pressing 
Ref: DRN13333463Markerstudy to instruct specialist cleaners, which she said took many calls on her part. She 
felt Markerstudy had accused her of lying, despite  her losses  and the worry of infection.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Markerstudy was in a position  to instruct Miss H to go into the van. But insurers 
usually advise consumers  to ensure that their belongings are collected.  
In this case I think common  sense  should  have prevailed. I think  the advisor  should  have left 
that part of the script  out, or should have qualified it by saying items  should  only be removed 
if safe to do so. But it was Miss Hs decision  to re-enter the van. I think  she was best placed  
to decide whether that was safe or not. Miss H could  have told Markerstudy  she wasnt 
prepared to touch  anything in the van until it had been cleaned  thoroughly.  Instead,  from 
what Miss H has said, she started  to clean it herself  by removing the worst items. 
Miss H says she called  Markerstudy  numerous  times from 3 August 2018 onwards,  and 
eventually it agreed to instruct a specialist cleaner. Markerstudy did that on 6 August 2018. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  I think it should have acted more quickly.  It knew  the 
extent of the problem three days earlier, so there was a delay in it taking appropriate  action. 
But it was a relatively short delay. The main problem  was that Miss H had entered the van.   
Ive considered Miss Hs recent comments carefully.  I think  its clear  that the experience 
shes had was very traumatic.  I have great  sympathy with all shes  been through. Although  I 
dont think she can show that Markerstudy  caused  most of it, in my opinion,  the £100  
compensation it offered her wasnt enough.  I think its fair and reasonable to require  it to pay 
Miss H £300 in total for its part in the distress and inconvenience  shes  faced.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Miss H a further £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience (£300  in 
total). Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Miss H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1333346