K821x#15complaint
Mrs G says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs G took out in 2002. It was added  to her 
account when  she applied for her card by post.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint  because  I dont  think Barclays gave  Mrs G clear 
enough information about the policy  specifically around the costs of the policy in relation to 
the benefit it gave.  
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs G  as she had sick pay and savings which meant  she 
could have met her credit card repayments for a while  without the policy.  So I think  Mrs G 
probably wouldnt have  wanted the policy if shed properly understood the cost and benefits.  
And I dont  think Mrs G wouldve bought  the policy if Barclays had given her enough 
information about it. So, I think Mrs G has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Barclayss comments,  including what  it said about the inconsistency  
in Mrs Gs recollection of the existing  cover she had in place. There  was some confusion  
about Mrs Gs employer  when clarifying  her sick pay  and that this has now been resolved. 
Mrs G then told us that she had less sick pay than she originally told us. She also explained 
that there  had been an oversight when she originally didnt tell us about savings she had. Im 
satisfied with Mrs Gs explanation.
Ive considered these  changes  carefully, but on balance,  I dont find what  Mrs G has told us 
unusual, given her personal circumstances at the time. And I still think I should uphold  the 
complaint.
putting things right
Barclays should put Mrs G in the financial  position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out 
PPI.
A.Barclays should  find out how much Mrs G would have owed when she closed her credit  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
Ref: DRN10003402So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs G owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Mrs G would  have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Mrs G would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs G paid more than enough to clear  her balance,  Barclays should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs G paid. And it should  carry  on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mrs G wouldve owed Barclays something  on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D.Barclays should  tell Mrs G what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Barclays  to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mrs G a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1000340