K821x#15complaint
Mr As complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited avoided  (cancelled from the start 
as though it had never  existed)  his motorcycle insurance policy and refused to pay his claim 
after his motorcycle was stolen from outside his work.
background
Mr A phoned  MCE on 8 September to buy a new policy after his previous one had lapsed.
MCE asked him where his motorcycle would be kept at his property.  Mr A said it would be 
kept in a garage.
A few months later on 12 April MCE  emailed Mr A to let him know that it didnt  consider  a 
communal parking area under flats to be a garage. It asked Mr A to get in touch if this meant 
the details hed given werent accurate. Mr A said he didnt remember reading  this email.
In July Mr A claimed on his policy after his motorcycle was stolen. MCE said Mr A didnt 
have a garage at his property and so had deliberately provided the wrong information when 
renewing his policy.  MCE also said Mr A had since moved from the address where he lived 
when he bought his policy. It avoided his policy, kept his premium  and refused to pay his 
claim.
While I was looking into things MCE accepted Mr A had an underground parking area at his 
property. It provided quotes  to show what it would have  charged Mr A if hed said he didnt 
have a garage, and if hed updated  his address when  he moved. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 August 2019 where I explained  what  I 
intended to tell MCE to do to put things right. In that decision I said:
Under the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure & Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) Mr A has 
a duty not to make a misrepresentation when buying or renewing his policy.  And for MCE to 
take any action  at all it needs to show that hes made whats  known as a qualifying 
misrepresentation.
One of the considerations  when  deciding if Mr A took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out his policy is the question  he was asked. Ive listened to 
the call between MCE and Mr A. MCE asked where  he keeps the motorcycle and he says in 
a garage.
Many dictionaries define a garage  as a building where a car is kept. I appreciate  the policy  
has a definition of garage but when considering the everyday meaning of a garage I can 
understand why Mr A thought this was the right answer. He told MCE the motorcycle was in 
a garage and MCE didnt ask any further questions to establish whether it was a private or 
shared space.
I understand MCE thinks that this was deliberate or reckless because the previous year hed 
answered differently  however I dont agree. The previous year Mr A bought his policy online 
so I expect he would have had a number  of options  to choose from. And with those options 
in front of him he chose what  he thought was the most appropriate option. I wouldnt 
necessarily expect him to remember what hed put the previous year and having listened  to 
the call he didnt seem  to have the previous years policy in front of him when calling.
Ref: DRN13823872So Im satisfied Mr A took reasonable care when he phoned to buy his policy  in September.
That means MCE cant take any action from that point.
However MCE sent Mr A an email  in April asking him to amend the information hed given 
when he bought his policy if the place he kept his motorcycle  didnt comply with its definition  
of a garage.
CIDRA says a failure by the consumer to confirm or amend particulars previously  given is 
capable of being a misrepresentation. Given the importance and implications of confirming 
the details, Id expect MCE to make it clear that this is an email  that might require action 
from Mr A  such  as through a subject line or bold heading that told him action  was required.
Ive looked at the subject  heading  and while I dont  think that was particularly clear,  Ive now 
seen a full copy  of the email and can see the header  said MCE INSURANCE POLICY 
NOTIFICATION  in large, capital letters. The email itself is then fairly short and says Mr A 
needs to call in if his motorcycle isnt kept in a private garage.  It also said if he didnt  do so it 
could affect his ability to make  a valid claim.
Having reviewed this email in its entirety  I now think its sufficiently  clear  that it was an 
important email that Mr A needed to act on. By sending  this Im satisfied MCE did enough to 
let Mr A know  he needed to amend the information  hed previously given. Ive seen MCEs 
records that show Mr A opened  this email in April, so although I appreciate he doesnt 
remember reading it I think  its most  likely he opened it.
In order for MCE to take any action at this point  it needs to show  it would have done 
something differently  if Mr A had got in touch. As MCE isnt able to retrospectively show 
what additional amount it would have  charged  Mr A if hed provided the information he 
should have done its provided  me with quotes  produced later. As these quotes vary 
depending on the date they were produced Ive based my decision on what I thinks  most 
accurate and also what produces a fair and reasonable outcome.
Due to variance in the quotes  showing the premium Mr A paid when he said his motorcycle  
was kept in a garage, Ive based my calculations on the amount Mr A actually paid. The 
quotes showing what Mr A should have paid if hed called after receiving the email are 
broadly in line with each  other. So Ive used the later one as this enables  me to compare this 
to the quote showing the premium adjustment that would  have  been  made  if hed given his 
new address.
MCE said Mr A paid a base premium of £336.92 when he bought his policy.  I understand the 
broker added an administration fee but Im not going to consider that as it would have  been  
added to any quote. If Mr A had contacted  MCE when he received the email it would have 
charged him £489.89  for 12 months.  Ive worked  this out to mean it would have charged him 
an additional  £101.98 for the remaining eight months of the policy.  So Im satisfied MCE 
would have done something  differently and that means Mr A made a qualifying 
misrepresentation.
Under CIDRA a qualifying  misrepresentation is either deliberate or reckless  or careless.
Mr A said he didnt  remember  reading  the email so I think  its most  likely he made a careless 
mistake as he didnt deliberately or recklessly ignore  the email.
As MCE  would still have provided Mr A with a policy its not entitled to avoid the policy.  So it 
should remove records of the avoidance from any internal or external databases and treat 
Ref: DRN13823873the policy as though  it was in force at the time of Mr As claim. MCE should also provide     
Mr A with a letter to say he hasnt  had a policy avoided.
Where an insurer would have charged  an additional  premium if the policyholder  (in this case
Mr A) had given the right information  CIDRA allows it to settle any claim proportionately. So
Ive considered what percentage of the premium Mr A ultimately  paid.
Mr A told us he moved address prior to the theft. The policy says he needed to let MCE 
know about any change  of address and this would have included  confirming where  the 
motorcycle was now kept at the new property.  It seems Mr A hadnt yet got around to letting
MCE know about his change of address. And I think he should have done.
MCE has shown Mr As premium would have reduced to £308.48 for a 12 month  policy if he 
phoned to let it know his new address. Its unclear under CIDRA whether this becomes a 
qualifying misrepresentation as MCE wouldnt have  charged him extra. However  my role is 
also to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the individual  
complaint. And here I think its fair and reasonable to base the proportionate settlement on 
the amount Mr A paid for his premium compared  to what he should have paid if hed 
amended his policy details as he should  have done.
Mr A hasnt been able to tell us exactly when he moved but said it was shortly  before the 
theft. On that basis I think its fair to conclude it was within about four weeks  of the theft so
Mr A should  have contacted MCE in July to say hed moved. If hed done that it would  have 
reduced his total premium  by £51.30 for the remainder of the year.
In total Mr A paid £336.92 for his premium when he should have paid £387.60. This means 
he paid 87% of what he should have  paid if hed taken reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. And so to put things right MCE should pay 87% of his claim in line with 
the remaining  terms and conditions of the policy. Due to the time hes been without the 
money it should add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the theft to the 
date it makes payment.
I accept this has caused Mr A distress  and inconvenience. Hes had the worry of thinking  his 
claim wasnt going to be paid at all and had the inconvenience of having  to change his car 
insurance. He also said he wasnt able to get the level of cover  he wanted with his new car 
insurer. To compensate  him for this I think MCE should pay Mr A an additional  £250  for the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused  him.
Mr A accepted my provisional decision and MCE had no further comments.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr A nor MCE had any further  comments I see no reason to depart  from my 
provisional findings. So Ill require MCE to resolve this complaint  in the way Ive set out 
above. 
Ref: DRN13823874my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require MCE Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Treat the policy  as though it was in force at the time of the theft and pay 87% of
Mr As claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy;
Add interest to that amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the theft
to the date it makes  payment1;
Remove any record of the avoidance  from any internal or external databases and
provide Mr A with a letter to say he hasnt had a policy avoided;  and
Pay him £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
MCE should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr As accepted my decision. If it pays later 
than this it should add interest to the compensation at a rate of 8% simple per year from the 
date of my decision to the date it makes payment. 
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If MCE considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN1382387