K820x#14Complaint
Mr Z is complaining about the advice he received from Phoenix Life Limited to transfer out of
his occupational pension scheme  to a personal  pension plan.
He feels he would be in a better  position  now if he had stayed in his employers scheme, as
he could have retired earlier and received  a tax-free  cash lump sum.
Background
Mr Z was a member of an occupational pension scheme. In 1992 he transferred to a section
32 buy-out personal  pension plan following advice from Britannia Life (now Phoenix Life.)
Mr Zs plan was designed to give him a guaranteed minimum  pension  (GMP)  at age 65,
which would be equivalent  to what he would have received from his occupational  pension
scheme which had a normal retirement  age of 65.
In 2001 Mr Zs pension transfer was looked at as part of the industry wide review  of pensions
at the time. As a result  of the review Phoenix Life offered  him £4,048  to compensate  for the
unsuitable advice  given.
Mr Z complained to Phoenix  Life about  the result of the review and it replied on 
19 November 2001 to say the review had been  carried out in line with the regulators 
guidelines. It told Mr Z he could contact this service  within six months of the date of its letter 
if he remained dissatisfied with its response, but he didnt contact us at that time.
In August  2015  Mr Z complained to Phoenix  Life about being unable  to take a 25% tax-free
lump sum from his plan.  Phoenix Life replied to say the terms and conditions of his plan
didnt allow him to take a lump sum because at the time it wasnt  funded  sufficiently to meet
the GMP. It told him if he remained unhappy  he could take his complaint to this service
within six months of the date of the letter. But he didnt approach  us that time.
In 2018 Mr Z complained  to Phoenix  Life again. He asked about  taking  a tax-free lump sum,
and he also mentioned that when hed taken out the plan hed been told he could take the
benefits at 60. Phoenix Life didnt reply fully until February 2018 (and its since paid Mr Z
compensation for this delay). It said that it had already  explained why he couldnt take a
tax-free lump sum, but the same applied to taking  the benefits  earlier  than 65; the fund
needed to be sufficient to meet the GMP at retirement age before any other  benefits  
including early retirement - could  be taken.
In April 2019 Mr Z brought his complaint to this service. He said, in summary,  that the advice
he received to transfer his pension led to him losing the flexibility he would have had with his
occupational scheme to retire early or take a tax-free lump sum.
Mr Zs complaint was considered by one of our investigators but she didnt uphold it. Mr Z
asked for his complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman for review and a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 15 January 2020  explaining why I didnt  intend  to uphold 
Mr Zs complaint. This is what I said:
There was an industry  wide review of the sale of pensions in the late 1990s.The advice  Mr Z 
received was investigated as part of this review.  It was established  that the advice was 
Ref: DRN15459182unsuitable and an offer of compensation was made in line with the regulators guidance at 
the time.  In April 2001 Mr Z accepted  the offer in full and final settlement of any claim he had 
in respect of the advice he received, and the redress was paid into his occupational pension  
scheme at that time.
Mr Z went on to query the amount  of compensation hed received and on 19 November  2001
Phoenix Life sent him its final response  letter with referral rights to this service. 
The rules  which applied  to us at the time said that a business can object to us looking into a
complaint thats  not referred  to us within six months of the date of the businesss final
response letter  unless exceptional circumstances  apply.  Mr Z didnt refer his complaint
about the advice he received about transferring  his pension  to us within the six month  time
limit, and Phoenix Life has objected to us looking into this.
Similarly, Phoenix Life responded  to Mr Zs complaint about being unable  to take a tax-free
lump sum in August 2015. It told him he had six months to bring a complaint  to us or it
wouldnt consent to us looking into it. And Mr Z didnt  refer his complaint to this service.
I cant see that there are any exceptional circumstances which  would have prevented Mr Z
contacting us about this within six months of the final response  letters  in 2001 and 2015. So,
I dont think I can consider Mr Zs complaint about the advice he received when he
transferred his occupational pension to his current plan or about  the fact that hes unable to
take a tax-free  cash lump  sum from his plan.
However, I can look at the part of Mr Zs complaint  relating  to taking his pension earlier than
65 and the reasoning is broadly the same as to why he cant take any tax-free cash. 
The funds in Mr Zs account are currently insufficient  to meet the level required to provide his
GMP and Phoenix Life has said this is unlikely to change before Mr Z turns 65. Phoenix  Life
will need  to provide the GMP whether  Mr Zs fund is large enough to fund the GMP or not. If
it isnt, it will need to make up the shortfall. This means there is no extra funding in the policy
to allow  for a tax-free cash  lump sum or for Mr Z to take his pension  earlier  than 65.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Zs plan. Section 9 refers  to early retirement, as
follows: 
Subject to General Condition and Provision  4, if appropriate, the Member may elect  at any
time on or after the Members 50th birthdayto commence retirement benefits earlier than
the Normal Retirement Date
And Section 4.1 of the technical specification document for buy-out plans says:
Provided that the ceding scheme  rules permit, the retirement benefits can be paid earlier
than the normal  retirement datesubject  to the pension payable  from the State pension  age
not being less than GMP.
General Condition and Provision 4 says:
The benefits  payable  hereunder shall be amended if necessary to provide the Guaranteed
Minimum Pensions specified in the Schedule.
Section 4.1 relates specifically to early  retirement, but General Condition and Provision 4
Ref: DRN15459183explains that any benefits payable are subject  to providing the GMP in the first instance.
Because Mr Zs policy doesnt  contain enough  money to provide his GMP, the additional
benefits arent available.
Mr Z says he doesnt understand how the policy can be underfunded from the figures  hes
received in his statements. Ive looked  at his statement  from February 2019 which appears
to be the one hes referred  to. This shows that the total transfer value of his fund at that time
was £138,976.30.  But the cost to meet the GMP if the policy was transferred was
£163,272.21. So, in February 2019 the policy was underfunded by over £24,000.
Although I understand this will be frustrating for Mr Z, Phoenix Life is not obliged  to provide
the benefits hed like to take from his pension plan because its not sufficiently funded  to 
provide the GMP.  So, I dont intend  to uphold his complaint.
I gave both parties the opportunity to provide any further comments or information they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Phoenix Life responded to say it had nothing  further  to add.
Mr Z didnt  reply to my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any further  comments or information  from Mr Z or 
Phoenix Life, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. Im not upholding 
Mr Zs complaint, for the reasons Ive explained  in my provisional decision and set out 
above.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Zs complaint about the advice  to transfer from an
occupational pension to a Section 32 plan, and his complaint about not being able to take a
tax-free cash lump sum from his pension now, have been referred outside the regulators
time limits. Im not upholding Mr Zs complaint about  not being able to retire early.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Helen Sutcliffe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1545918