K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained Retail Money Market Limited, trading as RateSetter, is holding him 
liable for a loan he didnt  apply for.
background
In early 2019 Mr C realised his son had fraudulently  applied for loans in his name. At the 
time hed persuaded his father that the money  being  paid into his account  was his salary  
rather than money from a personal  loan. Mr C withdrew money from his current  account and 
gave that to his son. 
Mr C noticed a loan from RateSetter when he got the paper copy of his statement from his 
bank (T). He then cancelled the direct debits  that had been taken from his account.  
RateSetter sent Mr C a notice of their intention to default the loan account. They felt theyd 
approved the loan which had been made using all of Mr Cs correct personal details. Theyd 
also sent a text to his mobile phone about the loan which theyd got a response to.
Mr C brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator didnt believe Mr C 
had applied  for the loan. Mr Cs son had a history of making fraudulent applications  and 
although Mr C had attempted  to stop him, there was very little he could actually do apart 
from report him to the police. He could also see that Mr C hadnt  benefitted  from the money. 
So he told RateSetter  they had to stop pursuing him for the loan.
RateSetter disagreed  with this outcome. They were particularly concerned Mr C had abetted  
his sons fraudulent behaviour. Theyve asked  an ombudsman  to consider Mr Cs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
There are two key aspects to this complaint.  Did Mr C apply for the loan? And did he benefit 
from the funds? 
loan application
There is no dispute that the online loan application  for £1,000  was made  in Mr Cs name. Ive 
seen the application and all the personal  details  including the account information  
belonged to Mr C. He has told us he didnt know of the loan at all until he reviewed his paper 
statement from T. It was then he noticed direct  debits being collected  by RateSetter.  
He cancelled those  with his bank so no further direct debits were collected  after the first two 
on 9 November and 10 December 2018.  These facts alone  dont mean  Mr C was aware or 
unaware of this loan.
I note Mr C had specifically taken  out other loans previously to help out his son so see no 
reason why hed deny  the existence of this one.
RateSetter suggests as Mr C had taken out other loans,  hed more  than likely recognise who 
RateSetter are so should have noticed  the £1,000 credit from them. Im not sure this would 
Ref: DRN13268042be the case. It could  just as easily be the name of his sons employer. It wasnt until he 
noticed the direct debits  on the statement Mr C took action.
RateSetter also confirmed  they sent a text message to Mr Cs mobile to advise him the 
online application had been successful. Mr C told us he didnt receive this. Its entirely 
possible his son  who lived with Mr C and his wife  got to his mobile phone and was able 
to delete this message. After all he would have been expecting  it.
One aspect here is that Mr C didnt use mobile or online banking which is how this 
application was made. I think  its more than likely  hed not have felt comfortable making this 
application online. 
My role is to consider the evidence  and make decisions based on the balance of 
probabilities. So having noted  Mr Cs verbal evidence and testimony about his son having 
taken out other financial products without his agreement, I believe the application made in 
Mr Cs name  was done fraudulently.
RateSetter has suggested Mr C should  have been  extra vigilant because his son had been 
dishonest in the past. I believe  Mr C felt theyd  got through  the worst of this and their son 
was starting to get things into a better position. Ive also noted the application for the loan 
was made  exactly at the time of the month when a new monthly statement would have 
started. This suggests  Mr Cs son deliberately did this to conceal  what  had happened as 
long as possible. I suspect Mr C wont make this mistake  again.
what happened to the funds?
Mr C has told us his son had told him hed got his salary paid into Mr Cs account. This 
resulted in Mr C willingly handing over the money he believed  his son had earned.  Bank 
statements from this date show daily cash withdrawals of £200 for three  days, then a further 
two withdrawals of £200 and £693 just five days after the credit.
Having looked  at about six months  of Mr Cs bank statements,  this looks  like unusual  
activity. Mr C does on occasion  withdraw  amounts of £200 but only about  once  or twice a 
month and not four times within five days.
I have considered RateSetters  argument that Mr C has benefitted from the funds because  
Mr C could have participated with his son in defrauding RateSetter. I agree this is a 
possibility but on the balance of probabilities  I think this is unlikely based on Mr Cs 
testimony. 
Ive seen no benefit to Mr C of what happened. I am sure this has all had a devastating 
impact on Mr and Mrs Cs relationship with their son.
Overall and on balance  I believe Mr C didnt  apply for this loan. As RateSetter has no 
contractual agreement  with him and I cant see that Mr C benefitted  from the funds, they 
cant ask him to repay the money  or lodge any data about this agreement on Mr Cs credit 
record. They  are of course free to take whatever action they feel is appropriate towards 
Mr Cs son who I believe did apply for the loan and use the money.
Ref: DRN13268043my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Retail Money Market Limited, 
trading as RateSetter, to:
Stop pursuing Mr C for repayment of a loan as he didnt apply for it; and
Remove any markers on his credit  record relating to this loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020. 
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1326804