K821x#15complaint
Miss B has complained  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont pay in full for
the costs to repair exterior doors to her property as she wants  to use the original supplier.
Miss B made a claim under her and Mr Ss joint home insurance  policy.
background
In January 2019 Miss B accidentally reversed her car into exterior sliding  doors causing
damage. She reported the incident  to her insurer, RSA. At the same time she contacted the
original supplier of the doors for an estimate. She said there are nine years remaining out of
a ten year warranty.
RSA asked Miss B to provide a quote  for the repairs, which  she did. RSA passed the quote
to its supplier. They gave a quote  for £600 less to carry  out the repairs.
In February 2019  RSA said in line with the policy  it would use its own supplier to carry out
the repairs. But Miss B was unhappy with this. The original supplier of the doors said if
Miss B didnt use them to carry  out repairs, the warranty would be invalidated - not just for
the area repaired, but for the entire sliding doors. Miss B felt a like for like replacement
should mean that her warranty shouldnt be invalidated. In March 2019 Miss B complained.
RSA said as an alternative, it would pay Miss B a cash settlement  for the price  its supplier
would have charged, minus the excess under the policy. In April 2019 it accepted it caused a
delay in dealing  with Miss Bs complaint. For this it paid Miss B £50 compensation.
Miss B asked us to look at her complaint. She said the original supplier has assured her the
doors and glass has been  secured. But she says the damage is visible from the road.  Shes
concerned this makes  their property vulnerable.
To put things right, she wanted RSA to meet the costs  to repair  the doors without her
warranty being invalidated. She said this happened  at an already stressful  time for Miss B
and Mr S.
Our investigator thought RSA had acted  in line with the policy.  When  dealing  with a claim,
the policy doesnt provide like for like cover for existing  warranties.
Miss B didnt agree. She believes  like for like should mean everything is the same. She said
they spent extra money to ensure  the doors  were  of good quality and would extend  their life
beyond the ten year warranty.  If there  was only a year or two left on the warranty, or it was
an average window,  things might be different. But she doesnt  think  its fair that she should
lose the remaining  warranty years  if she has the work carried  out by RSAs supplier.
Miss B said she would like RSA to pay £1,000 to settle the claim.
I issued a provisional decision dated 8 June 2020  and thought the complaint should be 
upheld. 
Both parties  have accepted my provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ref: DRN13870982Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My final decision is along the same  lines 
as my provisional decision as both parties  have accepted it. 
Miss Bs policy with RSA says it will deal with claims as follows:
The insurer can choose to replace, repair or reinstate the lost or damaged property.
If you request a cash settlement this will be restricted to the discounted replacement
price we would  normally  pay using our own suppliers. 
If no equivalent replacement is available, the insurer will pay the full replacement
cost of the item. 
The insurer  may appoint an approved supplier to act on their behalf to validate your
claim. The approved  supplier is authorised  to arrange a quotation, a repair  or a
replacement and, in some instances,  collect the excess. 
RSAs approved supplier  provided a quote  for £907.58 to carry out the repairs to the sliding
doors. Miss Bs original supplier of the doors quoted  £1,570.  However, the works carried out
by the approved supplier will only be guaranteed  for 12 months. And so I dont think its fair
to say that this would leave Miss B in a like for like position. Given  the number of years left
under the warranty  of the existing doors, I think this would leave Miss B worse off.
We asked RSA if it would consider  either  arranging for its provider  to give Miss B a new
warranty for the same amount of time (nine years) that is covered under the existing
warranty, or pay the amount the original  supplier quoted (minus the excess) so Miss Bs
warranty is preserved.
RSA said is policy doesnt cover intangibles such as indemnity for a warranty  contract. So if
by using their approved  repairer this means it invalidates a warranty, it wont  cover the
reinstatement of the existing warranty.
But if RSAs  approved supplier carries out the works, I dont think  it puts Miss B back in the
position she would have been in before  the incident.  So I think  a fairer outcome in this case
is for RSA to meet the costs of the original supplier (minus the excess)  to settle Miss Bs
claim and maintain the warranty.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
ask Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc to settle  Miss Bs claim by meeting the costs of the 
original supplier to repair  the exterior doors- minus  the excess.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1387098