K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited (MBFS) imposed unfair 
charges when he returned a car.
background
Mr S acquired a car in 2013 funded  by a hire purchase agreement  with MBFS. The car was 
returned in 2017 and MBFS charged him for damage and excess mileage. The car had been 
left at a dealership and it was collected several weeks  later and then subjected to an 
examination. Mr S said he wasnt responsible for any damage to the car after it left his care 
and he disputed the alleged damage.
MBFS accepted some  of the damage  may have occurred after he had left the car and 
reduced the charge by £1,514.47. Mr S challenged the excess  mileage  charge and it was 
agreed to reduce this by £48. The final sum sought by MBFS was £1,842.15 and Mr S 
offered £1,650.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He noted the car had been left at the dealership and hadnt been  inspected for 
several weeks, but he thought that the damage to the seats and to the wheels was done 
before Mr S handed  it over.  He also thought it fell outside the British Vehicle  Rental  and 
Leasing Association  (BVRLA) guidelines on fair wear and tear.
Mr S didnt agree and said there  was no evidence  that the damage had occurred while  the 
car was in his possession  and so he should be held liable for those costs.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr S was given  two options  for returning the car; it could either  be collected from 
his home  or from the dealership. He wasnt told the latter option  may result in the inspection  
being carried out later and without  him present. He chose the latter  and it is unfortunate that 
he wasnt able to witness the inspection. However,  that of itself doesnt mean that MBFS 
isnt allowed to charge for damage.
Having looked  at the photographs taken by the inspector the car is in a poor state and I find 
it hard to believe that the damage was all incurred  after it was left at the dealership.  I suspect 
most if not all of it was incurred while in Mr Ss possession. However MBFS has agreed to 
waive the charges  for external damage apart from the wheels and for the stains  on the 
seats. 
The damage on the seats and the wheels looks like it has been  there  for some time and it 
seems unlikely that the dealership would  have caused staining  to the seats  or scuffed all the 
wheels in the short time it held the car pending  the inspection.  I cannot  say with any certainty 
that MBFS was wrong to charge  for this and I have to consider what  I believe  to be fair and 
reasonable. Therefore, on balance I think Mr S is liable for the damage to the wheels and 
seats As such I consider that MBFS is entitled  to charge Mr S £1,842.15.
Ref: DRN19231112my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
15 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1923111