K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to terminate his 
claim under his employers group income protection insurance policy.
background
Mr M was a member of his employers group income protection  insurance  policy, held with 
Aviva. The policy would  pay benefit,  after a waiting period of 26 weeks,  if Mr M were unable  
to perform his normal occupation  and any other occupation to which  he was suited due to 
illness or injury.
In 2015, Mr M stopped  working due to pain in his arm. He made  a claim under the policy. 
Aviva accepted this and began to pay benefit.
In 2017, Aviva reviewed  the claim and concluded that Mr M was no longer prevented from 
performing an occupation  to which  he was suited. It therefore said it was terminating the 
claim from the end of November 2017.
Mr M appealed against Avivas decision.  It therefore  arranged for him to undergo  an 
independent medical examination by Dr M, a consultant in occupational  medicine. Dr M 
concluded that Mr M was incapacitated from performing his normal occupation but could 
return to work in some of the suited occupations  suggested by Aviva.  On this basis, Aviva  
maintained its decision  to terminate the claim.
Mr M was unhappy at Avivas decision and referred his complaint to us. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy  states  that benefit will be paid if the insured person is prevented  by illness  or 
injury from performing the duties of their normal  occupation and any other occupations for 
which they are suited by reason of education, training or experience.  
Dr Ms report concluded that Mr M was unfit to return to his normal occupation on even a 
part-time basis,  and was unlikely to ever be able to return to this role.
Dr Ms report, however, also concluded that Mr M was fit to return to work in four of the five 
suited occupations  suggested by Aviva. Mr M hasnt  provided any medical evidence  to 
counter Dr Ms opinion.  I therefore  see no grounds  for disputing that Mr M would be 
medically able to perform  the occupations in question.
The only issue for me to determine is therefore whether Mr M is indeed  suited to these 
occupations.
Mr M was employed as a vehicle recovery driver. As I understand it, his job essentially 
entailed him driving  to a broken down vehicle, picking it up, and taking it to wherever it 
needed to go.
Mr M had been performing that occupation for over ten years. Before that, his career history  
as outlined to Dr M was that he left school at 15 and worked as a drivers mate in a van. He 
then did labouring and scaffolding. He worked  as a guard  on a train for less than two years. 
Ref: DRN17938962He then worked as a windscreen fitter. He then obtained his HGV licence and worked as a 
delivery driver for a year before joining his current  employer.
Mr M, who is now in his 60s, has therefore  largely  spent his working  life in routine manual 
occupations, often  involving  driving,  plus a spell of unknown  duration as a windscreen fitter 
and a brief stint as a train guard.
Aviva identified five occupations which it thought Mr M was capable of performing and to 
which it believed he was suited. These  were as follows:  administrator at a car dealership,  
sales outlet or service garage; administrative role for a vehicle maintenance/repair company; 
administrative role for a car rental  company; retail  sales  adviser  for a car maintenance outlet; 
and light goods  delivery driver.
I dont think it is reasonable to say that Mr M was suited  by way of education,  training or 
experience to either an administrative or sales role. He hadnt previously worked  in such  an 
occupation and his relevant skills seem minimal. Aviva has sought  to justify Mr Ms suitability 
for these  roles by citing elements within Mr Ms job profile such as the requirements to [be] 
a logical thinker with proven problem solving skills and to have the ability  to communicate 
professionally and effectively with customers and colleagues in a face-to-face situation and 
via the telephone. However, I think it is unreasonable to take basic  personal  qualities such  
as these, which might be found in almost any job profile and which are largely incidental to 
Mr Ms core role, and use them to argue that Mr M is therefore suited to work in a totally  
different type of occupation.
I therefore consider  that four of the five occupations suggested by Aviva were  unsuitable  for 
Mr M. I consider that the role of a light goods delivery driver was one to which he was suited 
by way of his training and experience. However, Dr M concluded that Mr M was unlikely to 
be able to perform this occupation  due to his symptoms.
Given that Aviva hasnt shown that Mr M was able to return to work in an occupation to 
which he was suited,  I think it was wrong for it to terminate his claim. I therefore think it 
should reinstate  his claim and pay him the backdated benefit he is owed,  plus interest.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision.
Aviva didnt accept my provisional decision.  It highlighted  further requirements in Mr Ms job 
profile such as in depth knowledge of breakdown  products/systems and procedures and 
the ability to operate  all modern equipment including computerized equipment . It 
believed these requirements showed he had transferable  skills which  made him capable of 
performing the roles  in question. It said Dr M, a consultant occupational physician,  had 
advised that Mr M could  work in these roles.  It referred to a case study on our website where 
it was deemed that a painter and decorator who developed an injury which prevented him 
from carrying on in that role was nonetheless suited to working in a DIY outlet where  he 
could use his painting  and decorating expertise  to advise customers.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
change my provisional decision.  I shall explain  why.
Ref: DRN17938963I think Aviva  is placing  too much weight on certain elements which appear in Mr Ms job 
profile. To clarify, Mr M isnt a mechanic  and, to the best of my knowledge, has no particular 
knowledge of the workings  of vehicles. He may have required an in-depth knowledge of the 
breakdown products which  he used when recovering  vehicles,  and also of the processes he 
had to follow, but I dont see that this has much relevance to the alternative roles  which  
Aviva says Mr M can perform.
With regard to the ability to operate computerized  equipment, Mr M has explained that this 
was limited to using a touch screen to read and acknowledge the incoming  job details. He 
says he didnt have  to type anything. I think it is stretching matters to suggest that this limited 
experience means  he is suited by way of skills and experience to an office-based 
administrative role which is likely to be centred on the use of a computer.  
I acknowledge that Mr Ms job profile  said other things about  needing  to communicate 
professionally and having problem-solving skills but I have already explained that I think  
these basic personal  qualities  were incidental to Mr Ms core role and it would be wrong to 
seize on these to argue that he was therefore suited to work  in a totally  different type of 
occupation to anything which hed done previously in his career.
Dr M had said that, apart from that of a delivery  driver, Mr M was physically capable of 
performing the alternative roles put forward by Aviva. However,  Dr Ms report  appears  to 
assess only whether Mr M was physically capable of performing those roles; I cant  see that 
he expressed any opinion  as to whether Mr M was suited to them.
Aviva has pointed to a case study on our website. I have taken this into account. However, 
each complaint is judged on its own merits. In this particular case, I remain  of the opinion  
that Aviva  has applied the definition of suited occupation too broadly. I dont think it is fair to 
say that Mr M, who has largely  spent  his working  life in routine, manual occupations, is 
suited by way of education, training or experience to an administrative or sales  role.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to reinstate  Mr Ms claim and pay benefit  from the 
time of the claims termination to date. It should add interest to these benefit payments at the 
annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date each payment was due to the date of 
settlement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019..
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1793896