K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2007.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ds credit card account when she applied for the card online. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ds case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint because:
 I think the bank  made  Mrs D aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to 
take it.
 Mrs D bought the PPI online,  and the bank didnt recommend the PPI to her, so it didnt 
have to check if it was suitable  for her.  But Ive thought about what  shes  said about  
her work benefits and other insurance.  Mrs Ds other insurance was intended  to help 
with her mortgage if she couldnt work,  so that and her work benefits  dont make the 
PPI unsuitable.  
 Its possible the information the bank  gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Mrs D chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover.  She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mrs D would have made a different decision if better information  had been  provided. 
On balance I think she would  still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  30 June 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1289558