K820x#14complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Tesco Personal  Finance Plc processed the refund of her credit  
balance as a money  transfer.
backgroundIn August  2016,  Ms S applied for a balance transfer of £1233.00 onto her Tesco  credit card
account, using  a promotional 0% interest offer. As her credit card account was in credit by
£45.30, she asked for this to be refunded at the same time.  Tesco  processed both the
balance transfer  (BT) and refund of the credit balance on the same  day. Tesco  refunded
the credit  balance into Ms Ss current account and processed this as a money transfer
(MT) on the credit  card account.
In October  2017, the promotional 0% interest  period ended and the balance on Ms Ss card
began accruing interest, including  the MT amount.
Ms S complained to Tesco, saying she didnt think it was fair for them to process the credit
balance refund as a MT and she felt she was being made  to pay back money that she was
entitled to. So, she was unhappy that interest  was being charged on that amount.
Tesco responded upholding the complaint.  They refunded  the interest charged on the MT
and credited the account £75.00 to acknowledge the confusion that they thought  theyd
caused Ms S. But, they explained  they thought Ms S had benefited  from the situation as
shed been charged a better rate of interest. Ms S was unhappy with this response so she
referred her complaint  to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He thought  Ms S hadnt  received
the benefit of the refund  because it was debited back onto her credit card account as a MT.
So, he said Tesco should refund the payments  that had been allocated  to the MT and waive
any remaining MT amount  that was outstanding. He also said Tesco  should  apply 8%
interest to the refund to account for the time Ms S had been  without the money. As Tesco 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 January 2020, where I explained  my intention  not to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself disagreeing
with the investigator  and I dont think the complaint should be upheld.  Ill explain why.
First, I want to stress that I can understand why Ms S felt she had cause to complain as the
way the MT and BT were noted on the monthly statements was confusing to follow. While it
wouldnt be fair for me to decide  that refunding the credit balance  as a MT was unreasonable
as Tesco  are entitled to set their own processes, this did mean a debit was applied  to the
account. So, it did make  it seem as though Ms S was charged  again for the credit balance
she was entitled  to request.
But, after reviewing the statements at length,  I dont  think  Ms S was. On the statement
produced on 8 September 2016, it documents the BT, MT and BT fee. Together, these three
amounts total £1,315.17. The statement also includes the minimum payment Ms S made of
£25.00. After these  have  been processed and the £25.00  payment  credited, it leaves a new
Ref: DRN13381922outstanding balance of £1,244.87. So, I think this shows the MT had been  offset against the
BT.
If the MT hadnt been included  as part of the BT, the outstanding balance  of the account
wouldve been £1,290.17. Because of this, Im satisfied that Ms S did in fact receive the
refund of the £45.30  and wasnt paying  it off the account again.
Ive also seen the account began  accruing  interest in October 2017, which showed on
November 2017s  statement. As the MT was shown on the statement separately,  the MT
amount accrued interest  separately at a lower  rate than the BT amount. This is despite the
MT amount being included as part of the BT. So, I think  Ms S financially benefited by
Tescos decision to list the MT separately.
So, while I think the way Tesco  presented  the MT and BT amounts on the statement was
confusing for Ms S, I dont think this has negatively  affected her financially. Ive seen Tesco
have credit Ms Ss account by £75.00 to acknowledge the confusion she experienced, and
theyve also altered the statements to include the MT amount as part of the BT to make  the
statements clearer moving  forwards. They also refunded  Ms S the interest that had been
charged on the MT amount up until their complaint response.
I think the actions  Tesco  took were fair and in line with any offer I would have directed in the
circumstances so for this reason, I dont think they need to take any further action.  I
understand this isnt the outcome Ms S wanted but I hope my findings help explain how the
confusion arose and provid  re-assurance that she did in fact receive the refund she asked 
for and hasnt been financially disadvantaged by Tescos actions.
responsesTesco didnt  respond to the provisional decision so didnt provide any further comments.  
Ms S spoke to our investigator and provided her comments  verbally.  Ms S said she didnt 
understand the provisional decision and thought it was incorrect. She said she thought the 
compensation offered by Tesco wasnt enough  for how long the problem had been  ongoing  
and didnt take into account  that if she hadnt noticed the problem, Tesco  wouldve still been  
charging her interest incorrectly. She reiterated  her belief that shed paid Tesco more back  
than shed received  in compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.
I understand why Ms S remains confused about  how the refund was processed. I attempted 
to explain this as clearly as I could  in my provisional decision, and I acknowledged  this 
impact on Ms S. But Im still satisfied that Ms S did receive a refund of the £45.30.  This was 
debited to her current account and then included on her Tesco  credit  card statement as an 
MT. At first glance  of the statements, it looks as though this is then accruing interest and 
Ms S is having to pay it back. But crucially, the MT is included  as part of the BT amount even  
though its reported separately on the statements. And the MT amount  is accruing interest  at 
a lesser rate than the BT. So, I think Ms S has benefitted by paying less interest on the MT 
amount that if itd been reported  as part of the BT. 
Ref: DRN13381923If Ms S hadnt noticed the MT on her statement, she would have continued to benefit from 
the lesser interest  being charged  on the MT. So, I dont  agree that the complaint she raised  
prevented her from losing  out further  financially. But again, I do appreciate  that the way in 
which the statements  reported the MT were confusing.
I also understand why this confusion led to Ms S believing shes paid back more interest 
than the compensation she received. But this isnt the case. The interest Ms S paid has been 
less or exactly what she wouldve been  paying  had the refund been  reported differently and 
kept separate to the BT she made at the same time. 
Tesco have  offered £75.00 compensation plus a refund of the interest she paid on the MT to 
recognise the trouble and upset caused by the confusion  generated when  reporting  the 
refund on her monthly  statements. I think this is a reasonable offer and I dont think  they 
need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint about Tesco Personal 
Finance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1338192