K820x#14complaint
Mrs W and Mr D (the complainants) say problems with the trading platform used in their 
account with ICM Capital  Limited (ICM) caused a financial loss.
background
The account  was opened in November 2017  and the complainants  say the trading platform 
was initially without problems. However  they say they soon experienced the following 
problems between December 2017  and February 2018:
Between December  2017 and January 2018 their connection to the platform  was 
broken several  times, which disrupted  management of their trades.
They were part of a collective of around  40 traders  who had ICM accounts and all 
used the trading platforms copy  trade  facility. This facility meant that trades 
(including hedging trades) made  in a master account within  the collective were 
automatically replicated in all of the other  accounts, in proportion  to the equity in 
those accounts.  Initially this facility worked, then it stopped working  and problems 
were caused to trades in the subordinate accounts  including theirs  which were 
supposed to follow  the master account but did not.
ICM unreasonably increased the spread in a trade by 60 pips in December 2017 and 
adversely affected some  of the accounts in the collective. ICM thereafter rectified this 
problem. However, on 6 February 2018  a similar  occurrence resulted in an increase 
of the spread by 30 pips, led to closure of relevant  positions in the trade and caused 
severe losses.
ICM disputes the complaint. It says there  is evidence of an audit report  on trading activity  in 
the complainants account  which it shared with this service   showing that their trades did 
not encounter  any rejections or time outs during the relevant period. As such, it says, even if 
there were small connection issues they did not cause the complainants a financial loss or 
restrict their trading. It says there  is no evidence of the copy  trade facility not working.  It 
highlights the complainants concession  that the matter related to the 60 pips spread 
increase was resolved and it says the assertion that a 30 pips spread increase on 6 
February 2018 led to closure of their positions  is inaccurate. It refers to evidence of the 
relevant closures  showing that they were  not done  by ICM or the platform but that they 
happened because  they were ordered by the complainants.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and concluded that it should not be upheld  
 for broadly  the same  reasons as those given by ICM. He also noted that the platform was 
provided by a third party entity so there would be an additional requirement  to show,  within 
the complaint,  that ICM can be held responsible for any technical problems with it. He said 
such responsibility had not been  established.  
The complainants  disagreed with this outcome. They considered that the adjudicator should 
look into events within the master account of the collective and compare the findings  from 
that with what happened  in their account. They said this would show that the copy  trade  
facility was faulty. They conceded that they did not know how to prove the alleged  broken 
platform connections but suggested that the adjudicator should check  ICMs  live server for 
evidence. With regards  to the alleged event  of 6 February the complaints appear to say it 
was a consequence of the copy trade  failure, as they had to hedge  their positions manually.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN17092612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold the 
complaint.
The alleged broken platform connections  and failed copy  trade  facility  both relate  to the 
functioning of the trading platform used by the complainants.
In terms of alleged  trading  losses directly caused  by the alleged  broken connections, 
account activity  evidence supports ICMs position. There does not appear  to be record of the 
complainants trades or orders being  rejected or timed out during the relevant  period, so the 
implication is that any alleged broken platform connections did not directly  result in either 
consequence.
However, I have noted that the complainants say their management  of trades  was affected 
by the alleged broken platform connections. In this case, the absence  of rejected or timed 
out trades is arguably  less relevant. The argument being that if any of the alleged broken 
connections happened as described  it/they  could have affected measures short of opening 
or closing  a trade that the complainants might have wanted to take to manage a trade  (or 
trades). 
Having said the above, the lack of evidence of such broken connections remains  a hurdle 
that the complainants have not been able to overcome. It is not within  our remit to conduct a 
technical and/or forensic investigation into ICMs  server  as has been  suggested.  Short of 
this, the complainants  expressly concede that they do not know how to prove this allegation. 
Furthermore, and quite importantly, there is evidence of a particular provision in the terms 
and conditions for the account which has the effect of excluding  ICMs liability  for system 
failures (including within the trading  platform)  and for any losses  to clients arising  from such 
failures. In this context  and even if there  was evidence  of the alleged broken connections, 
there appears to be a contractual  basis upon  which ICM would bear no responsibility for 
them. The same applies to the copy trade  facility  within the platform. Even if its failure is 
established  which has not been the case,  given the lack of evidence showing  such  failure 
 ICMs contractual  exclusion  of liability would remain relevant.
Both parties  appear to agree that the matter related to the 60 pips spread increase has been 
adequately resolved, so I do not address it further.  The allegation related to 6 February is 
that a spread increase  (by 30 pips) led the platform to close the complainants positions  that 
day. This does not appear to be accurate, as available  evidence is that that the positions 
were not automatically  closed out. If, as it appears,  the complainants  say that the alleged 
copy trade failure forced  them to take manual measures which then forced  them to hedge  or 
close positions at a loss in this respect,  I am not persuaded that ICMs responsibility is 
implicit in such  a submission. The account was based on an execution only service so the 
complainants were responsible for their own trading decisions   including any decisions to 
hedge or close positions.
Ref: DRN17092613my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mrs Ws and Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr D to accept or reject  
my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1709261