K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited trading as Very (Very) have made 
a number of mistakes in administering payments to her account. 
background
Mrs O brought her complaint to us as she was unhappy with the response  from Very to her 
concerns. Shes concerned Very havent correctly applied various payments she made to 
her account,  took an incorrect  amount in a variable direct debit payment and removed some 
options from her account. Shes assisted in bringing her complaint to this service  by her 
husband, Mr O.
Initially Very didnt uphold  Mrs Os complaint. In respect of Buy Now Pay Later  (BNPL) 
interest, in their Final  Response Letter  (FRL), they detailed two transactions  in 2018 where 
the payment required to settle the cash price of the BNPL item was received on time but not 
in the methods set out in their terms. And Very said this resulted in BNPL  interest being 
allocated to Mrs Os account.  Very told Mrs O the account terms and conditions detailed  how 
she could avoid paying interest  on a BNPL order by paying the full cash  price  by the end of 
the payment free period. Very said those  terms and conditions  were available  to view online 
and had been available prior to and during the account application process.  And although 
they were satisfied the BNPL interest had been applied correctly,  as a gesture of goodwill 
theyd refunded interest charges of £385.51.  And they gave further  information  to Mrs O as 
to how she could check future payments to settle  BNPL items were  correctly allocated at the 
time of payment.
During our investigation Verys view on the treatment of the BNPL  items remained the same 
but they told us as a gesture of good will a total of £385.51 in BNPL deferred interest has 
been credited  to the account  when Mrs O originally called them in 2018. And as part of the 
refund process  theyd  also paid an over credit of £176.41 in error. But Very said due to one 
of their advisers not amending Mrs Os variable  direct  debit  it took an over payment of 
£54.54. Mrs O claimed back the full amount of the variable  direct debit taken via indemnity at 
her bank which resulted  in no payment  being received by Very who then removed some  
functions on her account and account  interest started. Very offered  to leave the over credit of 
£176.41 on Mrs Os account as compensation for the incorrect  action regarding the variable 
direct debit amendment.
In both the views issued our investigator  partially  upheld this complaint. Her rationale  in both 
views was the same. In both she didnt uphold the complaint about the BNPL  interest as she 
thought Very had applied  interest in line with the terms and conditions. But in the first view 
she recommended  £100  compensation rather than putting Verys offer to retain overpaid 
credit of £176.41 as compensation for the mistake with the variable direct debit to Mrs O. In 
the second view the investigator found  the offer of made by Very to be a reasonable 
response to the failing.   
Mrs O rejected the offer and didnt agree with the views. She said we hadnt understood the 
level of inconvenience  and upset Very had caused  her over a protracted period. She told us 
she thought given the information shed provided she was totally  entitled to receive the 
BNPL interest back. She said the refund from Very couldnt be considered as goodwill as 
shed paid all accounts based on the BNPL scheme on time,  for the right amount and via an 
option outlined  in the billing process. And Very accepted those payments which  she thought  
was an acknowledgement by them that shed made the payments in an acceptable manner.
Ref: DRN10566082Mrs O told us there was nothing in the billing  information that said BNPL items shouldnt be 
paid by the normal banking system. And although  shed never been in doubt that it was 
possible to pay for BNPL items  on the Very website she couldnt find anything which said 
such items should always be paid by this method. Mrs O also thought  she was entitled  to 
demand Very to go back five years  in her records to address  the situation where she might 
be entitled to more returns of interest.
On 6 December  2019 Very wrote  to this service  and said having reviewed the matter further 
they were happy  that the BNPL  interest was correctly applied but taking Mrs Os case  in 
isolation they believed  some of the payments made  were intended to settle the BNPL  cash  
prices before  maturity  date. They said due to this a decision had been made to refund BNPL  
deferred interest on this occasion of £173.61  purely as a gesture of goodwill. This offer was 
rejected by Mrs O who indicated she would settle if a further  £100  compensation  was paid. 
Very have recently confirmed to us that this email was simply a reiteration of the offer made  
earlier in the investigation to retain the over credited sum of £176.41. An error in the letter  
referred to a different amount of £173.61  but this wasnt a new offer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  that Mrs O feels the 
investigation has lacked  depth and details  and fails to address the issues.  And I note she 
fears that anyone  else looking  at this matter will wish to protect  the investigators initial 
position. I want to assure Mrs O Ive looked at everything afresh  before reaching  an 
independent view. Having done so Ive come to the view that there are some  elements of 
this complaint which I should uphold and some I should not. Ill explain why I think this.
Its clear that Mrs O has strong feelings about  this complaint. Shes has provided detailed  
submissions in support  of her view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mrs O will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised, but to set out 
my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them. I think  the central issues here are how the 
BNPL items have been dealt with and the impact of Verys mistake with the variable direct 
debit.
bnpl
I understand Mrs Os unhappy  that the investigators relied on the terms and conditions here 
to judge her complaint. She thinks  thats a contradiction in terms when shed been told this 
service cannot interfere by advising a company what their terms and conditions should  be. 
But Im afraid I dont agree. Its our role, as an independent dispute resolution  service, to 
investigate and decide if the business  has done  anything wrong  and if so, put the consumer 
back in the position they would have been  if the mistake hadnt been made. In doing  this the 
starting point is to look at the agreement between the parties and here thats governed by 
those terms.
I dont doubt Mrs O intended, when making payments via her husbands bank and putting  
the reference BNPL on those, to pay off the BNPL items. And that she genuinely believed  
that was sufficient to allow  the payment to be identified and allocated. The problem is that 
thats not one of the ways  set out in the terms and conditions. They say
Ref: DRN10566083To make  the most of our BNPL offers, it is important that you understand how and when we 
charge and calculate interest on themif you dont want to pay interest  on either offer,  you 
must pay the full price  of the relevant  transaction and notify  us that you are making payment 
specifically on your BNPL transaction.  You can do this by targeting a payment online through 
My Account  or contacting  us on 0800 092 3355*. The payment must clear the BNPL  
transaction in full by the due date shown on your statement If you are not sure how buy 
now pay later offers  work  please  call us on the above number
The payments for the BNPL items highlighted were paid by the correct date. But they werent 
paid by the methods set out in the terms and conditions.  And that genuine mistake or 
misunderstanding on Mrs Os part is whats caused the problem  here.
Very have identified  a number of occasions  where  they think payments appear to have been 
made to settle  the BNPL item. But as they werent  done in the way prescribed in the terms 
and conditions  by payment on the Very website via my account or by phoning  they 
werent allocated  and the BNPL  item attracted interest. Very refunded  the interest for those 
items, totalling £385.51, as a gesture of goodwill. And I think  thats  reasonable. 
I cant agree  with Mrs O when she says shes entitled to a refund of the interest charged on 
the BNPL items. The mistake was hers, so I think any refund given here is at the discretion 
of Very. Its Mrs Os responsibility to ensure her payments  are in line with the terms. And, if 
she was unsure in any way, to contact customer services as the terms suggested she did if 
uncertain and also stressed the importance  of understanding how Very charged and 
calculated interest on theses items to avoid paying it. But I cant  see that she did that. Its 
also Mrs Os responsibility to manage the account and satisfy herself that the interest 
charged is correct. It appears to me Mrs O had been making payments in this way for some  
time. Shes told us she thinks she might  be due refunds of further interest and says shes  
entitled to ask Very to go back in their records for five years to credit  her with interest for 
BNPL items charged due to her method of payment. But, as Very have acted in line with the 
terms in charging interest, I dont  think they have to do this or agree its something Mrs O is 
entitled to. I think the suggestion from Very of Mrs O making a SAR request is a reasonable 
one in the circumstances. 
variable direct debit
Very accept they made a mistake in the collection of the variable direct debit in October 
2018, it should have been manually adjusted to a lower amount by the adviser but wasnt. 
Theyve offered  compensation for this mistake  in the sum of £176.41 which I consider to be 
reasonable here. Its in the region of the award  Id have made had it not been  offered and is 
the amount of money credited in error on statement number 313 which  Very now wont  
recoup. And although Ive noted Mrs Os concerns that this amount of over credit hasnt 
been verified with her I think its clear from the information  before me and the movements on 
her statements that this was an over credit.
Overall I have sympathy for the position Mrs O finds herself in and I can understand why 
shes brought her complaint to this service. Some of the information she received from Very 
has been contradictory. The FRL from Very told her on one hand  the two payments detailed 
for the BNPL items  were received in full but not allocated correctly. But on the other they 
said BNPL interest was applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions. Very also 
didnt initially  uphold  the complaint or accept their mistake in respect  of the variable  direct  
debit until the matter was investigated  by this service. Given  how strongly  Mrs O feels  about 
Ref: DRN10566084what happened she may want to pursue the matter further through  other  routes. But my 
decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with Very informally  
can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints  Mrs O.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint. Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited trading  as Very should allow Mrs O to retain the £176.41 of over credited interest.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1056608