K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken  out in 1996 
and 1998. Mr and Mrs S say Skipton Building Society mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say they have no recollection of discussing  PPI when they took out their 
mortgages. Skipton  has provided the mortgage application form and mortgage offer for both 
sales. In the mortgage offer from 1996,  it explains that due to the type of mortgage Mr and 
Mrs S selected, they had to take out one of three insurance products with Skipton. These 
included: house  and contents insurance, building insurance or PPI. Looking  at the 
application form, I can see Mr and Mrs S selected  PPI. I think  it was clear they had a choice 
of products and that they didnt have to take the PPI if they didnt want  it, as they couldve 
selected one of two other  products instead. The mortgage offer stated they had to keep the 
PPI policy  until May 1998. 
In September  1998, Mr and Mrs S applied for a new mortgage as their previous 2-year  fixed 
rate had come to an end. In the application  form they were given the option of taking or 
declining the PPI. On the form is a hand written note saying they already had PPI with their 
existing mortgage.  They selected for the new policy to cover  Mr S only, as they did with the 
first policy,  and for the monthly benefit to cover the whole monthly mortgage repayment.  
Looking at this, I think  Skipton  made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out PPI 
and that they chose  to take it out.  
Shortly after this, Mr and Mrs S wrote a letter to Skipton  to cancel the PPI policy.  In the letter 
they explained that as the period in which they had to maintain the policy had come to an 
end, they felt they no longer needed the PPI. The policy was then cancelled in November 
1998 after Mr and Mrs S paid one premium.  So I think  Mr and Mrs S were aware that they 
could cancel their policy  at any time after April 1998.
Skipton recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
Mr S  and based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Skipton gave Mr and Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
This means  Skipton doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
Ref: DRN12600202But Skipton  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI on the 1998 mortgage to Mr and Mrs S 
because: 
Skipton got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Skipton didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Skipton has basically  offered  to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Skipton has to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit  share it got on the 1998 
mortgage that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. Skipton should also pay back  to Mr 
and Mrs S any extra interest they paid because of that.
Skipton should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs S the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Skipton should 
also pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Skipton Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Skipton  Building  Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  and 
profit share it got on the 1998 mortgage that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1260020