K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that he was unable to access  his credit card account online with 
Creation Financial Services Limited. 
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 10 May 2019. A copy  of this is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. In it I explained why I thought  this complaint should be 
upheld and what Creation needed  to do to put things right.
Both parties  have responded  to my provisional  decision. Mr L has said that he feels my 
provisional decision is fair and he doesnt have any further points hed like me to consider. 
Creation also said they didnt  have  any additional comments or information to provide at this 
time. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Neither party have  given me any new information.  So I see no reason for me to reach a 
different decision to the one I reached  in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right,  I require 
Creation Financial Services Limited to pay Mr L £100 compensation for the inconvenience  
and upset caused by the poor service  he received  from them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18448372copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr L complains  that he was unable to access his credit card account online with 
Creation Financial Services Limited. 
background
Mr L was unable to access the Online Account Manager (OAM) for his credit card account with 
Creation. He contacted them and asked for advice. Hes explained  they made  two suggestions of 
things he could try on his computer,  but neither of them worked.
Mr L complained  to Creation  on 5 June 2018. He said hed wasted a lot of time and money  trying to 
access his account for a number  of weeks.
Creation said they had reviewed  his account,  but their I.T Department had confirmed that there hadnt  
been any major incidents  which would  have  prevented him from accessing it at the time he was 
having difficulties. They suggested instead that there might be compatibility issues with the browser  
Mr L was using on his device to try and access the account, and provided  him with some guidelines  
and suggestions as to what the problem might be and how he could resolve it.
Mr L is now able to access  the account using  the same devices he was trying to use when  he couldnt 
log in. So he thinks Creation  must be responsible  for the problems he had. He says hes largely 
stopped using  this credit card as a result, so hes missing out on earning  points and benefits. Hes 
also unhappy  with the way Creation handled his complaint.
Our investigator didnt feel that Creation had done anything wrong.  But Mr L disagrees. He says that 
their contact centre staff told him they were having  IT problems. So the case  has been passed  to me 
to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I know Creation will be disappointed, but I think  it would be 
reasonable for them to pay Mr L £100  compensation for the inconvenience he experienced here. Ill 
explain why. 
I can see Mr L contacted Creation numerous times in May and June 2018 advising  he was having 
difficulty logging into his OAM. Creation  suggested a number of fixes he could try, but nothing  worked 
for anything  more than a temporary  period. 
Creation say that they didnt experience any major  I.T. issues during this time.  So they dont think they 
are responsible for Mr Ls problems. But Mr L says he was told by their staff that other customers  
were having  problems  too.  
Creation have now provided us with recordings  of the telephone  calls Mr L made  to them  in June 
2018. Ive listened to these,  and I can hear that one of their advisors did tell him that whilst plenty of 
customers were  able to log on, some had reported problems with the system being  slow,  or down for 
maintenance. They  also told him that their I.T. team had said it was under  maintenance, and that they 
were working on it but couldnt provide timescales. 
Although this may not have been  a significant enough  problem for Creation  to have considered it a 
major I.T. issue, this evidence  does suggest that Creation were experiencing  some I.T. troubles. 
Ref: DRN18448373On the second call recording,  Mr L told them  the message he was receiving  referred to an internal 
server error.  And when the advisor on this call tried to log into Mr Ls account themselves on their own 
device, they found that the server wasnt being directed to the right place to take them  through to his 
account. They  said they would need to speak to their I.T. team to find out why this was happening. 
But the problem was temporarily resolved when  they deleted and recreated his account.  Mr L was 
then able to log in using  the same browser he had previously. And although  I understand this only 
worked temporarily, this gives me the impression his problems werent all attributable solely  to his 
devices, settings, or internet browsers as Creation have suggested. 
Mr L is upset  with the service he received  from Creation when he reported his problems to them. And 
I do agree this fell below the standard he should expect. Whilst Creation  did provide some 
suggestions of possible  solutions he could try, I cant see any evidence that they tried to establish 
what specific  problems  he was actually having until a phone  call on 12 June 2018 when they went 
through the log in process with him. 
I can understand why this would  have  been  frustrating  for Mr L. Hes disappointed that his problem 
hadnt been referred on to anyone to look at sooner. By this point hed already told Creation on earlier  
telephone calls that he was having problems  and it doesnt appear these were  followed up. I can also 
hear it was agreed  on the phone call of  5 June  2018  that someone  would call him back  about  his 
complaint, but I havent  seen any evidence  that this happened.
Whilst I cant be certain that there  werent  problems  with Mr Ls devices or internet browser that might 
have contributed to his difficulties logging  into the account, Ive outlined why I think there is evidence 
that Creation should take some responsibility  for his problems. I accept that there will be times when 
online systems  need maintenance, or may stop working for a period. But Mr L experienced difficulties 
for a prolonged period  of time. And it was clearly frustrating that Creation didnt  take greater steps to 
try and help him sooner. Or call him back when they said they would. So I think it would  be fair for 
them to pay him £100 compensation  to recognise  the poor service he received here, and the 
inconvenience this caused. 
Mr L has told us that hes largely stopped using his credit card due to the problems  he has had 
accessing his account  online. He says that as a result hes lost out on points and rewards he could 
have otherwise have earned with the card. I can hear that on a couple  of the telephone calls he had 
with Creation they provided him with information about his account balance and recent expenditure  
when he asked. So although  he couldnt access the account online  himself, Im satisfied  he could still 
obtain details about his account  albeit in a less convenient way. So whilst  I can understand why he 
chose to stop using the card,  I dont think it would  fair to say that he had to stop using it as a result of 
Creations actions.
Mr L is unhappy with Creations complaints process. As our investigator has explained, complaint 
handling isnt something this service can generally  consider.  But in looking at whats happened here, I 
havent seen anything to make me think that Creation  has treated Mr L unfairly in this respect.
Mr L has also told us that he doesnt feel Creation responded promptly to his complaint.  He first made 
it in June  2018, and, although he received  some correspondence from them in the meantime they did 
not issue  a final response letter until 15 August 2018. However I can see they let him know in a letter  
sent on 30 July 2018 that he could  bring his complaint  to our service at that point if he wished. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint. 
To put things right, I require Creation Financial Services Limited to pay Mr L £100 compensation for 
the inconvenience  and upset caused by the poor service he received from them.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1844837