K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken out in 
1998 and 2009. Mrs M says Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
The 1998  policy  covered Mrs M for accident,  sickness and unemployment.  The 2009 policy 
covered Mrs M for accident and sickness cover. The 2009  policy  also offered additional life 
and critical illness cover. My decision only considered the accident, sickness and 
unemployment elements of cover that were  sold. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
For the 1998 sale, on the mortgage application Mrs M has signed separately to apply 
for PPI next to a statement that says Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage  
Repayments Insurance. Ive also seen a copy of a separate  application  form thats 
been completed for the 1998  PPI policy and Mrs M has signed  this application to 
confirm that I wish to apply for cover under the Mortgage Repayments Insurance  
scheme.  
So Im satisfied that Mrs M was made aware that the 1998 policy  was optional and 
she chose to take it out. Its possible  that given the time thats passed that Mrs M 
may not recall everything clearly now. 
For the 2009 sale, no documentation  is available from the sale.  Whilst this is 
disappointing, its been almost 10 years since  the sale happened.  But Ive considered 
that for this sale Mrs M didnt take unemployment  insurance when there  was an 
option to. Ive also considered that as I think that it was made clear that the 1998  
policy was optional that Mrs M would reasonably have been aware that she also 
didnt have to take PPI in 2009.
Although Mrs M has said that she wasnt aware  that shed taken PPI, Ive seen a 
copy of a welcome letter sent to Mrs M dated 29 September 2009. It outlines  the 
level of cover that Mrs M has taken and how much shell be paying per month for 
PPI. So I think that she reasonably  would have been  aware that PPI had been taken 
out
On balance, I also think that its more likely than not that Mrs M was made aware that 
the 2009 PPI policy  was optional and she also chose to take it out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. Based on the nearest relevant policy documents to when each policy was sold 
and what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover based  on what shes  told us about her 
circumstances.  
Ref: DRN11719752Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including what shes  said about:
having other complaints upheld. But our Service considers each complaint on its own 
merits on a case by case basis.  Ive not seen anything to persuade  me that this 
complaint should be upheld.
her family and friends  would have helped her make her repayments.  But 
circumstances can change and although  Mrs Ms family and friends may have 
wanted to help, they may not have been  in a position to help when  needed. In 
addition, as this was a relatively  significant amount of borrowing and given the 
potential consequences  if Mrs M was unable to keep up with her repayments,  I think  
that she could  have found the PPI policies useful  if she ever was in a positon where 
she needed to claim.  
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
doesnt need to refund everything Mrs M paid for it. But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) has already offered to give Mrs M back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it 
needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) will make  arrangements to pay Mrs M now Ive 
issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1171975