K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews)  wont pay them an 
amount for VAT associated with a claim they made on their home insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs A made a successful claim  under  their home insurance.  St Andrews agreed to 
pay the estimated  cost of replacing  a conservatory damaged by subsidence  £91,453. It 
said it would  also pay any VAT that Mr and Mrs A were  charged on this amount.
Mr and Mrs A decided  to replace the conservatory with a smaller structure  and the total 
(including VAT) came to about £51,000.
St Andrews  said it wouldnt pay for the VAT element  of the new building   because to do so 
would leave Mr and Mrs A better  off than they were  before they made the claim.   
Mr and Mrs A complained, but St Andrews  didnt change its position. They brought  their 
complaint to us, saying  that as St Andrews said it would pay the VAT on top of the build 
costs, and so it should  do that even thought the build costs  were lower. They suggest St 
Andrews may have claimed  some VAT in its returns to HMRC without actually defraying any 
cost.
Two of our investigators looked  at this complaint. The first said she thought  St Andrews 
should pay the VAT, and the second  that it need  not.
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the second (current)  opinion  from our investigator,  so Ive 
been asked to decide this complaint.  This will be our final input  on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
St Andrews  responsibility  to Mr and Mrs A is to put them in the position they were in before  
they made their claim. And it offered to do that, by paying the cost of the rebuilding work.  
The rebuilding work was based on Mr and Mrs A replacing their conservatory  on a like for 
like basis. Thats how this service would normally expect an insurer to meet a claim.
St Andrews  did that by giving Mr and Mrs A a cash settlement for the value of the work. And 
it sais it would also meet the cost of any VAT Mr and Mrs A paid on top of this amount, once 
it had receipts showing  the VAT had been  paid. 
Mr and Mrs A decided  not to exactly replace the conservatory, but build something of a 
different (smaller)  size. Thats their choice, of course, but by doing so theyve moved  outside  
the limits  of their insurance policy  which is, as I said above, about replacing  like for like. St 
Andrews didnt interfere  in that decision  and I wouldnt expect it to. But as soon as Mr and 
Mrs A made that choice,  it meant  St Andrews didnt have to honour any offer it had made to 
reimburse VAT  because  it wasnt a like for like build.
Ref: DRN10030322Furthermore, the purpose of paying  the VAT was that this was an additional  cost for Mr and 
Mrs A (assuming theyd built on a like for like basis), and it isnt fair for Mr and Mrs A to meet 
that cost. But Mr and Mrs A arent out of pocket, as the eventual build costs including VAT 
are substantially less than the amount  St Andrews paid them  initially.
In summary,  Mr and Mrs A replaced the old conservatory with something that suited them  
better, and theyve  got both that and some spare  money from the settlement St Andrews 
gave them. To ask St Andrews to pay them an additional £7,700  would be unfair.
How St Andrews deals  with VAT when it settles  claims  is a commercial decision its entitled 
to take, and not something it would be appropriate for me to comment  on. HMRC sets out 
the relevant regulations that apply to tax issues, and its not within  the remit of this service to 
investigate these. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 June  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1003032