K820x#14Complaint
Mrs K complains that Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (TFS) refused to let her reject  a 
faulty car.
Background
In December 2017 Mrs K acquired new car costing  £12,305 funded by a part exchange and 
the balance by a hire purchase agreement. Mrs K says the car made a growling noise and 
when it went for its first service in December 2018  the garage identified  that the clutch  had 
burnt out. It replaced  this free of charge and it also replaced the brake discs at no cost.  The 
car had done  6,350 miles at this point.  The garage said the damage had been  caused by 
driving style.
Mrs K complained initially to the garage  and then to TFS. The garage said its mechanics had 
tested the car and could find no fault.  These both rejected her complaint and so the matter  
was brought to this service. It was investigated by one of our adjudicators who didnt 
recommend it be upheld.
He referred to the Consumer Rights Act say that if a fault is identified within 30 days, a 
consumer has the right to reject the vehicle. If a fault is identified after 30 days  - and was 
present or developing at the point  of supply - a finance company must be provided an 
opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair is unsatisfactory,  a consumer is again allowed to 
reject the vehicle.
He thought it unusual for a clutch to fail and the brake discs to need  to be replaced  after 
such a short period. However the garage had repaired the faults and there was insufficient 
evidence to show that the repairs  hadnt  been satisfactory. The fault had been repaired and 
that meant  TFSs responsibilities had been satisfied. Mrs K didnt agree and said it wasnt  
satisfactory for a clutch to fail after only 6,300 miles. Nor was it acceptable  to blame  her 
driving style. She no longer had faith in the car.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
TFS is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
Ref: DRN14871382involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It is surprising the clutch  on a new car failed so soon and I can appreciate Mrs Ks 
frustration. I cannot say why this occurred, but it is clear that it did. However, under 
consumer law the finance house  has one opportunity to repair  defective goods  and the 
garage has replaced the clutch and the discs.  If those repairs hadnt been successful then I 
would be able consider rejection, but I have seen no compelling  evidence that would allow  
me to say the car was still faulty.
The garage could  not find any fault several months  later the car had been repaired and I 
recognise Mrs K doesnt have a great  deal of faith in it but, I dont have anything  that would 
allow me to conclude the car was still faulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 
14 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1487138