K820x#14complaint
Mr M1 and Mr M2 complain that The Governor and Company of the Bank  of Ireland (BOI) 
has unreasonably refused  to offer them a new mortgage that allows them  to rent out the 
property after the expiry of their interest only mortgage. 
background
Mr M1 and Mr M2 took out an interest only residential mortgage for around  £109,000 with 
BOI in September 2006. The mortgage was for a term of 10 years.  The purpose of the 
mortgage was to finance a re-mortgage of a property  in the name  of Mr M1 to allow  him to 
buy out his former partner.
The mortgage term was due to end in September 2016. BOI says that it spoke to Mr M1 in 
September 2014. Mr M1 said that he was unable to repay the balance at the end of the 
mortgage term. And he said that he would call back at the end of the term to look at options.
BOI attempted  to contact  Mr M1 by letter and phone on multiple occasions between  
February 2015 and February 2017 to discuss his intentions for repaying the balance, but it 
couldnt make contact with him.
Following contact from a tenant  in February  2017,  BOI attempted to trace  Mr M1 but couldnt 
obtain any current details  for him. It continued  to try to contact him using the details  it held.
Mr M1 contacted BOI in May 2017.  And BOI explained that it was considering taking 
litigation action as the term had ended but the balance remained outstanding. Mr M1 
explained he had had a tenant  in the property,  who had moved out. And he explained that 
the property was potentially in negative  equity. The options available to Mr M1 were  
discussed. At this point  BOI also asked him to repay the arrears  that had built up. Mr M1 
said he would call back within 7 days but didnt do so.
In June 2017 Mr M1 contacted BOI again.  He said that he was having repair work done on 
the property. And he said he had had the property valued but wanted  to look at all the 
options. BOI said it would  consider extending  the mortgage and converting it to buy to let, 
however the arrears would need  to be cleared  first. It explained that there  was no guarantee 
this would be accepted and would  be subject to a full financial assessment.
Payments were not made on the mortgage, and in August  2017  BOI said it would start 
possession proceedings should  the arrears not be cleared. Mr M1 responded and said he 
had carried out repairs on the property, had found a new tenant and was living overseas. He 
asked for a new mortgage to be offered so he didnt have to sell the property while  in 
negative equity. But BOI said this was likely to be declined.
In November 2017 Mr M1 cleared the arrears and told BOI he would  soon be selling the 
property.
In February 2018  Mr M1 said he would be serving  notice to the tenants.  And in March 2018 
he confirmed that this had been  done, and BOI asked for evidence the property was on the 
market.
Mr M1 wrote  to BOI in June 2018. He said that BOI had told him to remove  the tenant for the 
property, but that meant he didnt have the means to pay the interest on the mortgage.  And 
Ref: DRN13899232he said that although BOI had told him to put the property on the market  it wouldnt tell him 
what offers  it would deem acceptable. He said that he couldnt accept an offer unless he had 
something in writing from the bank confirming that it was willing  to accept the shortfall.
BOI responded to Mr M1 in July 2018.  It said in particular:
the mortgage he had taken out was for a residential mortgage for a term of 10 years.  
Letting the property contravened the terms and conditions of the mortgage and 
should not have been done without BOIs written permission;
It was his contractual responsibility to maintain the instalments on the account and it 
could not be held responsible for any arrears  that had accrued as a result of him not 
receiving rental  income;
the fact that the balance was not repaid at the end of the term was also in breach of 
the terms and conditions and it would have  expected arrangements  to repay the 
outstanding sum to have been made in advance of the term end date. It was willing  
to work with him to resolve the situation but could only do so with his input. If he 
decided to accept  an offer on the property it could then explore how the shortfall 
would be paid off.
Mr M1 wasnt satisfied  with BOIs  response,  and brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said,  in 
summary:
The original mortgage offered  was a residential  mortgage, and not a buy to let. BOI 
hadnt given Mr M1 consent to rent out the property  and if this was the plan he should  
have applied  to switch the mortgage to a buy to let mortgage either with BOI or 
another lender;
No payments had been made  towards the mortgage since May 2018 and the arrears 
were building every month. And he didnt think it would be fair to ask BOI to offer 
Mr M1 a buy-to-let mortgage,  a change to a repayment mortgage or a term 
extension. BOI had offered a significant  amount of other concessions. In particular, 
no possession proceedings had been started and he felt BOI had acted  fairly  and 
reasonably during  the handling of the mortgage.
Mr M1 doesnt agree  with our investigators conclusions  and has asked for his complaint to 
be considered  by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M1 has raised a large  number of issues. Ive considered everything he has to say but 
have concentrated  my decision  on those issues which I find to be central  to his complaint.
Having carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments, I agree with our 
investigator that this complaint should  not be upheld. I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M1 and Mr M2 so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage offer dated  1 September 2006. It is clear  from this that the 
mortgage was interest  only and for a term of 10 years. So Im satisfied that Mr M1 and 
Ref: DRN13899233Mr M2 ought  to have  been aware  that the mortgage expired in September 2016 and that the 
full amount borrowed would be due at that time.
Im also satisfied that the mortgage was a residential mortgage. Under the terms of the 
mortgage Mr M1 was required to obtain BOIs  prior consent in writing before letting the 
property.
I note that Mr M1 says that he was told on the telephone that he didnt  require consent  to let. 
But although  I can see from the case notes BOI has supplied  that Mr M1 did call to change  
his address there is no evidence that renting the property  was discussed at that time. And, 
on balance, Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that BOI was unaware  that the property 
had been let until Mr M1s  tenant made  contact  in 2017.
Mr M1 also says that BOI told him to evict his tenant, which  he says has led to the arrears  on 
his account. But, from the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded  that BOI simply said to Mr M1 
that it would  be difficult for him to sell the property  with a sitting tenant.  I dont think  that this 
was unreasonable. And, as set out above,  Ive not seen any evidence to show  that BOI ever 
consented to Mr M1 letting the property.
As our investigator has explained, we do expect a business to treat its customers fairly 
where an interest only mortgage  expires  without a payment vehicle in place. But that does 
not necessarily mean that it must extend  the term or offer a new product, and I dont 
consider that would be a fair outcome in the circumstances here. BOI has explained that it 
isnt able to offer these options  to Mr M1 as he isnt a UK resident and is in arrears. And Im 
not persuaded that BOI has acted unreasonably in reaching this decision.
I appreciate that Mr M1 feels that he was misled in certain conversations  with BOI, when he 
was led to believe that it might be willing to a agree a term extension and change of 
repayment basis. But Im satisfied from the evidence that BOI made it clear that it was not 
guaranteed that it would be able to offer these  options.
Mr M1 says that BOI didnt explain its negative equity sales process to him properly, and that 
this left him in a position whereby he was unable to accept  an offer. But, having reviewed the 
contact notes that BOI has supplied, Im satisfied that the negative equity process was 
discussed with him in March 2017. 
Mr M1 complains  that BOI acted irresponsibly by lending him £109,000  given that his salary 
was comparatively low. And he says that BOI also over-valued the property at the time of the 
re-mortgage. But, although Ive considered what Mr M1 has to say, I dont agree. Given  that 
Mr M2 was also a party  to the mortgage the loan was not solely  based  on Mr M1s income. 
And Im persuaded that, if Mr M1 felt that the property was overvalued at the time of the re-
mortgage he had the opportunity to raise  this at that time.
Although I havent  found that BOI has done anything  wrong in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I am conscious that Mr M1s circumstances, and his ability to sell his property, are 
likely to have been impacted by the current covid-19 pandemic.  So, although I dont find it 
reasonable to ask BOI to allow Mr M1 any specific concessions, I do suggest that Mr M1 
contacts BOI to discuss his situation  in light of the pandemic. And I require BOI to treat 
MrM1 sympathetically and in accordance with the policies it is putting in place  for all 
customers affected by the pandemic when agreeing next steps with him. Those  policies will 
be based on the regulators guidance  which  makes no distinction between customers  in 
Ref: DRN13899234pre-existing arrears or beyond the end of an interest only term, and those  whose mortgages  
are operating normally, in setting out what measures may be available.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M1 and Mr M2 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1389923