K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2005 to protect a credit card. Ms J says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, 
mis-sold her PPI. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why. 
Ms J says she wasnt aware shed been sold PPI. And she says the card was taken out in a 
meeting. Halifax has given me a screenshot of its internal  systems  which  it says shows  PPI 
was sold over the telephone. Having looked  at it carefully, I can see it shows Halifax  Direct 
as the branch. As this isnt a name of a branch, Im satisfied, on balance  PPI was likely sold 
over the phone. 
Halifax has also given me a copy of Ms Js signed credit agreement. On it I can see a printed 
x that shows PPI was selected. And in a separate section Ms J has ticked  to show she 
wanted the PPI, and has then signed separately to the credit  card for it. 
So because of that, and based on what we know about Halifaxs  PPI sales  process  over the 
telephone around this time, I think Halifax most likely made it clear that Ms J didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms J so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time  including  what she has said 
about her sick pay entitlement and employer redundancy pay   I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Ive carefully considered  everything Ms J and her representatives have said about not being 
given clear or enough information about  the cost of the policy. And I accept its possible the 
information Halifax gave  Ms J about the PPI overall  wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. But 
she most likely  chose  to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover.
Ive thought about everything Ms J and her representatives have said  but these points 
dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms J paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Ms J back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN16301152I understand Halifax has already paid this to Ms J. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1630115