K822xcomplaint
Miss K complains  that a car she acquired with a hire purchase agreement  through 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited  (SMFL) suffered  engine failure. She thinks  this means it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when she got it.
background 
Miss K acquired a car for £7,990 with a hire purchase agreement taken through SMFL in 
October 2017. The car was around  six and a half years old and had covered around 54,000 
miles.
In March 2018, Miss K says she was driving on a motorway when the car broke down. She 
took it to a garage who told her the engine  had failed. She told SMFL and asked it to repair 
the car. At this point  the car had travelled around  4,500 miles since she got it.
SMFL arranged for an independent inspection of the car. This said the engine  had suffered 
consequential damage as a result  of the turbocharger failing and would need the engine and 
turbo to be replaced.  It said the engine failure wouldve happened  very quickly  and they 
believed the car wouldve been  of satisfactory  quality  when Miss K got it.
SMFL told Miss K it thought the engine failed due to natural wear and tear through general 
usage. It said there was no evidence the car was of unsatisfactory quality when she got it - 
so she would be responsible for the cost of repairing the car. Miss K said she couldnt afford 
to do this, so the car was voluntarily surrendered to SMFL and sold at auction.
Miss K remained unhappy and brought the complaint to us. Our investigator upheld  the 
complaint. She thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Miss K got it. SMFL  didnt  
agree, so the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
I sent SMFL  and Miss K a provisional  decision on 22 February 2019. This explained  that I 
initially intended to uphold the complaint. My findings from this decision are below:
When considering  whats fair and reasonable I take into account relevant law. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is relevant  to this complaint. This implies a term into the 
hire purchase agreement that the car supplied is of satisfactory quality. Therefore, the 
supplier (SMFL) can be liable if there  is an issue with the quality of the car.
The CRA says the quality  of the goods includes their general  state  and condition.  Other  
things like durability can also be aspects of the quality of goods. In deciding  whether the car 
was of satisfactory quality, I take into account things  like its description, price and other 
considerations like its age and mileage.
Ive thought about what the independent report says about the engine failure. It says the 
engine failed  due to natural wear and tear of the turbo seals  through  general usage.  
The report  suggests  there wasnt evidence of a fault being present at the time of sale. Ive 
thought about the way in which the car was described at supply, the issues around the 
service history (which I will come  on to) and the consequences of the part wearing out, i.e. 
the engine catastrophically  failing.  Having done so, I dont think  its fair and reasonable in 
this case to simply conclude from the report that this means the car was of satisfactory 
quality when Miss K got it.
Ref: DRN16600952Looking at the independent report, I dont think the engineer effectively considered  durability 
when reaching  his conclusions.
Ive thought about the advert for the car that Miss K saw. This said the car was in very good  
condition inside and out and engine + gearbox  in good order. I dont think Miss K couldve 
expected this car to be in perfect condition given its age and mileage. And there are some 
parts of the car that I think its reasonable to expect would need replacing  as time went on 
due to wear and tear. But, given what the advert  said about the car, along with other  relevant  
considerations, I think a reasonable person wouldve expected the engine  and gearbox to be 
free of major  problems for a reasonable amount of time.
Given the specific circumstances  of this case, the mileage of the car at supply and the way 
in which  the condition of the car was described, I think  Miss K could have reasonably 
expected the turbo on this particular car to have lasted more  than five months  and 4,500  
miles from the point Miss K got the car - even though it was an older car. Taking everything 
into account, Im satisfied this means  the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Miss K 
acquired it.
In response to the investigators assessment, SMFL said a turbo can last a significant 
amount of time, but this would depend  on how a car is maintained. It said a lack of oil 
changes, among other things, could  shorten  the life of a turbo. Ive thought carefully  about  
this and in particular in relation to what was said about the servicing  of the car. 
There is some conflicting information  about  the service history. Miss K says the dealer told 
her the car was serviced in September 2017   the month before she got it. And the advert 
for the car specifically says FSH, which I take to mean full service  history. 
But, looking  at photos of the service  record Miss K sent in, it appears the log hasnt been 
stamped since September 2015.  From  what I understand  about the service intervals for this 
car, this meant it wouldve  been  due a service  in September 2017 at the latest.
Miss K says the dealer  told her a service  had in fact been done, in September 2017 but the 
log hadnt been stamped  as it wasnt done  at a manufactures  garage. The dealer told us it 
didnt service the car itself, it went to an independent  garage for an inspection.  
In order for the car to have been  sold with a full service history,  it should have been serviced 
before September 2017 and this service should  have  been a long life service.  In which  
case, I dont think  its likely  that lack of servicing   or lack of oil given the Miss K had only 
driven 4,500 miles - wouldve caused the failure  of the engine.
In the event that the car wasnt serviced in the run up to September  2017, then I agree with 
SMFL that this could  possibly have affected the durability of the engine/turbo. But, the advert  
for the car clearly describes it as having a full service history.  So the expectations about the 
quality of the car relevant  to my findings  on satisfactory quality are unchanged by this.
In addition, if a service was missed  prior to sale Im satisfied this would mean the car was  
either misrepresented or mis-described to Miss K. Miss K said if she knew it wasnt  serviced,  
she either wouldve  insisted this was done before  she collected the car, or she wouldnt have 
got it. 
Ref: DRN16600953I accept what Miss K says here and so Id be minded to uphold Miss Ks complaint  in any 
event, particularly given  the catastrophic failure  of the engine which was arguably, as I have  
set to above, possibly due to a lack of service.    
So, whether  the car was or wasnt serviced  doesnt  change the outcome I would reach  on 
this case. For the sake of completeness,  given  Miss K only had the car for five months and 
had driven the car 4,500 miles from point of supply - and the car either had a full service or a 
promise that a full service  had taken place - I dont  think it likely that poor car maintenance is 
an issue here. 
I now need to think about what would be fair for SMFL to do to put things right. Repair  isnt 
possible here as the car has been sold at auction. Taking everything into account,  I think the 
fairest way to put things right here is to cancel  Miss Ks liability  under the agreement and 
refund her deposit   as well as payments made under the agreement when she was without 
a car. 
And thinking about what happened to Miss K when the car went wrong,  Im also satisfied she 
has suffered distress and inconvenience. She was left without  a car for some time because 
of what went wrong.
I gave both parties two weeks  to respond with any further information or evidence. Miss K 
said she agreed with my provisional  decision. SMFL disagreed. It said it thought Miss K 
decided to drive the car after the problems  started, which it argues led to the engine  failing.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think this complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
SMFL said it believes Miss K drove  the car after being aware the engine had begun to rev 
highly - which then caused  the engine to fail. So, Ive considered if I think  this is likely.
When discussing the high revs and subsequent engine failure, the independent report  says:
The above events will have taken place very quickly  on its last journey
So, I think its most likely the engine only began to rev highly very shortly before the engine  
failed. Nothing  in the report suggests Miss K wouldve been aware of a problem before this 
happened. And, nothing  in the report  suggests  the engine  failure  was caused by Miss K 
continuing to drive the car with a known fault.
Ive also considered that, as far as Im aware,  the car had to be recovered  from the roadside.  
So Miss K didnt drive  the car home  or to a garage. Miss K told us while  on the motorway  the 
engine revved  out of control, the only way to stop it was to remove  the keys and that smoke 
was billowing out of the engine. I understand that at this point the engine had 
catastrophically failed. So, I dont think she couldve continued to drive the car  even if she 
wanted to.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think its likely Miss K drove the car after knowing 
there was an issue with it. So it follows that I dont think  this is what caused the engine to fail.
Ref: DRN16600954Ive thought again about all of the other information  on this case.  But, I still think the 
complaint should  be upheld  for the reasons  explained above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Specialist Motor  Finance Limited 
to put things right by doing the following:
if not already  cancelled, cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
limit Miss Ks liability  under the agreement from the point the engine failed in March 
2018
remove any arrears,  charges or fees accrued from March  2018 onwards
remove the agreement and any associated information from Miss Ks credit file
refund  the deposit of £512.28*
refund  any money paid towards the finance since the point the engine failed in March  
2018*
pay Miss K £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she suffered
*These payments should have 8% simple interest  added from when Miss K incurred the 
costs to when they are refunded. HM Revenue & Customs requires SMFL to take off tax 
from this interest. SMFL must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1660095