K822xcomplaint
G (a limited company) made a claim for consequential losses incurred as a result of being
mis-sold an interest rate hedging  product  by Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds). Lloyds did not agree
to compensate G for all the losses G thinks it suffered and so G has referred a complaint to
this service.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision,  dated 
12 November 2018, a copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision. 
Lloyds was in broad agreement with my provisional  decision  and did not have any further 
points to add. Gs owner replied to my provisional decision and said:
He was under considerable financial pressure at the time he wanted to refinance Gs 
loan with Lloyds.  The swap represented a contingent liability on Gs balance  sheet of 
over £327,000. The loan to value  ratio of the proposed loan (and contingent liability 
of the potential break costs) was just over 70%. 
The value of the business had increased from £2,000,000  to £2,850,000,  new leases 
had been agreed, rental income was up and profitability was much  improved.
The swap was due to run for another seven years, G had various other  loans 
ongoing and the business had been shut for longer than originally anticipated  due to 
overrunning work, so it made  sense to consolidate Gs debts and improve its cash 
flow.
G pushed hard for a second loan of £400,000  and wanted to leave the initial loan 
unchanged, as the interest rate was only 1.5% above base rate, which was low in 
2011.
With the swap still in place Lloyds had G over a barrel. It was impossible to raise the 
finance from other parties due to the high break costs  or ongoing swaps  payments.
If the swap had ended in June 2011 the £400,000 loan requirement would have been 
reduced. G says if the swap had finished it would have only required £334,000 in 
November 2011. 
Without the added pressure of the monthly  swap payments, it could have deferred 
payments under  the vendor loan, extended  the term or might have made  a smaller 
lump sum reduction to the loan in June 2011,  leaving  G more  cash.
It already had a £45,469 term loan with Lloyds and it wouldnt have refinanced this.
Lloyds said it would  withdraw Gs overdraft if G didnt want  to proceed with the 
refinance.
Gs owners parents  provided £130,000 to G in October-December  2011  to help cash  
flow. If the swap had ended in June  2011,  this £130,000 would have provided a 
significant proportion  of the funds  G was looking for. His parents provided  a further 
£105,000 in the first half of 2013.
Gs owners parents  were willing and able to provide capital to support G in 2011. 
The existence of the swap meant G was reluctant to ask them to inject funds 
because the business  was vulnerable. The parents made investments on commercial  
terms. Without the swap in place,  the business  would have looked more  positive and 
the parents would have likely  invested. 
Gs owner sold his home  in 2013 and used  the £270,000 net equity to repay  £65,000 
lent by his parents  and £200,000  to reduce  the Lloyds loan. He would have 
considered selling his home in 2011 if the swap hadnt been in place. 
Ref: DRN19827702It would  have made no business  sense  for G to refinance the whole loan and pay an 
extra £27,000 per year in interest if its borrowing requirement had been reduced. 
He didnt want to ask his parents to inject £400,000 into his business while the swap 
was still in place.  
They sold property in 2015 releasing around US$50,000, which they could have 
looked at doing  in 2011. 
Regarding the Business Support  Unit (BSU) fees, he was told by Lloyds  that it aimed 
to get businesses back on a stable footing within six months. Shortly  after G entered 
the BSU the FCA review into mis-sold  swaps began. G joined the review but Lloyds 
policy was that businesses in the BSU had to remain  there while the review  was 
ongoing and until their claim was closed. As this complaint  is still ongoing, G remains  
in the BSU.
It can understand my view that Lloyds might have transferred G to the BSU in 2011 
in either  set of circumstances,  but it feels without the ongoing  swap its medium  and 
long term prospects were  much improved. It should have been transferred back  to 
mainstream banking  after 6 months.
With the swap contract finished, had G refinanced with Lloyds, G doesnt think  Lloyds 
would have insisted  on the audit by BDO  or the second revaluation.
In terms of personal drawings, Gs owner  says the £14,000 per month drawings were 
funded by all three  of his separate limited companies and he moved cash  between  
the companies as required. The average  monthly drawings from IT Golf were £3,156 
per month. The £14,000 overall monthly drawing  requirement was not likely to last 
long in any event  because certain long-standing personal expenses  were due to 
finish in 2011  and 2012.
The negative impact  of the swap in 2011  was wide-ranging. Gs owner  was having to 
run his businesses, negotiate the sale of part of his retail business, negotiate new 
leases, co-ordinate a major renovation project and balance cash flows, amongst 
other things. His mind-set would have been completely different if he had known the 
swap contract was due to finish in June 2011. 
He feels it was Lloydss objective  to move  G off its low interest  rate loan and move it 
to a higher one and if the swap  hadnt been  in place, he would have had more 
flexibility not to accept that refinancing  of Gs loan. 
The whole process of dealing with Lloyds  was very traumatic  and had a huge  impact 
on his management  time and ability  to push through and complete new opportunities.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I need  to look at whether Lloyds failures actually 
caused these  consequential losses. And if they did, I also need to ask whether its fair to 
hold Lloyds responsible for those losses. That is, Id need to ask whether Lloyds could 
reasonably foresee that its failures  would  result in losses like these.  
Having reconsidered  everything, including the new submissions, Ive reached  the same  
overall conclusions  as set out in my provisional decision and broadly for the same reasons.
the refinance
Ref: DRN19827703Did G need to raise additional money? G says with the swap still in place for another seven 
years, with various  other  ongoing loan repayments  and the delayed reopening of the 
business after extensive redevelopment, it made  sense to consolidate debt and ease cash  
flow. I think it might  have still made  sense  to refinance in the absence  of the swap.  The 
redevelopment had been delayed and the evidence provided indicates it would have taken 
time to rebuild the customer  base, income  declined in the winter months and the debt 
servicing costs appear to have been high,  relative  to funds available for debt servicing. 
If I accepted that Gs owner didnt need to take £14,000 per month in drawings from the 
business and only required  £3,156  from G this suggests debt servicing was not a problem 
for G, even with the swap. Lloyds identified £29,917 was available per month for debt 
servicing. The combined monthly cost of debt to G with the swap  would have been 
something like £26,723, based on the monthly  cost figures I have for the swap, the main  
loan, the smaller Lloyds  loan, the drawings, the vendor loan and the monthly  BSU fee. Even  
adding the overdraft costs would suggest  G could adequately service its debts. Since that 
doesnt appear to have  been the actual position in 2011, I think the level of drawings from G 
might have been higher than £3,156 per month. The overdraft was also due for repayment  
on 31 January 2012  and G was around £61,000  overdrawn  in November 2011, rising  to 
£125,000 by the time the overdraft was repaid in April 2012. Not all of that increase appears 
to have been due to the swap payments if the swap cost £5,800  per month.  There  is also 
some suggestion the inter-company loan needed to be repaid. 
So, overall, I think there would still have been  a need for additional funding  in 2011/2012. G 
says if the swap had finished in June 2011  it would  have only required £334,000 additional 
funding in November  2011. It might have been  able to reduce this further and might have 
taken different decisions about  the extent to which  it repaid the vendor loan. But it appears it 
would have still needed to raise some  additional  money.
How much money did G need to raise? G actually asked for, or discussed with Lloyds, 
borrowing: £150,000  to repay  the vendor loan; £100,000 for the overdraft; £75,000 to repay 
loans from other companies; £45,469  to refinance the small Lloyds loan and £36,000  to 
cover upcoming swaps payments. The size of the overdraft changed over time and I dont 
have complete records but I note Gs account  was £61,000 overdrawn  in November 2011 
and £125,000 overdrawn by the time it was repaid  by the refinanced loan in April 2012.
I accept G wouldnt have  needed the £36,000 to cover the swaps payments and there is little 
reason to suppose  the small Lloyds loan couldnt  have  been retained since it had only just 
been taken out. But that still leaves £325,000 G wanted. G says it could have extended  the 
term of the vendor loan and so reduced  the monthly payments, rather than repay it. That 
might have been a possibility,  so that might  have reduced the requirement to £175,000. I 
think its probable  Lloyds would still have required the overdraft  to be repaid and I 
understand it was due to be repaid by 31 January 2012 and there is some suggestion the 
loan to the other company  needed  to be repaid in 2011/12 even though  Im aware Gs owner  
controlled the other company.  So, if things  had been  different, it seems  G might still have 
needed at least  £170,000  and possibly anything up to £370,000, or perhaps some  other  
amount in between. G has said various things  about what  it might  have done and its very 
difficult for me to determine what its most likely  course of action would have been. I think  it is 
likely G needed at least £170,000 for the reasons given above. If that was the case, I think  
its equally possible it would have chosen to consolidate all the loans and borrow £370,000  
or so. However, I accept  it would have likely had a reduced borrowing need if the swap  had 
ended in June  2011. 
Ref: DRN19827704Could it have raised the money it needed  from elsewhere? There is some evidence  G looked 
into refinancing  elsewhere with another bank, although whether the terms would have  been  
better than those offered by Lloyds is not at all clear. Discussions with the other bank dont 
seem to have advanced as far as detailed  discussion of the possible terms, due to the 
outstanding swap.
Gs owner says his parents were willing and able to provide capital to support G in 2011.  I 
think thats probably right. They appear to have provided substantial  amounts of cash at 
various points. Gs owners  parents provided  £130,000 to G in October-December 2011 to 
help cash flow. Although this doesnt appear to have reduced  the amount  G was looking to 
borrow. The parents provided a further  £105,000 in the first half of 2013.  Of which  £65,000 
appears to have been paid back promptly from the sale of Gs owners home. 
Gs owner says the existence of the swap meant  he was reluctant to ask his parents  to inject  
funds because the business  was vulnerable.  He says without the swap in place,  the 
business would have looked  more  positive and his parents would have likely invested. Im 
not persuaded the removal of the swap is key. They did provide significant cash support in 
2011 and at various other points, even  when G still had the swap running. I think he could 
have sought all the funding he needed  from his parents in 2011 but chose  not to. So Im not 
persuaded he would have  made a different choice if there had no longer been  a swap in 
place. 
Gs owner sold his home in 2013 and used  the £270,000 net equity to repay  £65,000 lent by 
his parents and £200,000 to reduce the Lloyds loan. He says he would have considered 
selling his home in 2011  if the swap hadnt been  in place. While this is a possibility,  I am not 
persuaded this is more  likely than not what Gs owner would have chosen to do. Even he 
says he would have  considered selling  the family home earlier,  not that he would definitely  or 
more likely than not would  have done so. 
Ive also considered if the borrowing requirement  was lower, might  Lloyds  have acted 
differently and offered a lower  rate?  I consider this is unlikely. Gs owner  says he thinks  
Lloyds wanted  to move G off its low interest rate. Lloyds has said there is no evidence it 
would have offered  a lower rate of interest than the one offered and there  is no indication it 
had an appetite to grant  a separate loan instead of refinancing the whole debt to a higher 
interest rate. Overall, there  is little reason to think it would have offered a better rate had the 
requirement for borrowing been  different.
Ultimately, while I accept  Gs owner  might have  been able to take different courses of action, 
many of those courses of action appear to have been open  to him with or without the swap  
in place. So its difficult to say positively what he would have done differently, if anything, if 
the swap had finished in June 2011. For example, it seems he could have asked his parents 
for the full £400,000 he wanted irrespective of whether the swap was in place.  That would 
have avoided refinancing his whole  debt at the increased interest rate proposed  by Lloyds. 
While he says he did not want  to ask his parents to commit that money  while the swap was 
still in place, his parents  did still commit  large amounts to G even when the swap  was in 
place, so its not clear  something different would have happened  if the swap had ended in 
June 2011.  
Overall Im not persuaded  G would have acted differently or persuaded that it would have 
taken one of the particular  courses  of action  its owner suggests.
the business support unit fees
Ref: DRN19827705G says it can understand my view that its likely it would  have  entered  Lloyds BSU in 2011 
even if the swap  had ended in June  2011, although  it doesnt particularly agree with me. 
However, it does feel it would have left the BSU by now and points to Lloyds aim to get 
businesses back on a firm footing  within six months of entering  the BSU.
As mentioned in my provisional decision,  I havent  seen  clear criteria from Lloyds explaining 
when and why customers will be referred  to and released from its BSU,  so it is difficult to 
assess when G might have exited the BSU if circumstances had been  different. Lloyds 
explained the purpose of referring G to the BSU and paying a monthly management  fee for it 
was to reflect the additional work Lloyds was doing  in closely  monitoring  G. It isnt clear that 
Lloyds ever did stop monitoring G closely and so it seems it might well have continued to 
charge the fee.
I also mentioned that Lloyds didnt start charging the fees until October 2011 and refunded  
the fees incurred from July 2015 onwards. I said in my provisional decision that if G hadnt 
been paying for the swap after July 2011 it would have saved around £104,000 between  
July 2011 and March 2013 (when the swap payments were  suspended). I said if all that 
money had been  retained by G or otherwise invested in the business it isnt clear to me that 
this would, more  likely  than not, have changed Gs financial position to the extent Lloyds 
would have stopped closely monitoring Gs financial position and moved G out of the BSU. 
None of the information presented since I issued my provisional decision clarifies  that or 
leads me to conclude  G would  have exited the BSU earlier.
management time
Gs owner says the whole process  of dealing  with Lloyds was very traumatic and had a huge 
impact on his management time and ability to push through and complete new opportunities.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  while Im sure dealing with the swap  and issues  arising  
from it did take some time,  it has not been  demonstrated sufficiently that the impact  on 
management time was the cause of delay  for the business opportunities G has claimed for. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I intend to uphold  Gs complaint 
in part and require Lloyds Bank  Plc to pay G the following:
The cost of the 2012 advisory fees;
£5,676 towards  Gs legal costs;
8% simple interest on these losses up to the date of settlement.
I dont make any award for the other losses claimed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Greg Barham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN19827706Copy  of Provisional Decision
complaint
G (a limited company) made a claim for consequential losses incurred as a result of being mis-sold an 
interest rate hedging  product  by Lloyds  Bank Plc (Lloyds).  Lloyds did not agree  to compensate G for 
all the losses G thinks it suffered and so G has referred a complaint to this service.
background
G took out a loan with Lloyds in 2008 to enable  it to buy a commercial property with potential  for 
further development. It arranged a loan of £1.5m with Lloyds,  G owners contributed £250,000  
personally and the vendor  of the property  agreed to loan G £350,000. The Lloyds loan had a variable 
Ref: DRN19827707rate of interest  1.5% above base rate, was for a term of 15 years and was interest-only for the first 
12 months before  becoming amortising. 
Gs owners say they calculated that in the first three to five years they needed  to ensure borrowing  
costs did not exceed around 7%. After that they were confident  increasing revenues from the 
business would enable them to handle  higher  interest rates, if rates  should  rise.
G took out a swap with a fixed rate of 5.92% and a 1.5% margin and a term of 10 years.
In 2009, with interest rates  having  fallen  significantly, G enquired about exiting the swap and was 
informed there would  be substantial break costs  amounting to several  hundred thousand pounds.
G complained it was mis-sold the interest rate swap. This part of the complaint has already been 
resolved, as both parties accepted our adjudicators view that the original ten-year swap should be 
replaced by a three-year  swap.  Redress  has already been paid to settle this part of the complaint.  
Lloyds offered to pay £103,876.40,  calculated as the difference between the amount G paid under  the 
original swap and the amount it would have paid if it had taken a three-year  swap at a swap rate of 
6.23%. Lloyds offered to pay interest on this amount  of £25,360.61.
G then claimed  for a number of consequential losses it said the mis-sold  swap had caused.  
G accepted that it would have been in more or less the same financial position  up to 
mid- 2011,  when the 3-year swap would  have  finished.  After July 2011,  it feels its financial position 
would have started to change. G says the original  swap was costing between  £5,300 and £6,500 per 
month, which would no longer have been a cost to G after July 2011 under  the alternative swap.  The 
potential break costs  were also a contingent liability  in Gs accounts, which had implications for it 
when it tried to refinance in 2011/12.
G says it requested a £400,000 increase  to its loan in September 2011. It wanted the additional 
money to consolidate a recent £50,000 loan it had taken out with Lloyds, repay £50,000  loaned to it 
by Gs owners  family,  repay the remaining £175,000 owed to the vendor of the property  and repay 
£125,000 owed to another company of which Gs owner  was a director. G says by repaying these 
loans it would  assist its cash flow, which was a concern with the ongoing swap payments. 
G says Lloyds  indicated that the original loans break costs were  between  £260,000  and £306,000  at 
that point.  The existing loan amount, the proposed £400,000 increase and the potential break  costs 
created a potential liability of around £2,080,000. Lloyds indicated it required a loan to value (LTV) 
ratio of 70% or less in order to grant further lending.  It instructed valuers, particularly to check the LTV 
position. The valuers report was to be paid for by G and cost £3,000,  which  G claims as a 
consequential loss. The report, dated 1 November  2011, gave G a valuation of £2,850,000, a LTV 
ratio of about 73%.
Lloyds did not agree to increase the existing  loan, but did offer a refinancing package including an 
increase in the margin on the whole  loan from 1.5% to 3.5%,  payment of a £5,175 arrangement fee 
and two sets of fees for reports into G that Lloyds had required (the £3,000 valuation fee and another  
fee for a report into G and its business amounting to £12,045.10). The refinanced  loan completed in 
May 2012. 
G says if it had taken out the alternative  swap, suggested in the redress for the mis-sale complaint, it 
would have required only a £150,000 loan and £50,000 overdraft. It says Lloyds would  have had no 
justification for refusing  this proposal  and would  not have needed a valuation and other reports. It also 
says the arrangement fee would  have  been  no more than £1,000, rather  than the £5,175 paid. G 
claims the additional  amount  it paid as a result  of agreeing to a 2% margin increase (and it wants that 
agreement restructured to reflect a 1.5% margin), plus the £3,000 fee, the £12,045.10 fee and £4,175 
being the difference between the arrangement  fee and what it feels a fair arrangement fee should  
have been.
Ref: DRN19827708G borrowed £65,000 in 2012  due to cash flow problems  caused by the swap and paid £2,355.68 in 
interest on this loan.  It claims this as a consequential loss.
Lloyds charged G £350 per month  from October 2011 onwards because  G had been referred  to 
Lloyds Business  Support Unit. G says the only rationale  for it to have been referred to the Business  
Support Unit was its cash  flow position. As it feels its cash flow position  would have been  better if it 
had taken out the 3 year swap, it feels Lloyds should refund these charges. 
G also claims fees for exceeding its overdraft  limit, interest fees and other charges  incurred  which it 
says it would  not have incurred if it had taken out the 3-year swap.  It calculates this to be £3,698.73.
G claims it lost several opportunities  to develop the property due to the swap.  
It says it could have built an on-site restaurant  but needed Lloyds consent. Lloyds  told G in March 
2012 it did not support  the project.  
It agreed terms with a company to develop an adventure trail on the site. It postponed  development  of 
the adventure trail due to the delay in completing the restaurant. 
G feels  had the swap not been in place,  it could  have funded the development, either  with Lloyds, a 
new lender,  or through sale of the family  home.  
G says the time spent on dealing with the swap and related issues has meant it could not dedicate 
time to exploring sponsorship  and advertising opportunities. If the swap had finished in 2011, it feels it 
could have focused on increasing its advertising  revenues by up to £10,000 per month.
G also claims for fees it paid to a company  specialising in interest rate hedging advisory  services. It 
engaged the same company  again,  when it was going through the FCA review,  to provide 
representation on a number  of technical aspects of their claim and incurred further fees. G feels it 
would not have had to incur these costs if it wasnt for the swap.
G also claims for legal fees incurred in being  represented before the FCA review  took place, during 
the review and in bringing Gs consequential  loss claim  to us.
Lloyds reviewed the consequential loss claim.  It agreed with some of the claims, and offered redress 
for some third party costs and legal fees. It also offered a partial refund of the monthly account  
management fees,  from September  2015 onwards.
One of our adjudicators  also considered the claim. He agreed with the offer made  by the bank,  but 
asked it to also refund the remaining management fees,  amounting to £13,850. He didnt recommend  
that the other claims should be upheld.
G was unhappy with this. It still believed the full claim was due to it. However, it said it would be 
willing to settle the matter for a reduced total of £75,000. It made  a counter-offer to the bank to this 
effect. After several  months considering this, the bank rejected  the counter-offer without further 
comment.
Lloyds has not provided a full reply to the adjudication.  However, it has questioned the adjudicators 
view that the remaining  management fees should be refunded. It says its offer to partially refund these 
fees wasnt  related to the swap mis-sale.  As the parties  remain in dispute,  the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN19827709Many of the items Gs representative has claimed for require me to consider what, if anything, G 
would have done differently  if it had been  sold a three-year swap, rather than the  ten year swap 
actually sold to it. Deciding what G is likely to have done if circumstances  were different is not easy.
I need to look at whether Lloyds failures actually  caused the consequential losses claimed for. And if 
they did, I also need to consider whether its fair to hold Lloyds  responsible for the losses.  To do this, I 
need to ask whether Lloyds could reasonably foresee that its failures  would result in losses like these. 
In other words, Id need to be satisfied the losses werent  too remote  from Lloyds failings.
I note the adjudicator said he would  need to be satisfied Lloyds  failings actually caused the losses 
claimed for and would need to be sure G didnt have any other options . I dont  agree with the 
adjudicator on this point and am satisfied Ive correctly  set out the test above. However, when  
considering whether Lloyds should compensate any such loss, I would need to take into account  
whether G could have taken action to mitigate the loss
The adjudicator considered the lost business opportunities  were not reasonably  foreseeable. I dont 
agree with the adjudicator on this point. The lost opportunities, which  form the basis for some of Gs 
consequential loss claims, related to development of the property G purchased using the Lloyds loan. 
Lloyds was aware from the outset that G planned to develop  the site, so I think  Lloyds could  have 
reasonably foreseen  that selling G the wrong  financial  products might impact  on Gs finances and 
ability to develop the site. 
The adjudicator also said G would have stopped incurring  consequential losses in March 2013 when 
the swaps  payments were  suspended on G joining  the FCA review.  I dont agree with the adjudicator 
that it necessarily follows that any consequential losses would stop being incurred or would stop 
accruing at that point.
The refinancing in 2011/2012
It seems to me the main  issues for me to consider are: would  G have done anything differently and 
would that have  made a difference to the rate Lloyds  charged?
G has provided cash flow spreadsheets to show the financial position it thinks  it would have been in 
had it taken a three-year  swap instead of the ten-year swap. Ive considered these, and the rest of its 
submissions carefully.  It feels it would  have  been  in a position where it would only have needed to 
borrow a further £150,000 from Lloyds  and a £50,000  overdraft, rather  than the £400,000 it applied 
for. It says its aim was to improve its cash flow and pay off other debts. 
According to the email  from Lloyds to G dated 28 September 2011, Gs financial  position  at the time it 
was looking into refinancing  was as follows:
It had an outstanding  loan with Lloyds of £1,370,000  the main loan.
It had a smaller  term loan of £50,000  with Lloyds.
It was looking to borrow  another £400,000:
£175,000 to repay the outstanding  vendor loan.
£125,000 to repay an inter-company loan lent to G by a company of which Gs owner was a 
director. The email noted repayment of this loan was required urgently  by the lending 
company.
£50,000 owed to the father  of Gs owner. While there was no urgent requirement to repay, the 
interest rate on this loan was 10% per year.
G wanted the additional £50,000 to provide working capital as it approached the quieter 
winter months.
In terms of cash flow, I note from Lloyds  email  to G dated 28 November  2011:
Ref: DRN198277010The vendor loan cost £8,333 per month
The monthly interest and capital repayment on the main  Lloyds loan was £7,563.
The additional Lloyds bank loan had a monthly repayment of £1,521
The swap  was costing around £5,800 per month
Lloyds noted that the monthly debt commitments listed above (excluding overdraft  costs and the £350 
monthly management fee) amounted to over £23,000. In addition Gs owner was taking drawings  of 
£14,000 per month and there was no suggestion  this was likely to reduce in the short term.  Lloyds 
noted the total cash  available for debt servicing  was £29,917 per month.  Lloyds also noted  the need 
for G to retain some cash  in the business. So the combined level of debt and drawings seems to have 
been a significant factor in the decision to restructure. Lloyds made it clear  in its correspondence  that 
it had no appetite for a partial loan restructure.
Even without  the swap, it appears the level of debt and the level of drawings combined  would have 
exceeded the £29,917 available for servicing  debt. 
Restructuring the loans would have produced a new monthly  loan repayment of £12,802,  allowed the 
level of drawings to be maintained and given some scope to retain  some cash  in the business. 
Overall, Im not persuaded by Gs evidence  that it would  have sought to borrow only £150,000  and 
arrange a £50,000 overdraft if it had taken out the three-year  swap. It seems that the repayment of 
the £125,000 inter-company loan was urgent, so it seems more likely  than not G would have 
borrowed from Lloyds to repay some or all of that loan. Repayment of that loan wouldnt have 
changed Gs position materially  it appears debt servicing and drawings would still have  exceeded 
the money available to pay for them. So there appears to have been a need to restructure its debts. 
On balance, I think  its likely G would still have restructured its debts and Ive seen little to persuade 
me this would have been limited to a new £150,000 term loan and £50,000 overdraft extension. 
I also havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me Lloyds would have offered G a lower rate on 
additional borrowing than it did if G had borrowed less. Lloyds says that while  it agreed to lend at 
base rate plus 1.5% in 2008, by 2011 the economic  environment was quite different, as were  Gs 
circumstances. I accept  that. 
Im less clear  on whether Lloyds considered  Gs LTV ratio to be 62% based on how much it actually  
owed against the value of its business, or 71% due to the contingent liability  posed by the swaps 
potential break costs.  Lloyds email dated 28 September 2011 seems to suggest the potential break  
costs would  be taken into account, whereas Lloyds tells me they would  not. But I dont think that 
changes my view,  since there  is no evidence to show Lloyds would have offered  a different rate due 
to the LTV ratio. In general, it seems unlikely  Lloyds would have been willing  to lend a substantial  
further amount  at the low rate of 0.5% plus a 1.5% margin to a business  it had recently referred  to its 
Business Support Unit.
Valuation and report  fees
As I am not persuaded G would, more  likely than not, have borrowed  less when it restructured its 
loans, it also follows that I do not think it should receive  a refund of part of the arrangement fee, nor 
the valuation fees.
I would also add that while G thinks Lloyds  wouldnt have  required a valuation and a report  into Gs 
cash flow projections and management accounts if it had just sought  to borrow  an additional  
£150,000-£200,000, I am not persuaded that is correct.  G suggests that because the site was 
purchased for £2,000,000 in 2008 and significant improvements had taken place in the last few years,  
other income streams had been secured and the original loan had reduced, the value of the site (and 
Lloyds security)  would obviously have been higher. It says if it hadnt been for the swaps potential 
break costs being treated  as a potential liability in Gs accounts, no reports  would have been required. 
However, the economic climate changed dramatically between 2008 and 2011, Lloyds was aware the 
costs of the development had overrun and it was aware G owed money to various other parties. I 
Ref: DRN198277011think Lloyds would have  been interested to know how the business  was performing since the major 
redevelopment completed. It would also have been interested to understand the relationship and 
liabilities between the various  companies  of which  Gs owner was a director and how they affected G. 
Overall, I think  its likely they would still have  required the reports and valuations  for the reasons given  
above, even if G planned to borrow less.
The Business Support  Unit fees
I understand G was referred to Lloyds Business  Support Unit in April 2011. Lloyds  wrote to G on 19 
April 2011 to inform G of its decision to refer it to the Business Support  Unit. G has accepted that its 
financial position would  not have been materially different under  the replacement swap until it ended  
in July 2011. On that basis, I think its likely G would  still have  been referred  to the Business  Support  
Unit in April 2011 with or without the replacement swap.
One of the reasons for referring G to the Business  Support  Unit was concern over ongoing debt 
serviceability and it seems likely those concerns would  have continued  after July 2011.  I say this 
because the email  chain between Lloyds and G, referred to above,  concerning  the proposed  
refinance in 2011/2012 shows Lloyds  was still concerned  about overall  debt serviceability after July 
2011. Even without the monthly swap payments the money  available for debt servicing and drawings 
didnt cover those items of Gs expenditure. Overall, Im persuaded at least some of these  Business 
Support Unit fees would still have been incurred.  
It isnt clear to me at what point Lloyds  might have moved G out of the Business  Support  Unit if the 
swap had ended in July 2011. I havent seen clear  criteria from Lloyds  explaining when and why 
customers will be referred to and released  from its Business Support Unit, so it is difficult to assess  
when G might have exited  the Business  Support Group. The information  there is concerning the 
rationale for Lloyds referring G to the Business Support Unit and paying a monthly management fee 
for it was to reflect the additional work Lloyds  was doing in closely  monitoring G.
I can see Lloyds didnt start charging the fees until October 2011 and, as explained above, Im 
satisfied that would have happened even if the swap had ended in July 2011.  Lloyds agreed to refund 
the fees incurred from July 2015 (the date the mis-sale complaint was settled).  So I need to decide 
whether there is enough  evidence to suggest Lloyds would have been likely to allow G to exit Lloyds 
Business Support Unit before July 2015 and if so, when. I also note the swap payments were  
suspended by March 2013, so it seems reasonable to conclude swap  payments werent  an ongoing 
factor in G remaining  in the Business Support Unit after March 2013.
If G hadnt been paying  for the swap after July 2011 it would have saved  around £104,000  between  
July 2011 and March  2013 (when the swap payments  were  suspended). If all that money  had been  
retained by G or otherwise invested in the business  it isnt clear to me that this would,  more likely than 
not, have  changed Gs financial position to the extent Lloyds would  have stopped closely monitoring  
Gs financial position and moved G out of the Business  Support  Unit.
Delayed development opportunities
G says it would have pursued various development  opportunities if it hadnt been for the swap.
1.A restaurant
2.High wire adventure trail
3.Advertising and sponsorship 
G says it could have built an on-site restaurant earlier than it did if it had not been for the swap. G 
says discussions with a partner/tenant for the restaurant development  began in earnest in early 2013 
but Gs finances were  in a difficult positon due to the swap. G says that it began  work on the project 
on receipt of the swap redress payment and this confirms it was the absence  of funds caused  by the 
swap that prevented  it from pursuing this opportunity  earlier.  I believe the restaurant  was completed in 
July 2016 but G considers it could have been completed by mid-2014.
Ref: DRN198277012G has provided some emails  between  it and the partner it was working with to develop  the restaurant.   
There is a letter from the partner from 2016 suggesting it was the ongoing issues relating to the swap  
that caused delay. There are also emails between  G and its business  partner, sent between  2013 and 
2015, which appear to show that the original planning application was targeted to be submitted in July 
2013, with an anticipated  answer by early October 2013. Another email from February 2014 indicating 
certain items  still needed  to be agreed between the partners.  Further emails from May 2015  suggest a 
previous planning application for the restaurant may have been turned down. The emails from the 
time dont really suggest  delays were being caused by financial issues caused  by the swap. They 
appear to show time being  taken up agreeing terms, obtaining drawings, getting planning  applications  
approved etc. I also understand that payments under the swap had been suspended In March  2013 
due to the FCA review, so they wouldnt  have been having a direct impact on Gs cash flow at that 
time, although I accept G wouldnt have  known  whether it might have to make up these payments at 
some point in the future. Overall, I am not persuaded there is enough evidence  to show the swap 
caused the delay in building the restaurant.
G says the high wire adventure trail was scheduled to start construction  once the restaurant  was 
finished and therefore, had the restaurant  been finished two years earlier,  the high wire trail would 
also have been finished two years earlier.
Since Im not persuaded the delay to the restaurant  was down to the swap,  for the reasons given 
above, it follows that I do not consider  the high wire adventure trail was delayed due to delays to the 
restaurant caused by the swap. In any event, it isnt clear why work on the high wire adventure trail 
would be dependent on completion of the restaurant.
G says it lost the opportunity  to maximise advertising revenue due to the time Gs owner had to 
dedicate to dealing with the swap issues and problems caused  by the swap. It has provided some 
evidence to show the general advertising  opportunities  that were  available. While  Im sure dealing 
with the swaps did take some time, it has not been demonstrated that these  opportunities  could not 
have been pursued but for the swap. As a general  observation, I think  it would have been possible to 
find some  time to pursue these other revenue streams, which would  have been a way to alleviate 
some of the cash flow pressures G was facing. 
Interest and charges incurred as a result  of the swap mis-sale (£3,698.73).
I understand these costs  relate  to additional interest, charges and over limit fees G feels  it paid as a 
result of having a higher overdraft than it would otherwise have had due to the swap.  Lloyds doesnt 
feel these have  been  evidenced and would be offset  against the compensatory interest already  paid 
in any event. 
I agree with Lloyds that these types of additional expense would be covered by the compensatory 
interest already paid. As I dont think the recoverable  consequential losses exceed the amount paid in 
compensatory interest, I dont think any further amount is due.
Costs related to a loan (£2,355.68).
G says it took out a loan that it would  not otherwise have taken out but for the swap.  G accepts that 
the costs of this loan can be offset against the compensatory  interest already paid by Lloyds. 
However, it says where  the total amount of its consequential loss exceeds the amount paid by Lloyds 
in compensatory  interest, it should receive  further compensation. I agree this amount can be offset 
against compensatory interest, however I dont think Gs combined, proven  consequential  losses 
exceed the amount of compensatory interest already paid.
The 2013 valuation fee
The further valuation  fee appears  to have  been charged  in early 2013 in connection  with the sale of 
Gs owners home. I dont think  its been demonstrated  that Gs owners home  wouldnt have been 
Ref: DRN198277013sold but for the swap. I understand Lloyds  had legal  charges over the home  and I havent seen 
enough to lead me to safely conclude  it wouldnt have required a valuation  to be carried  out before 
consenting to the sale.
Costs of third party advice (the report from a specialist swaps  advisory company) 
Lloyds agreed to refund  the costs relating to a report carried out by this company in 2012, amounting  
to £3,500  plus interest, but not the later ones incurred  in 2014  some £2,250. G feels  it needed the 
professional support and advice in 2014. The further advice in 2014 was advice in relation to Gs 
participation in the FCA review. It says it made numerous challenges to Lloyds proposed resolution 
and these were only resolved when  the issue was referred to us. It says if Lloyds  had made a 
reasonable offer at an earlier stage, it would not have required the advisory companys involvement.  
The FCA had said at the outset that participants didnt  need  to be represented in the review. 
Ultimately the consumer brought the case to us, we looked into it independently  and we proposed an 
outcome, in terms of the basic redress at least, that the parties have agreed to. 
Im sure G found the advice useful and engaging third parties was a perfectly legitimate choice for G 
to make, but it isnt a loss caused  by the swap, although  the swap created the circumstances in which 
G felt it needed to seek  professional advice. Im not persuaded these fees were necessary. 
Legal fees
G says its complaint is unusual, involves  complex circumstances and it needed to engage legal  
representation. 
Lloyds offered £5,676 plus interest because it felt these  costs related  to the preparation of Gs 
consequential loss claim. It didnt offer anything for the other  legal fees because  it thought  these  
related to work the lawyers did for G during the FCA review and in referring the complaint to us, both 
of which it felt shouldnt have required legal assistance.  Participating in the review and using the 
ombudsman are both free. 
I can understand why G engaged  lawyers before the FCA review was announced and why it sought 
legal help to negotiate  a standstill agreement.
I do think G could have pursued its complaint  through the FCA review without legal  and professional 
help. The review was designed so that it wouldnt  require  customers to be represented and it was 
overseen by an independent reviewer. 
G was able to refer a complaint to the ombudsman if it was not satisfied with the review and thats 
ultimately what it did. We offer a free and informal service to resolve  disputes.  So we dont usually  
require a bank to pay a customers legal  costs  incurred  in bringing a complaint to us.
Overall, while  I think some of the costs were justified, I think G could  have complained  to Lloyds  and 
to us without  legal and professional assistance. So I dont think Lloyds actions caused G to pay for 
the legal and professional help that relates to representing it in the FCA review and pursuing the 
complaint with this service.  
I think  Lloyds offer to pay £5,676 plus interest adequately compensates G for the claimable legal 
costs.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I intend to uphold  Gs complaint in part and require Lloyds Bank Plc to 
pay G the following:
The cost of the 2012  advisory  fees;
Ref: DRN198277014£5,676 towards Gs legal costs;
8% simple interest on these losses up to the date of settlement.
I dont intend to make any award  for the other losses claimed.
Greg Barham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1982770