K820x#14complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  Limited (Lloyds) declined his personal  
possessions claim under his contents insurance  policy.
background
Mr E had a car that he parked in the communal parking area for his block of flats. The owner  
of the car (the car finance company) removed the car without telling Mr E. He says he had 
left some possessions in the car, including golf clubs, and these were removed with the car. 
Mr E called Lloyds and enquired about  cover  under  his contents policy.
Lloyds initially declined  the claim because it thought an official body had taken the car, and 
the policy didnt  cover this. It later said it didnt consider the car finance company to be an 
official body and reconsidered  the claim. Lloyds apologised and paid Mr D £75 
compensation for making  this mistake.  
After considering the circumstances  of the loss against the remaining policy terms, Lloyds 
declined the claim  again. It told Mr E the car wasnt parked within the boundary of his home, 
which is a requirement  of the Contents  in outbuildings  and in the open section of the policy.  
Mr E complained that the communal parking area belongs to the council and is designated 
for residents of his block of council flats.  So, he feels this is within the boundary of his home  
and the claim should be paid. 
Mr E brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. She said Lloyds didnt 
do anything wrong  by declining the claim as she didnt consider the communal parking area 
to be within  the boundary  of Mr Es home. 
Mr E disagreed with our investigator  and asked for an ombudsman to issue  a decision.  Mr E 
added that his possessions must have been  away from home  if they were  not deemed  to be 
within the boundary  of his home,  which he has cover  for under a different section of the 
policy.
Mr E is also unhappy as Lloyds have recorded  this as a theft claim,  when  he was only 
checking to see if he had cover. He said he doesnt know if the possessions were  stolen and 
could just be lost. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Given the circumstances of the loss and Mr Es enquiry,  I think  it is reasonable for Lloyds to 
record this as a theft claim. During  a call I had with Mr E, he said he was checking if he had 
cover in the view to making  a claim if he did. Ive also considered that the circumstances 
werent hypothetical and Lloyds would  need  to complete a full claim review to provide Mr E 
with an accurate answer. So, I think Mr E did intend  to make a claim.  
I also think its reasonable for Lloyds to consider this claim as a theft claim.  Mr E said his 
possessions were in the car when it was taken  from the communal parking area by the car 
finance company.  The car finance  company has told Lloyds there was nothing  in the car 
Ref: DRN10980132other than some items  in the glove box, which it will send to Mr E. So, there  remains  the 
possibility that someone  at the car finance  company has taken the items, which  would be 
considered as a theft.  
Lloyds has considered the claim  under  two sections of the policy - the Personal belongings 
away from the home section and the Contents in outbuildings and in the open section. 
I have considered whether Lloyds decision to decline the claim under both sections  was 
reasonable. 
Personal belongings away  from the home
Lloyds didnt think Mr E had a valid claim under this section of the policy because there was 
no force  or violence used  to gain entry to the car, which is a requirement under this section. 
It thought the car finance company had used  a key to gain access  to the car. 
The policy says: 
What we dont cover
Theft or attempted theft of personal  belongings from unattended  vehicles, caravans or 
motorhomes, where:
- There  was no force and violence  used to get into the vehicle   
I think its likely that, as the owner of the vehicle,  the car finance company had a key to 
access the car. The system notes for a call between Lloyds and the car finance company 
also note that Mr E has the spare  key for the car. So, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
think that there was no force or violence used to gain access to the car. 
Contents in outbuildings and in the open
The policy says:
What we cover
Loss of or damage to the contents  in your outbuildings  and in the open
  
By in the open  we mean areas  in the open  within the boundaries of your home including  
gardens, driveways, balconies or patios.
Lloyds declined the claim under this section of the policy because it didnt think  the car was 
parked within  the boundary of Mr Es home.  It said the parking area is communal and a 
specific parking place wasnt part of Mr Es home.  
Ive reviewed photographs of the parking  area and information Mr E sent to us from his local 
council. I dont think this shows that the car was parked within the boundary  of Mr Es home. 
So, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim as this is a requirement under 
the policy.
Ref: DRN10980133Overall, I dont  think Lloyds has done  anything wrong by declining a theft claim under Mr Es 
contents policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint against 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Jamie Sutherland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1098013