K820x#14complaint
Mrs U has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a packaged bank  
account, known  as a Plus account in 2008. 
Mrs U paid a monthly  fee for the Plus account and received several potential benefits in 
return. She wants HSBC  to compensate  her for all the fees she paid.
(HSBC later changed the name  of the account to an Advance  account,  but I have used the 
name Plus  throughout  this decision).
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Us complaint. The adjudicator  didnt 
think that HSBC had mis-sold the Plus account to Mrs U and didnt recommend that it should 
give her any money back. 
Mrs U didnt agree with adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review her 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mrs Us complaint.  Ive 
looked into everything that Mrs U and HSBC have told us or sent us about the case and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
During our investigation into Mrs Us complaint, HSBC sent us information from its records  
which it says shows that prior to taking the Plus account, Mrs U held one of its fee-free  
accounts. HSBCs records about this seem to be reliable  and Mrs U has not disputed  that 
she held such a fee-free  account. So I have taken  the records to be correct. 
The crux of Mrs Us complaint is that in 2008 she says HSBC switched her from the fee-free 
account to the Plus account and started  to charge her fees without her permission. Shes 
told us that at no point did she have a conversation with anyone  from HSBC about (whether 
she) would like a fee-paying account. Shes said that she had no dialogue with HSBC 
about this and received no advice. Shes explained  that she didnt notice she was paying  
fees until 2012 and then thought she had to pay them. 
As Mrs U started to pay fees for her account over a decade ago, neither she nor HSBC have 
been able to send us definitive evidence to show with certainty  exactly what happened.  I 
dont find this surprising,  but it means that I cant tell for sure what took place. Instead,  I have  
assessed the evidence that is available to decide what is most likely to have occurred. 
Firstly, it would have been very unusual for HSBC to change  Mrs Us account and to start to 
charge her fees without her permission. As she had previously held a fee-free account, and 
such accounts were widely available in the UK at the time,  it would have  been  unlikely that 
HSBC could have  misled her into thinking  she had to pay fees for a bank account. 
Ref: DRN16957102HSBC has told us that from 2008 onwards it sent Mrs U various documents  about  the Plus 
account which told her about the fees and about  changes to the potential benefits  that came  
with the account.  Sending such documents is part of the usual  way HSBC managed the Plus 
account for its customers, and I have no reason to think  it did things differently in Mrs Us 
case. So while I accept  that Mrs U may not have noticed the fees every time HSBC 
mentioned them, I dont think that it failed to tell her about them or tried to conceal them from 
her. 
In recent  correspondence, Mrs U has told us that she still believes that HSBC  changed her 
account to a fee-paying one without her permission. She has asked to see proof  that she 
either signed a written  agreement, or gave her permission  over the telephone. 
Unfortunately, HSBC have not been able to send us such definitive proof, but as I mentioned 
above, this is not surprising  given  the length of time which has passed since  it sold the 
account to Mrs U.
I fully accept that Mrs U is doing her best to remember what happened,  but given  all the 
circumstances, I think  its unlikely that HSBC switched her account without her agreement, 
or failed  to meet its responsibility to tell her about  the fees. I think its more likely that HSBC 
gave Mrs U a choice  to keep her fee-free  account  or to change to the Plus account, and she 
chose to change.
With so little firm evidence,  I cant tell if HSBC sold the Plus account to Mrs U face-to-face in 
a meeting, or over the telephone or in some  other  way. However, both HSBC  and Mrs U 
have told us that it didnt advise her to take the account, so I have accepted that it sold the 
account to her an information only basis. This meant that it had to tell her about the 
accounts benefits and fees clearly and fairly so she could decide  if she wanted to buy it for 
the fees she would have  to pay. But HSBC wouldnt have had to check that the account was 
right for Mrs Us financial situation.
In early 2008, when  HSBC sold the Plus account to Mrs U, the account included potential  
banking benefits  such as better interest rates on overdrafts, a reward scheme  for customers  
who paid back certain types of loan on time,  and cheaper withdrawals from cash machines 
abroad than HSBC gave to its customers with fee-free accounts;  and potential non-banking 
benefits such worldwide  travel insurance. Several months later,  HSBC  added car breakdown 
cover to these potential benefits. 
I cant tell how well HSBC explained  the details of these  benefits to Mrs U, but as it was 
trying to sell the account to her, it seems very likely  that it would have told her about them. 
After all, this would have been in its own best interests.  
I understand that Mrs U travelled to Europe and elsewhere, and so may have  found  the 
travel insurance and cheaper  use of overseas cash machines useful. I gather that at around 
the time Mrs U bought  the Plus account  she also took a loan from HSBC and overdrew her 
account quite  regularly. So it seems to me that back in 2008, Mrs U may have found some  of 
the Plus accounts  benefits attractive  for her financial situation. 
Mrs U has told us when she bought the Plus account she already had car breakdown cover,  
so didnt need it from the account. I fully accept  this, but as breakdown cover wasnt one of 
the benefits of the account  when  Mrs U bought it, I dont think it means that HSBC  mis-sold 
the account to her. 
Ref: DRN16957103Mrs U has also said that at times she bought separate travel insurance.  Again, I accept that 
she did this, but as Im satisfied that HSBC probably  told Mrs U about this benefit  when  it 
sold her the account,  I cant  hold it responsible  for her buying  different insurance. 
In summary,  from the evidence I have seen, I cant be sure that HSBC got everything right in 
the way it sold the Plus account to Mrs U. But Im satisfied that its likely that HSBC gave her 
a choice about the account and told her about  its fees. I also think HSBC  probably told Mrs 
U about the accounts main potential benefits.  So I dont think that HSBC mis-sold the Plus 
account to Mrs U.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Us complaint about HSBC UK 
Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1695710