K820x#14Complaint
Im sorry  this complaint  has been with us a while. Mrs C originally complained to us about 
insurances she was sold alongside a vehicle  she purchased in 2005. It wasnt  initially very 
clear what  financial products Mrs C had bought, but we now know  these were Guaranteed 
Asset Protection (GAP) cover and life insurance.
The car was bought through a dealership but Sytner  Group  Limited is responsible for 
answering her complaint.  
To keep  things simple,  Ill therefore refer mainly to Sytner.
Background
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Mrs C disagreed with 
this and its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
I can see Mrs C feels very strongly that she was mis-sold these two types of insurance. And 
Id also like to place  on record  that I certainly dont  doubt she genuinely and honestly feels  
now that both products  were mis-sold to her and were of little use.
Nevertheless, this sale took place in 2005  which is quite a long time ago. Sytner doesnt 
have many records to refer to, but this isnt unreasonable in my view after this length of time. 
Businesses dont need  to keep records indefinitely. Mrs C doesnt have many  records left 
about her purchases  either.
In cases where information is either old or not present, we often have to make decisions 
based on what is more  likely to have happened. It seems to be that Mrs Cs complaint is 
predicated on her being sold the insurances (above) without her ever properly consenting  or 
indeed having  any knowledge about.  She says the costs were  all just wrapped  up in the 
overall monthly cost of the vehicle. 
She makes further points  specifically about the life insurance in particular  being  
unnecessary. Finally, she says she worked on a supply basis and Im assuming she is 
saying this made her an unsuitable person to be sold cover due to potential exclusions in the 
policies she was sold.
As Ive implied, I cant say for sure that Mrs C provided her consent for the GAP and life 
policies because theres simply no evidence left to refer to. But there is, of course, no 
dispute that these were  sold to her. This being the case, I find it very unlikely that the third-
party insurers in each  case wouldnt have sent her details of both the policies. Her main 
point of complaint  is that she didnt even know she had these types of cover  but to agree 
Ref: DRN12952212with this, Id need to think two independent  insurers failed to send her policy information she 
would have been entitled to. Im afraid I find that unlikely. 
Ive also been  sent copies  of a demands  and needs form which  Sytner says would  probably  
have used as part of the sale process. It asks about  what types of insurance cover  
customers might have  or find useful to accompany their car purchase.  Ive seen these forms 
before in similar sales and so I think the concept  of GAP and life cover  would have been at 
least openly discussed with Mrs C. In my experience, businesses often do look for 
opportunities to sell other products alongside new cars, so I think  its likely such  a discussion 
took place here. By having a library  copy of such a form, I think  its likely Sytner  undertook 
such discussions with consumers and I think would have probably done  so in this case.  
Next, I looked at the costs all being  wrapped  up in one payment, meaning the sale process 
was possibly unclear to Mrs C. This might have happened - and her direct debit may have 
been paid like this in one overall  payment. But its just as likely that the overall  payment for 
the car and insurances was taken and split between the parties  involved,  with Sytner taking 
a commission for the introduction. In short, I dont  see that I can place much relevance on 
this issue; it doesnt  add any weight to the mis-sale allegation.
Im very grateful to Mrs C for telling us that she already had life insurance elsewhere.  She 
sent us details of three such policies she already had and her husband seems to have had 
others, independently. But having three  policies is a demonstration that taking out multiple 
forms of life cover isnt uncommon.  The overall cost of both policies  in this case (the GAP  
and life protection) was a relatively moderate  sum and Im afraid I consider just as likely that 
Mrs C decided to top up her life cover  as a sensible precaution when she was buying a new 
car. The GAP insurance covered the writing-off of the car, a somewhat different eventuality.
As far as Mrs Cs employment is concerned, she wasnt sold a PPI policy covering sickness 
or unemployment. Sometimes  PPI policies exclude supply workers like her, but theres  no 
evidence Ive seen  that Mrs C had PPI here, it was just GAP and life protection.
All this means there just isnt anything which supports Mrs Cs allegations of being mis-sold 
these items  without ever agreeing to them.  The amounts  involved were  moderate sums 
covering specific things. There are examples of sale documents  which  tend to show  
discussions about add-on insurances regularly  took place. And I find it unlikely that no 
documentation at all would  have  been sent or given  to Mrs C explaining the type of cover  
she had bought. 
I completely accept that with hindsight Mrs C doesnt feel these products offered her much  
value, but I think  its more likely she agreed  to them at the time and would have certainly 
been able to see they were in place. Had she not wanted them she would have been  at 
liberty to double-check or complain and theres  no evidence she did this.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. And I dont direct Sytner 
Group Limited to do anything to put matters  right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October  2020. 
Ref: DRN12952213Michael Campbell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1295221