K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains about a payment made in error from her account with Bank  of Scotland 
plc.
background
On 28 December 2018 Miss N made an online payment from her Halifax account. 
Immediately following the payment she realised  shed used the wrong  details and contacted 
Halifax.
Halifax looked into it and told Miss N that the account to which  the money had been  sent 
was overdrawn and the money had already been taken by the recipient bank.
On 15 February 2019 the recipient returned £273.20  to Miss N which  was all that was left of 
the money. The recipient offered to repay Miss N the balance at £50 per month  but Miss N 
wasnt happy with this offer.
Miss N is unhappy that Halifax was unable to recover the payment in full. She says shes  
been caused financial hardship as a result. To resolve her complaint she wants a full refund.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said that Halifax had acted in line with its 
procedures when Miss N made it aware  of the payment error.
Miss N didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand what a worrying  time this has been  for Miss N and how disappointed she is that 
not all of her money  was recovered.
Ive looked at what Halifax did when Miss N made it aware of the payment error. I can see 
that Halifax contacted the receiving bank within 2 days and chased the receiving bank  on at 
least two occasions.  
The banks internal process says it has a timescale of 21 days to resolve payment errors, 
which is dependent on receiving a response from the recipient bank. In this case, Im 
satisfied that Halifax  contacted the recipient bank promptly and made reasonable efforts  to 
resolve things within  the timescale. But the recipient bank didnt respond and this caused a 
significant delay  before part of the money  was returned.
In the circumstances Im unable to say that Halifax made an error.  It acted  in line with its 
internal process  and did as much as it could  do. I can see that Halifax wrote to Miss N as 
soon as it because  clear that a full recovery of funds  wasnt  possible. It also gave  Miss N 
some options on what she could do next,  which I think  was helpful.
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN10726892my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1072689