K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim made on
their travel insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C travelled  abroad in December  2018. A few days into that trip Mr C required
medical attention,  and was admitted to hospital.  Whilst there, tests revealed  that he had a
meningioma and small bleed on the brain. It was subsequently concluded that the
meningioma was asymptomatic  and the ailments Mr C was experiencing were unrelated to
that. He was discharged but didnt  immediately recover from his symptoms, and remained
unwell for some time after.
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim on their policy to cover  the hospital / medical costs. That claim
was ultimately declined by IPA as it concluded  the symptoms that Mr C was hospitalised for,
requiring treatment, were  pre-existing.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs C complained to us. Our investigator concluded that IPA had unfairly
declined the claim  so upheld the complaint. She recommended IPA to pay the claim subject
to the other terms of the policy and pay Mr and Mrs C £150 for trouble and upset.
IPA disagreed so Mr and Mrs Cs complaint was passed to me to look at everything
afresh. I issued my provisional  decision in January 2020 explaining why I wasnt  intending to 
uphold their complaint.  I invited both parties  for their comments. IPA replied, accepting my 
provisional findings. Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with my provisional decision and raised 
several points in reply, including:
 his dizziness wasnt the reason why he was taken to hospital and had nothing  to do 
with his vertigo; he was taken to hospital because  hed been vomiting, had a 
temperature and weak muscles;
 the notes of the doctor who he saw soon  after he was admitted to hospital arent 
correct; the notes from the paramedics  would  be more  accurate. Mrs C says the 
doctor who saw Mr C wasnt  interested in him and the examination they carried out 
was rushed.
Our investigator asked  IPA for the paramedic notes for when Mr C was taken  to hospital. It 
replied saying it had sent all of the medical  information to us, it didnt receive the paramedic 
notes and wouldnt be able to obtain them.
Mr C said hed endeavour to get a medical report from the paramedics and Mrs C had 
agreed to provide an affidavit explaining why she called for medical help.
Mr C was asked to provide that information  by 6 February 2020. Having not received a reply, 
on 7 February 2020, our investigator wrote  to Mr C explaining  that having  received no further 
information from him (or Mrs C) and no further request for an extension,  their complaint had 
now been referred back to me to decide. 
Mr and Mrs C havent replied to that communication so I need to make a decision  based  on 
all the available  information.
Ref: DRN15863572my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont uphold  it for the 
same reasons set out in my provisional decision  attached - which  forms part of, this, my 
final decision.
Im satisfied IPAs decision to decline Mr and Mrs Cs claim on the basis that the treatment 
he received whilst abroad related to a pre-existing medical condition is fair and reasonable.
Ive taken on board all the points Mr and Mrs C raised  in response to my provisional decision  
but they dont  change  my mind because:
As Ive said in my provisional decision, although  the symptoms  Mr C had shortly  
before travel (dizziness, sweating  and shortness of breath)  might not have related to 
his vertigo, they had been present and Mr C had been  concerned  enough to report  
them to his GP the day before he travelled  albeit  that wasnt  the reason hed made  
the appointment to see the GP. And whilst  theres no mention of Mr C feeling 
nauseas  or having vomited - before  he travelled abroad, the GP notes support that 
Mr C had a majority of the same symptoms hed experienced less than week  later (as 
set out in the initial report),  after flying abroad, for which he was hospitalised.
the initial hospital report doesnt  reflect Mr C had a temperature.  It expressly says 
Mr C had no fever,  chills,  haemoptysis or hematemesis. Nor does it reflect that 
He had weak muscles. They say the examination wasnt thorough  and the initial 
hospital report is inaccurate. However, based on all the available evidence, I dont 
think IPA has unreasonably  placed more  weight on the contents  of that report  when 
taking the decision  to decline the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept  or reject  my decision  before 27 March 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15863573Copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim made  on
their travel insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C travelled abroad  in December  2018. A few days into that trip Mr C required
medical attention, and was admitted to hospital. Whilst there, tests revealed  that he had a
meningioma and small  bleed  on the brain. It was subsequently concluded that the
meningioma was asymptomatic and the ailments  Mr C was experiencing were  unrelated to
that. He was discharged  but didnt immediately  recover from his symptoms, and remained
unwell for some time after.
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim on their policy  to cover the hospital / medical costs.  That claim
was ultimately declined by IPA as it concluded the symptoms that Mr C was hospitalised  for,
requiring treatment, were pre-existing.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs C complained  to us. Our investigator concluded  that IPA had unfairly
declined the claim so upheld the complaint. She recommended IPA to pay the claim  subject
to the other terms of the policy and pay Mr and Mrs C £150 for trouble and upset.
IPA disagrees so Mr and Mrs Cs complaint has been passed to me to look at everything
afresh and make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im not planning to
uphold it. I know Mr and Mrs C will be very disappointed  with this but Im not currently
satisfied IPA has unfairly declined the claim. Ill explain  why.
IPA has a duty to handle claims  made on the policy promptly  and fairly. And it mustnt
unreasonably decline a claim.
The policy doesnt cover claims relating to pre-existing  medical conditions  and theyre
defined as:
any past or current Medical Condition that, during the 2 years  prior to
any Trip has given rise to symptoms or for which any form of treatment or
prescribed medication,  medical consultation, Investigation  or follow-up / check-up
has been required or received
Im not a medical expert so Ive relied  on the medical evidence when considering  whether
IPA has acted  fairly and reasonably when  declining  the claim.
The initial report from the hospital dated 19 December  2018 (the initial report) details  Mr Cs
chief complaint as dizziness and nausea.
Mr C says that wasnt the reason why he sought medical  assistance. He says he was feeling
dizzy and sick when he arrived at the hospital because of the way hed been transported
which aggravated his vertigo. Mr C says he had been feeling well at the start of his trip but
on the fourth day he experienced hallucinations,  was sweating profusely and was unable to
open his eyes in the morning.  He also says hed vomited, had a high temperature, was
unable to get out of bed and his joints and muscles were aching.
Ref: DRN15863574However, thats not entirely consistent with whats reflected  in the initial  report  which says he
presented to the (emergency room) yesterday  with a 24-hour  history of sudden onset of
dizziness, nausea, vomiting and feeling off balance  with unsteady gait and that he was
unable to tolerate oral intake due to his underlying  nauseasome mild shortness of breath
but no fever, chills, haemoptysis or hematemesis. 
So, theres no mention of any hallucinations, aching muscles or joints - which I wouldve expected Mr 
C (or Mrs C on his behalf) to have  reported  at the time and reflected in the initial report   and its said 
he didnt have  a fever.
I dont doubt Mr C was unwell and it mustve been a very worrying time for him and Mrs C,
particularly given that scans identified a small  bleed on the brain  and meningioma  which
was later advised  to be asymptomatic.
However, the crux of this complaint is whether IPA has fairly declined the claim on the basis
that treatment he received  whilst abroad was for a pre-existing medical condition.
The day before travelling abroad Mr C visited his GP. Mr C says he made  this appointment
to check  that he was fit to travel as hed suffered  a chest infection which he was prescribed
anti-biotics for a few weeks prior. However, the GP notes from that day also reflect Mr C had
a dizzy,  sweating episode  yesterday  and he felt short of breath.
Although Ive seen medical evidence that Mr C did have a history of suffering from recurrent
dizzy spells and motion  sickness  and had been  diagnosed with vertigo, his GP has said in a
letter to (Mr C) dated September 2019 that when  he assessed him the day before he was
due to travel:
I was determining whether there was any other significant medical condition  that
would prevent  your travel plans. I was confident that there  was no evidence of a new
condition or any infectious  condition that would  affect your health.
From memory and from my notes vertigo was not how you presented, as you say this
is something you have been used to experiencing  for the past 4 years and would not
have concerned you enough  to visit our surgery.
So, although  the symptoms  Mr C had shortly before travel (dizziness, sweating and
shortness of breath) might not have related to his vertigo, they had been present and Mr C
had been concerned  enough  to report them  to his GP. So whilst I accept theres no mention
of Mr C feeling nauseas  or having vomited - before he travelled abroad, the GP notes
support that Mr C had a majority of the same symptoms hed experienced  less than week
later (as set out in the initial  report), after flying abroad. As such, Im currently satisfied that
IPA hasnt unfairly linked these medical issues together and nor has it unreasonably
concluded that the treatment  he needed whilst abroad was for a medical condition that was
pre-existing, as defined by the policy.
When making this finding,  Ive taken on board all of Mr Cs other comments  including what
he says about believing he had a virus  which he might have  contracted during the flight. Of
course, thats possible  but Im not currently persuaded that the medical evidence  supports
that he had a virus  or if he did, that symptoms of the virus didnt pre-date the trip.
my provisional  decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1586357