K820x#14Complaint
Mrs K complains that Zurich Assurance unfairly declined a claim made  under her term 
assurance policy and that it provided  a poor service.
Background
Mrs K took out a term assurance policy with Zurich  in September 2010. It provided an initial  
benefit of £81,999 which decreased over the 25 year term. The benefit would be payable if 
Mrs K passed away or if she met the criteria  of a listed  critical illness.
In 2015 Mrs K made a claim under the policy for critical illness  benefit  as she believed she 
met the policy definition  of total permanent disability (TPD). Zurich declined  the claim as it 
didnt think Mrs K met the policy definition.
Mrs K submitted a further claim in 2017  after a deterioration in her health. Zurich  arranged 
for Mrs K to see an independent physiotherapist so they could assess her physical 
limitations. After receiving the report Zurich declined the claim again  Mrs K appealed the 
decision and asked  Zurich  to contact her consultant for further  information  about her 
condition. In March  2018, after receiving medical  information from Mrs Ks consultant,  Zurich  
declined the claim  again. It said in order for the benefit to be paid, Mrs K had to be 
irreversibly unable to carry out three of six listed tasks without the assistance  of someone 
else. It said the evidence  didnt support that Mrs K met this requirement.
Mrs K referred her complaint to our service. She said the physiotherapists report  wasnt  an 
accurate reflection of her limitations. She said shed  been awarded the highest level of 
personal independence payment (PIP) for mobility and was severely debilitated by her 
illnesses. Mrs K said she needed assistance from her children to perform  at least five of the 
six tasks, so she felt she met the policy definition of TPD.  Mrs K also said shed received a 
poor service from Zurich throughout, including when  she first made the claim in 2015 and 
more recently when shed made a subject access request  (SAR).
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think Zurichs decision  to decline the 
claim in 2017 and 2018 was unfair.  He thought  it was reasonable for Zurich  to rely on the 
observations of the physiotherapist  and the opinion  of Mrs Ks consultant. Overall, he wasnt  
persuaded that the available evidence showed  Mrs K met the TPD definition.
The investigator said he couldnt look at the service provided by Zurich when the claim was 
initially declined in 2015 as this had been  addressed in a final response  letter  dated 
14 November 2016. As Mrs K hadnt referred  her concerns about this to our service  within  
six months of the letter, it had been  referred to us too late. The investigator wasnt  
persuaded that Zurich had provided a poor service  in respect of the claims made  in 2017 
and 2018. He also said Mrs K should  refer her concerns  to the Information Commissioners  
Office (ICO) if she was unhappy with the SAR.
Mrs K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.  She didnt think  
it was fair for Zurich to ask her consultant  about the limitations with her mobility  as he only 
treated her ulcerative colitis, so wouldnt  know how the other medical  conditions  affected her.
Ref: DRN11611192My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it, for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator. I know this will come as a great disappointment 
to Mrs K and this leaves  her in a difficult position, but I dont think Zurich  has treated her 
unfairly, Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, it isnt because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about  it, but because I dont  think I need  to comment  on it to reach what  I think is 
the fair outcome.
Declined claim
Under the terms of Mrs Ks policy, the critical illness benefit will be paid if Mrs K meets  the 
following definition of TPD:
In our reasonable opinion, you are, as a result  of illness or accident  before your 65th 
birthday, irreversibly unable to do the things in three  of the six following categories without 
the assistance of someone else.
I. Personal hygiene   washing or bathing  to the extent needed  to maintain personal 
cleanliness.
II. Dressing  putting on and taking off all necessary clothes.
III. Mobility  moving from one room to another or getting in and out of a bed or chair.
IV. Eating and drinking  eating  and drinking once food and drink has been made 
available.
V. Using the lavatory  getting on and off the lavatory and maintaining  personal  
hygiene.
VI. Continence  controlling bowel and bladder  functions.
Mrs K has said that she feels she is unable to do at least five of these tasks, so for 
completeness Ive considered whether the available evidence demonstrates she is 
irreversibly unable to do any of the tasks.  Mrs K has provided some medical evidence  that 
post-dates Zurichs decision to decline the claim in March  2018. I havent considered this as 
it wasnt available to Zurich when it made  its decision, and my role here is to decide whether 
that decision was fair.
Personal hygiene
Mrs K has said that she requires help from her children to get into the shower and wash  as 
its too difficult and exhausting for her to do this alone. In a letter  dated 5 July 2017, Mrs Ks 
GP, Dr R, commented that Mrs K is very debilitated  by her medical problems and is 
dependent on her children  for help around  the house. But Dr R said Zurich  should carry out 
its own assessment of Mrs Ks physical  abilities. So, Zurich asked Ms B (a physiotherapist)  
to carry out an assessment at Mrs Ks home.
Mrs K has said that the company Ms B works for has a relationship  with Zurich so her report 
cannot be considered to be independent.  But I dont think this is a reasonable assumption.  
Whilst the company  appears to have a client relationship with Zurich,  Ms B doesnt work for 
Zurich so Im satisfied her report can be considered independent of it.
Ref: DRN11611193In her report of 19 August  2017 Ms B reported  that Mrs K had no upper limb impairment  and 
was able to get into a car unaided, as well as rise from a chair and walk for a short  distance 
with the use of a stick. For this reason,  she didnt  see any reason why Mrs K wouldnt  be 
able to get into the shower and wash herself.
I think its reasonable for Zurich to rely on Ms Bs opinion  here as it is derived from her direct 
observations and Mrs Ks GP didnt specifically comment on whether she could get into the 
shower and wash  herself alone. Furthermore, Mrs K has said she requires help from her 
children to do this because its difficult without their help, but this isnt enough  to say Mrs K 
cant do this at all, which is what the policy definition requires.
Dressing
Mrs K also says she needs help with dressing  due to pain in her legs. But for the same 
reasons given above, Ms B thought  Mrs K would be capable of this. She didnt think Mrs Ks 
reported limitations with dressing herself were consistent with how she observed Mrs K 
move. I appreciate  that Mrs K may find dressing difficult to do without help, but I havent  
seen enough evidence from her doctors to say that she was unable  to perform  this task 
without help from another person.
Mobility
It isnt in dispute that Mrs Ks medical  conditions affect her mobility, but whilst Mrs K is 
restricted to walking very short distances and uses a stick, she is able to move  from one 
room to another. Ms B also noted in her report that she observed  Mrs K getting  out of her 
chair without the help of another  person. So, I think its fair to say Mrs K was able to perform 
this task.
Eating and drinking
Although it seems Mrs K requires help from her children to prepare food, she hasnt said that 
she cant eat or drink  by herself once  food has been made available  to her. So I havent  
considered Mrs Ks ability to perform  this task further.
Using the lavatory
Mrs K says she needs help with this, again due to pain in her legs and muscle weakness.  
But in her report Ms B noted that shed observed Mrs K rise from a low settee without help 
from anyone else. So, she thought Mrs K would be able to get on and off the lavatory and 
maintain her personal  hygiene as shes able to use her hands. I dont think that was an 
unreasonable conclusion and I havent seen any other medical evidence from the time that 
supports Mrs Ks assertion that she cant do this without help from someone  else. So, I think  
its fair to say that Mrs K was able to perform this task.
Ref: DRN11611194Continence
Ive reviewed the evidence provided,  which includes comments  from Dr M, Mrs Ks 
consultant. Dr M says that Mrs Ks ulcerative colitis  is relapsing  and remitting,  which means  
that she has intermittent  periods  where  her symptoms are severe that she could be 
considered as incontinent during these  periods.  However, he also said that during remission,  
symptoms are usually well-controlled. I have also seen reference  to Mrs K suffering 
separately with stress incontinence, for which she is prescribed incontinence pads.
I think its fair to say that when Mrs K is experiencing a flare up of her symptoms she can be 
considered incontinent and so would meet this part of the definition.  But I dont think this 
alone demonstrates that the claim is payable.
Mrs K has commented that it was unreasonable to ask Dr M about her limitations in respect 
of performing the other tasks  as he only treats her ulcerative colitis. But I dont  think  it was 
unreasonable for Zurich to ask Dr M about  this as he could have some insight into her 
physical limitations  based  on what he had observed. In any event, Im satisfied that Zurich 
considered all of the available  evidence  to reach  its decision rather  than relying on the 
opinion of particular  doctors. 
Overall, I dont  think Zurichs decision to decline the claim was unreasonable. I dont doubt 
that Mrs K is very debilitated by her illness and it has a huge  effect  on her day to day life. 
I also appreciate how frustrated she is about  being  unable to work  and that she has to rely 
on her childrens support.  Ive taken into account that Mrs K is in receipt  of PIP at the highest 
rate for mobility, but Mrs Ks eligibility  for PIP is assessed on different criteria. The policy  
definition of TPD is very specific and requires an extremely limited  ability  to perform 
everyday tasks without  the help of another person. I can see Mrs K may have difficulty 
performing some of the listed tasks or it may cause  her discomfort  to do so. But I dont think 
the available  evidence from Mrs Ks doctors shows she is irreversibly unable  to perform  
three or more of the tasks  without help from someone else.
Customer service
As the investigator  explained, Ms Bs complaint about the service provided  when  she made 
her original claim isnt something I can consider. This is because Zurich addressed this in a 
final response letter dated 14 November 2016. This letter gave Mrs K six months  to refer her 
concerns to our service if she remained unhappy.  As Mrs K didnt contacted our service  until 
September 2018, and as Zurich hadnt  consented  to our service considering the complaint, it 
had been referred  to our service too late under our rules.
Ive reviewed the service  provided to Mrs K after she made  her second claim in 2017.  The 
investigator has addressed this in detail in his opinion letter, so Im not going to repeat this in 
the same  detail here. But overall, Im satisfied that Zurich kept Mrs K updated whilst the 
claim was being considered and that any delays were  the result  of Zurich waiting for medical 
information rather than it causing the delays. And I think  the claims decisions  were  made 
promptly once the relevant  information  became available.
I can see that Mrs K was given an incorrect phone number to call in relation to a SAR shed 
made which undoubtedly caused her frustration. But I think Zurich offered fair compensation 
for this in a final response letter dated 27 July 2018. Im aware Mrs K also has concerns 
about the information provided to her after she made the SAR  she felt this was incomplete. 
This was also addressed  in the final response  letter. I havent considered this further as it is 
Ref: DRN11611195for the ICO to determine whether or not a business has complied with its obligations under 
data protection  legislation.  If Mrs K remains unhappy about this she can refer her concerns 
to the ICO.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs K but having considered all of the evidence, I dont think  Zurich  
has treated her unfairly.  If in the future  Mrs K feels that her physical health has deteriorated 
further and that she meets the TPD criteria  she should ask Zurich  to reconsider the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1161119