K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) has unfairly 
added a default to his credit file.
background
Mr B borrowed from Satsuma in June and August 2015. He faced  difficulties repaying  both 
loans and only made token repayments on each for a considerable period of time. But both 
loans have now been fully repaid.
Satsuma says that it defaulted one of the loan accounts in March  2016. But, due to a 
processing error, that default wasnt added to Mr Bs credit  file until 2018. Satsuma says that 
it wrote  to Mr B in October 2015 about his arrears, and provided him with notice of its intent 
to default the account in February  2016. 
Mr B says that he didnt  receive either letter.  And he says that he had regular contact with 
Satsuma throughout  2016 and was not given any indication that his account had been 
defaulted. He has asked for the default  to be removed from his credit file.
After considering Mr Bs complaint Satsuma acknowledged that it had failed to apply the 
default to the credit  file in a timely manner. It reduced Mr Bs outstanding balance by £50 by 
way of an apology.  But Satsuma didnt think it had been wrong  to issue  the default and 
record it on the credit file.
Mr Bs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  Given that Satsuma had 
failed to provide  her with any supporting evidence about the default she wasnt  able to say 
that it had been added fairly. So she asked Satsuma to remove  the default from Mr Bs credit 
file. Satsuma didnt  agree with that assessment and belatedly has provided us with some  
further information about the letters it says it sent to Mr B.
Since the complaint hasnt been  resolved  informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process. If Mr B accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  during the time Mr B had the loans.
This complaint isnt that the loans shouldnt have been given  to Mr B. So in this decision I am 
not considering  whether Satsuma lent to him in a responsible manner. I am only considering 
whether it was reasonable for Satsuma to apply a default to Mr Bs loan account,  and 
whether he was given  appropriate notice before that default  was applied.
Ref: DRN12647742It seems  clear  that Satsuma  didnt apply the default to Mr Bs credit  file when it should have 
done. But the default it has now applied  has been dated correctly  and so wont affect Mr Bs 
credit record  for any longer than it would have done  if it had been  applied at the time. If 
anything the impact on Mr Bs credit  record has been reduced   for two years that default 
wouldnt have appeared on any credit searches at all. So I dont think  Mr B has lost out as a 
result of the delay in applying the default, and I think that the compensation Satsuma has 
already given to him (by reducing his outstanding balance) is reasonable.
But that isnt the main  issue that I need to decide here. The crux of this complaint is whether 
it was reasonable  for Satsuma to have  defaulted  Mr Bs account  at all.
As I said earlier,  Mr B took two loans from Satsuma in 2015.  At the time the default  was 
applied in 2016 it doesnt seem to me that either loan was being repaid by Mr B in line with 
his original agreement. There seems  to be little, if any, difference in how Mr B was managing 
those accounts.  So the fact that a default was only applied to one of the accounts gives me 
concerns about  the process that Satsuma followed.
Satsuma has said that it no longer holds copies of the actual letters that were  sent to Mr B in 
October 2015 and February 2016. But it has recently provided us with copies  of the 
templates it says the letters  were based  on. And it has given us an extract from its systems 
that it says shows the letters were  sent to Mr B. But the information  I have seen  doesnt  tell 
me where  the letters were sent  it might be for example that they were  incorrectly  
addressed. And of course  Mr B says that the letters werent received by him.
I would generally  expect to see a default  applied to an account when the relationship  
between a lender  and the consumer has irretrievably broken down. So normally  wed see a 
borrower failing to engage with any attempts by the lender to get in touch, and ignoring any 
requests for repayment. But that isnt what appears to have happened here.
I can see that throughout the time he was repaying  both loans Mr B was in regular 
telephone, email, and SMS contact with Satsuma.  He agreed token payments and was 
making these, across both loans,  on a monthly  basis. It is of course true that Mr B missed 
some of those repayments. But that didnt lead to him failing to engage  with Satsuma at any 
stage. He would usually call almost immediately to either explain why the payment had been 
missed and/or to make an additional  repayment.
From the notes that Satsuma made of its conversations with Mr B during 2016 there doesnt 
appear to be any mention  that it was intending  to, or indeed  had, defaulted his account. And 
I can see that on a number of occasions, when Mr B was calling about a missed payment, 
Satsuma recorded  that it had advised Mr B about the effect  on their credit  file. But it doesnt  
seem that conversation  mentioned the rather important effect that already having a defaulted  
account would have on Mr Bs credit  file.
Mr B has told us that he was very aware  of the impact a defaulted account  would  have on 
his credit file. He says that if Satsuma had made him aware of its intentions, either by letter 
or in the very regular phone conversations he was having, he would have borrowed money 
from family to ensure  that the debt was repaid. I have no reason to doubt  what  Mr B has 
said.
Ref: DRN12647743So having  carefully considered the evidence I have  seen I am not persuaded that Satsuma 
did enough to make sure Mr B was aware of the actions it intended to take in defaulting one 
of his accounts. I am concerned that information doesnt appear to have  been  available to, or 
at the least shared by, the Satsuma  staff that Mr B spoke with on a number of occasions 
during 2016. And those concerns are heightened  by Satsumas acknowledgement that a 
processing error meant that it failed  to add the default to Mr Bs credit file for almost two 
years. So I cannot  say it was fair for Satsuma to add this default to Mr Bs credit  file. The 
default should be removed and the credit file amended to reflect that Mr Bs account  was 
subject to an arrangement  to pay agreement and subsequently has been fully repaid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct  Provident Personal Credit 
Limited to make the amendments to Mr Bs credit file that I have detailed above  within  
28 days of his acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1264774