K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Ms W was given  five loans by Sunny between December 2016 and March 2017.  Each of the 
first four loans was due to be repaid in six monthly  instalments; the final loan was due to be 
repaid in 24 weekly instalments. Ms W generally had more  than one loan outstanding at any 
time  by the end of her borrowing she had four loans outstanding at the same  time. Ms W 
appears to have faced  some problems repaying her last four loans but all of her loans  have 
now been fully repaid.  A summary  of her borrowing from Sunny is shown below.
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 07/12/2016 21/03/2017 £    150
2 02/01/2017 25/01/2018 £    300
3 06/01/2017 23/01/2018 £    100
4 28/01/2017 25/01/2018 £    100
5 21/03/2017 25/01/2018 £    200
Ms Ws complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think  Sunny had 
been wrong to give the first two loans  to Ms W. But he didnt think Sunny should have 
agreed to lend the remaining loans.  So he asked Sunny to pay Ms W some  compensation.
Sunny didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Ms W accepts my decision it is legally  binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Ms W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN14648762the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Ms W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ws complaint.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Ms W. It asked her for details of her income,  and her 
normal expenditure. And it checked  her credit  file before agreeing  the loans. Ive seen a 
summary of those checks and I dont  think they showed anything  that should  have caused 
additional concerns to Sunny.
As I mentioned earlier each of Ms Ws loans was repayable over a six month  period. So the 
amounts that Ms W needed to repay each time were smaller  than if shed  taken a normal 
payday loan. But of course she was committing to making those repayments over a far 
longer period. And generally Ms W had a number  of loans from Sunny outstanding at the 
same time. So Ive needed to consider the total amount that Ms W needed to repay to Sunny 
each month.
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing  the first two loans were proportionate. The 
amounts that Ms W needed to repay appeared affordable when compared with the 
disposable income shed declared.  Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent 
about Ms Ws circumstances  at the time,  and her borrowing history with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask her for the amount of information that 
would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable before agreeing the first two loans.  
When Ms W asked for her third loan, loans 1 and 2 were still very much outstanding. And the 
third loan was taken just four days after the second  loan had been  taken.  So Ms W would 
need to make repayments on three  loans at the same time. The monthly income that Ms W 
declared to Sunny was just £600.  So the combined repayment she would need to make  
Ref: DRN14648763would take a significant proportion of that income,  before even  considering the normal living 
costs that Ms W would need  to pay. So I dont  think it was reasonable for Sunny to decide it 
was likely that Ms W would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner.
And I think the same applies  to the next two loans that Ms W took.  When  she borrowed 
loan 4 Ms W was still making repayments on her first three  loans. And Ms W then repaid 
loan 1 on the same day that she asked for loan 5. As before I dont think it was reasonable 
for Sunny to decide that Ms W was likely to be able to repay  these loans in a sustainable 
manner.
I have taken into account that Ms W said her monthly income had increased to £1,300 when 
she asked for loan 5. I think  Sunny should  have been suspicious of such  a large increase in 
the space of just two months. I think if Sunny was relying on that information  it should have 
taken steps to independently  check the true state of Ms Ws finances. And had it done so it 
would have seen,  as I have from Ms Ws bank  statements, that there was no material  
change in her income between loans 4 and 5.
So I dont  think it was reasonable  for Sunny to agree to give loans 3 to 5 to Ms W. Sunny 
needs to pay her some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Ms W after,  and including,  the loan that 
she took on 6 January  2017 (loan 3). So for each of those loans Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Ms W on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Ms Ws credit file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Ms Ws complaint and direct Elevate Credit  
International Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1464876