K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains because  U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  altered  the terms and conditions  of 
his travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr M holds  a travel insurance  policy, provided by UKI, as a benefit  of his bank account.
Mr M had free travel  insurance cover with an upper age limit of 75. Any policyholders aged
75 years  or over would have to purchase  an age upgrade from UKI in order  to be eligible to
make a claim.
In October  2018, Mr M was told the terms and conditions  of his policy would be changing
from 3 January 2019. These changes meant a policyholder  aged  70 or older would have to
buy an age upgrade, and the cost of this age upgrade would increase from £50 to £65.
Mr M complained to his bank, saying the original  contract he had entered into was binding
and he wanted  the original terms reinstated.  The bank sent Mr M a final response letter but
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint, but Mr M didnt agree so the case was 
passed to me. I made my provisional decision about Mr Ms complaint in May 2020. In it, I 
said:
Mr M agreed with his bank in 2012 that, in return for making  certain minimum deposits into
his account, hed receive the benefit of a travel insurance policy  providing free cover for
policyholders up to a certain age.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ms contract  with his bank for his account say:
3.4 The benefits  and services applicable to your account may be provided to you by
external product providers and insurers. In such cases your agreement  for those
services will be with the relevant provider  or insurer
3.5 Where there are additional terms and conditions  applicable to the benefits and
services you will be provided with them. The benefit or service  will be offered subject
to those terms and conditions.
So, the contract being complained about here isnt Mr Ms agreement with his bank for his
account, its the terms and conditions of his travel insurance contract  with UKI.
UKI, and not the bank, is the provider of Mr Ms travel insurance policy. This means UKI is
the business responsible  for deciding  what level of cover it is prepared to offer its
policyholders and UKI is the business  responsible  for deciding  what, if any, extra premium is
payable by a policyholder  to obtain  additional cover.  So, Mr Ms complaint which  is being
addressed in this provisional decision needs to be directed against UKI rather  than the bank.
I understand Mr M believes he entered into a long-term agreement to be provided  with free
travel insurance until he reached the age of 75, but this isnt the case.  The contract Mr M
entered into was to pay a minimum sum of money into his bank account monthly, in return
for free travel insurance provided by UKI. However, the contract  with UKI wasnt one of
Ref: DRN16790592unlimited duration and UKI has no obligation to honour the terms of the original agreement
indefinitely.
Travel insurance policies like the one Mr M holds generally operate as rolling  contracts,
which renew monthly on payment of any relevant account fees or compliance with a
minimum deposit requirement.
In order to maintain  the benefit  of travel insurance cover, Mr M is required to deposit at least
£750 per month into his bank account  and UKI then reviews eligibility  every  year to ensure
he meets  this criteria.
The July 2017  insurance certificate provided  by Mr M further demonstrates how policies like
this work. Under the heading Automatic  Renewal, the certificate says:
Keep crediting  with at least £750  each month  and meet the other terms listed
in your policy document to benefit  from  Travel  Cover  Well write to you again
next year to let you know if your cover will be extended.
The insurance certificate shows a cover  end date of December 2018, so this is the end date
of the contract  Mr M held for that year. UKI was not bound to agree to cover Mr M on the
same terms  after that date.
Ive seen a copy  of the terms and conditions of Mr Ms travel  insurance policy  which were in
force in 2012.  These give Mr M the right to cancel  the policy  at any time. The terms also give
UKI the right to amend  Mr Ms contract. The policy says:
From time to time it may be necessary to alter your  Travel  Cover policy  other than
when you have requested a change  in cover. When this situation  arises you will be
advised accordingly. Any such alteration will only apply to trips booked by you from
the time of receipt of that advice or some other future specified date
I think it would be fair for UKI to give Mr M reasonable notice of any intention  to amend the
terms. Mr M was notified in October 2018  that his policy terms would be changing from 
3 January 2019, but that the changes for those aged  70 to 74 would only apply to holidays
booked on or after that date. So, I think Mr M was given reasonable notice of a change in
cover which didnt apply  to previously booked trips and I think this was in line with the terms
and conditions of his contract  with UKI.
I can understand why Mr M is unhappy that the terms of cover have changed from when he
first received  the travel  insurance benefit.  But there was never any guarantee that the terms
of this cover  would remain the same indefinitely. Overall, I dont think  UKI acted incorrectly
by making changes to Mr Ms policy.
Turning to the actual changes UKI made, I appreciate Mr M says the cost of an age upgrade
equates to £325 over a 5 year period. But its up to an insurer to decide what level of risk it is
prepared to cover under  a policy and an insurer is also entitled to decide what  price it wishes
to charge for any upgrades,  taking into account  considerations such  as business  operating
costs and potential  exposure to claims.  Its not for this service to tell an insurer  what  risks it
should cover  or how much it should charge, but Id expect UKI to approach these issues
fairly and to treat customers in similar  situations in the same way.
UKI has provided evidence to show it made  the decision  to lower the upper age limit of
Ref: DRN16790593Mr Ms policy based on relevant data showing  age as a factor in the frequency  and value of
claims. UKI used this data to assess the likelihood of people in particular age brackets
making claims. So, Im satisfied there  was a risk-based reason  behind UKIs decision to
make this change to Mr Ms policy.
Im satisfied UKI also used relevant claims data to inform its decision to increase the price  of
the upgrade. The same charge applies to all customers in the same  situation as Mr M, so I
dont think UKI has treated Mr M unfairly.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M, but I dont intend  to recommend that UKI should do anything
further.
UKI accepted my provisional decision but Mr M didnt. Mr M says he doesnt  have  a dispute 
with UKI and that his complaint is about his bank,  who broke  its contract with him. Mr M feels  
the original terms and conditions of his travel insurance policy should be honoured,  and that 
only new members or policyholders should  be subject to the different provisions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mr Ms additional  comments, but I wont be changing my provisional  
decision. 
Mr Ms bank isnt the provider of his travel insurance  policy   UKI is. Mr Ms contract with his 
bank for his account makes it clear that Mr M holds a separate  contract with the insurance 
provider for any insurance benefits. UKI is therefore  the business  responsible  for deciding  
what is and isnt covered  under Mr Ms travel  insurance policy, and UKI is under no 
obligation to indefinitely honour the original terms. 
I dont think UKI has acted unfairly  or unreasonably in this case.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1679059