K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
Moneybarn No 1 Limited.
background
In April 2017 Mr J was supplied with a second hand  car and entered  into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn.
Within the first two weeks Mr J experienced issues with the transmission going into limp 
mode. Mr J returned the car to the garage that changed the gearbox oil and filter.  Mr J says 
that this resolved the issue for a while but that it returned intermittently. By August 2017  Mr J 
began to experience further issues including a leak which  caused  the rear drivers side carpet  
to become wet and a banging noise coming  from the engine.
When Mr J complained to Moneybarn it contacted the supplying dealer who arranged for an 
independent inspection.
The inspection was carried out in September 2017  and concluded  that the issues with the 
engine were as a result of the car being  driven with insufficient oil.
In its final response Moneybarn said there was no evidence that the car had a fault at the 
point of supply.  It said the faults were as a result of poor maintenance.
Mr J wasnt happy with Moneybarns response  so he complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  was no evidence  that the 
gearbox issue or the engine issue were inherent faults at the point of supply.
Mr J didnt agree. He said the inspection report wasnt  proof  that there was insufficient oil. 
He also said that if there  had been insufficient  oil the warning light on the dashboard would 
have been illuminated. Mr J disputed that he had covered approximately  8000 miles and 
said he had only covered approximately 5000 miles.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Moneybarn  has supplied the car under  a hire purchase agreement theres an 
implied term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if 
they are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into account all of the 
relevant circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid. I would  expect a second  hand  car to have a degree  of wear and tear. So in 
order to uphold the complaint I would need  to be satisfied that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply due to an inherent defect.
Mr J and Moneybarn disagree about  whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision I need  to look at the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probability, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN15319912Mr J first experienced issues with the transmission going into limp mode  within 2 weeks  of 
the point of supply. He returned the car to the garage that changed the gearbox oil and the 
filter. This resolved the problem temporarily but it returned intermittently.
Theres no evidence to show  what investigations  were undertaken by the garage that 
changed the gearbox oil and filter. And theres  nothing to suggest what might have caused 
the problem. The independent investigation  carried out in September  2017 doesnt mention 
the transmission  issue at all. It looks as if Mr J has been able to drive  the car despite the 
transmission issue, because hes covered several thousand miles. On the available  
evidence there isnt sufficient evidence for me to conclude that the transmission issue  was a 
fault which was present  or developing at the point of supply.
The engine noise  issue  first arose  in August 2017.  The independent inspection identified  the 
noise and suggested that it might  be caused  by faulty  hydraulic lifters  or a worn camshaft. 
The independent inspection also said that the car had insufficient oil in the sump which had 
the potential to cause damage  to the engine and the gearbox. The inspection said that the 
fact that the car had covered several  thousand  miles since the point of supply pointed 
towards the issues being caused as a result of wear and tear rather  than a fault present at 
the point of supply.
I appreciate that Mr J feels that the warning light would have been illuminated  if the oil was 
low. Whilst I agree that the inspection report didnt  note any warning lights, it does clearly  
say that the oil level was found to be below the minimum  level. Ive got no reason to doubt 
what the inspection  report says because it was carried out by an independent company.
Without a more detailed inspection of the car which might involve stripping down the engine, 
its not possible to say exactly what the fault is or what has caused it. The independent 
inspection report has concluded that the issue is most likely  to have been caused by driving  
the car with insufficient oil.
If there was an inherent fault with the engine, I would have expected  the fault to have 
presented itself sooner than August taking into account the mileage that the car had 
covered. I appreciate  that Mr J disputes  that he covered approximately 8000 miles but even 
5000 miles is a considerable amount and with the engine being a major moving component  
of the car I would have expected a point of supply  fault with the engine to be apparent within  
the first few weeks.
Ive taken into account the fact that this is a second hand car which had covered 
approximately 80,000 miles at the point of supply. I would expect to see a high degree of 
wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage.
Based on the available evidence Im unable to say that there was a point of supply  fault. It 
seems more likely  that the engine issue  is due to wear and tear, or that it has been caused 
by driving the car with insufficient  oil.
For the reasons  Ive given I cant conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of sale and I wont be asking Moneybarn to do anything.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2018.
Ref: DRN15319913Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1531991