K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Ms P says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms P says she wasnt  given an option to have the PPI and so it was just included.  Halifax 
had to make it clear the PPI was optional and that Ms P agreed  to take it. Neither  partys  
been able to give us much  detail about how the PPI was sold to Ms P. I think  its 
understandable that neither party has any detailed information  about how the PPI was 
sold because the sale was over 20 years  ago. 
But because of this, Ive not seen  enough  to say its likely Halifax did do things to make 
Ms P think the PPI wasnt optional. Or that she didnt agree  to take it at the time. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms P so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.
In saying the above, Ive considered what Ms P has said about her sick pay benefits and 
savings. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any other funds  she may have had, 
meaning they couldve been  used  for other essential  living costs. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms P has said - including what  shes  said about  being 
pressured into buying the PPI. For me to uphold Ms Ps complaint on this point I would have 
to find that its more likely than not that Halifax acted in this way. As Ive already said,  theres 
very limited information available from the sale itself. So Ive carefully  considered everything 
Ms P has said about this. And having  done that, I simply  dont  have compelling  evidence to 
say that the advisor put any unfair pressure on her. So these points dont change my 
decision.
For the sake of completeness, I note Ms P complained about not being able to make  a claim 
on the policy when  she was out of work.  But as our adjudicator explained  to her 
representatives this is a separate matter to this complaint. So I havent considered anything 
about that here. 
Ref: DRN17140232my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019. 
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1714023