K820x#14complaint
Miss H is unhappy with HSBC UK Bank Plcs  handling of her chargeback claim.
background
Miss H went on holiday  in August 2018.  She had booked  her holiday, which included the 
costs for flights and hotel  through  an online third party company (which Ill call Business A). 
She was disappointed with the service provided by her hotel and asked  HSBC,  under the 
chargeback scheme,  to refund  the money she had paid for the holiday.
HSBC credited her account whilst it investigated the matter. Business A provided  a full 
response to Miss Hs complaint, and, under the chargeback rules, the full amount was re-
debited in January  2019.  This left Miss H overdrawn on her bank account  which  meant she 
incurred an overdraft charge of £25. To help Miss H, HSBC  waived the overdraft  charge.
HSBC also offered to pay Miss H £100 compensation for giving her incorrect information 
during the claims  process. It later increased this offer to £200  in recognition of the 
inconvenience shed  been caused.  
Miss H wasnt  happy with the banks response so she brought  the complaint to us. One of 
our investigators looked into what happened and didnt think  HSBC  had done anything 
wrong so didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H didnt agree with this and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the case.  She says that HSBC shouldve done more  to make  the 
chargeback claim successful and she didnt think £200 was enough for the inconvenience 
caused. So the case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Hs complaint. I understand this will come as a disappointment  to her but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Chargeback is a process that is provided  by the card scheme. Miss H paid for the holiday 
using her HSBC, VISA  debit card and the chargeback rules are set by VISA and not the 
bank. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed in a number of situations,  
including if there's a problem with the goods or services they've  paid for. It is worth noting 
that the chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme and there's no automatic right to a 
chargeback. Having said that, I would usually expect a bank to attempt a chargeback, but 
theres still no guarantee doing so will result in the customer getting a refund.  
Miss H has explained  in detail her experience  of her holiday and I empathise with the 
unfortunate situation she found herself  in. But what I must consider is whether HSBC  has 
treated her fairly. I am not considering whether or not Business A provided  the service  
Miss H paid for. I am considering whether  HSBC acted properly when it received Miss Hs 
request under the chargeback scheme. And I think it did  Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN18914292HSBC processed the claim  under the category not as described or defective 
merchandise/services in the VISA scheme rules. It credited her account with the money, 
whilst it investigated the claim. In this case the merchant  Business A  defended the 
chargeback in accordance with the scheme  rules.  So, the money was taken back out of 
Miss Hs account in January 2019. I dont  think HSBC  did anything wrong, or acted unfairly, 
in this respect. 
Miss H was faced with an overdrawn account  after the money  was re-debited. I have 
considered this carefully but when the bank initially credited her account, she was warned 
that the merchant  could  challenge the refund, and that this could result in the money being 
taken back. And thats, ultimately, what  happened. HSBC has set aside the £25 overdraft  
charge which  I consider  to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note that HSBC offered to pay £200 compensation to Miss H for giving incorrect  information 
which wouldve falsely raised her expectations. I think this is a fair and reasonable response 
to its maladministration and any inconvenience  caused. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019. 
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1891429