K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that PRA Group  (UK) Limited (trading as PRA Group)  are pursuing  him for a 
debt that is unenforceable.
background
PRA Group  purchased a debt that was owed by Mr C from the original creditor in 
October 2016. At the time the debt was purchased, he was making  payments of £152.20  per 
month via a debt management company. 
However, Mr C subsequently stopped making payments in November 2017 because  he had 
concerns regarding the amount of the outstanding debt. He thought  that the debt ought to 
have been settled given the amount of payments he had already made,  so he asked PRA 
Group to provide  a copy of the credit agreement and information regarding the outstanding 
debt, pursuant  to sections 77/78/79  of the Consumer Credit  Act (CCA) 1974.
PRA Group  said there was an outstanding  balance  of £3,934.43. But they were unable to 
provide a copy of the credit agreement on which the debt was based, and neither could they 
provide the terms  and conditions of the original account and a statement demonstrating  how 
the balance was accrued. As a result, they acknowledged that the debt was unenforceable  
and that they would not be able to pursue legal action  to recover the outstanding balance.  
But despite  this, PRA Group said that the debt still existed, so they said they were  still 
entitled to pursue Mr C to discuss repayment,  and that they would continue to report  the 
account with the relevant credit referencing  agencies.  
Mr C says that PRA Group  were  unable to supply him with a copy  of the credit  agreement as 
required by the CCA  1974, and seemingly would not be able to. As a result, he submits  that 
they should cease any further collection activity until such time that they can prove  how 
much is due, or alternatively  write  off any remaining balance. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint because she was satisfied that the original 
creditor gave formal  notice to him when the debt was assigned  to PRA Group, which  stated 
what the outstanding debt was at the time. So although the debt may have been 
unenforceable, she didnt think it was unreasonable for PRA Group to continue to pursue it. 
Mr C disagreed, so the matter was passed  to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 3 December 2019. I said I was minded 
to uphold the complaint for the reasons stated below:
Section 77(1) of the CCA 1974 stipulates  what information the creditor  must  supply to a 
debtor under  a fixed-sum credit agreement:
The creditor under a regulated agreement for fixed-sum credit, within  the prescribed 
period after receiving a request in writing  to that effect from the debtor and payment 
of a feeshall give the debtor a copy of the executed agreement (if any) and of any 
other document referred  to in it, together with a statement signed by or on behalf of 
the creditor showing, according to the information to which it is practicable for him to 
refer 
(a)the total sum paid under the agreement by the debtor;
Ref: DRN13564582(b)the total sum which has become  payable  under  the agreement by the 
debtor but remains unpaid,  and the various amounts comprised in that 
total sum, with the date when each  became  due; and
(c)the total sum which is to become payable under the agreement by the 
debtor, and the various amounts comprised in that total sum, with the 
date, or mode of determining the date,  when each becomes due
Mr C made  a request  for the above information (and original credit agreement) in writing, but 
PRA Group  were unable  to provide  it, and neither could they obtain it from the original 
creditor. Section 77(4) of the CCA  1974  sets out the consequences for failing to provide the 
above information:
If the creditor under  an agreement fails to comply  with subsection  (1) 
(a)he is not entitled, while the default continues, to enforce the agreement
PRA Group  accept that this means they cannot  legally  enforce the debt. But they submit that 
they are still entitled  to pursue Mr C for repayment and continue to report the debt. However,  I 
do not think it is fair and reasonable for PRA Group to continue  to pursue Mr C for a debt which 
they can neither  prove with the original credit agreement, nor enforce. They cannot demonstrate 
on what terms Mr C has contracted  to repay the debt, or that he has breached these terms. So I 
therefore do not consider it reasonable for PRA Group to pursue Mr C for the debt (or to pass  
details on to third-party collection agencies) until such time that they can produce the credit 
agreement and properly  demonstrate how much  of the debt (if any) remains.
I said I intended to direct PRA Group (while the debt remains  unenforceable) to cease any 
further collection activity  to pursue Mr C for the debt. I also said they should cease reporting 
the account as in default to the relevant credit referencing agencies and should use their 
best endeavours to report the account  in such a way that reasonably reflects  its current  
status and circumstances.
I invited further comments  from both parties.  Mr C responded accepting  my proposals. PRA 
Group responded saying they had since managed  to obtain a copy of the account 
statements, which they say demonstrates  the current balance owed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it 
for the reasons set out above  (and in my provisional  decision).
I appreciate that PRA Group have located  a copy of the account statements. But it appears  
they are still unable to locate a copy of the credit agreement upon  which  the debt is based. 
So although  there may be information relating to what amount may potentially  be 
outstanding, they still cannot demonstrate  on what terms Mr C has contracted  to repay  any 
such debt, or that he has even breached  these  terms. And given that there is seemingly no 
agreement to enforce,  I still do not consider it reasonable for PRA Group  to continue to 
pursue Mr C for the debt until such time that they can produce the executed  agreement  and 
demonstrate the terms upon which it is based.  
Ref: DRN13564583my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct PRA Group (UK) Limited 
(while the debt remains unenforceable) to cease any further  collection activity  to pursue 
Mr C for the debt. 
PRA Group  should  also cease  reporting the account as in default to the relevant credit  
referencing agencies and should use their best endeavours to report  the account in such a 
way that reasonably reflects  its current status  and circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1356458