K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them three  payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policies  with three loans. 
Background
Mr and Mrs B took out loans through Nationwide in 1997 (the first sale), October 1999 (the 
second sale) and November 1999  (the third sale). Nationwide sold PPI policies with each of 
the loans. The first sale concerned a regular premium policy  whereas the cost of the second 
and third policies  was added to each  relevant loan upfront and attracted interest. The PPI 
protected the loan repayments  if Mr B suffered disablement or became unemployed. They 
also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed,  so 
the case was passed  to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Due to the passage of time since the sales, I think its understandable that there are gaps in 
the information thats still available. This makes  it more difficult  to determine with certainty  
what happened when  the PPI was sold. That said,  the copy loan agreements for the second 
and third sales show the PPI was clearly set out as Optional  and explained that cover 
included disability, unemployment and life cover. Mr and Mrs B signed  the agreements, 
indicating they were happy with them. I dont agree with Mr and Mrs B that references to the 
PPI being optional were hidden or buried in the paperwork.
I cant say for sure how PPI came to be added in the first place. But Ive seen  little to show it 
was added without  Mr and Mrs Bs knowledge or consent. So, on balance,  I think it likely 
Mr and Mrs B agreed to go ahead with the PPI knowing they had a choice. 
Mr and Mrs B suggest I should find in their favour given  theres  missing  information and 
taking into account  reports of mass PPI mis-selling by Nationwide  and other businesses. 
However, its for me to consider the merits of each complaint thats  been  referred  to me and 
thats what Ive done  here. 
I dont think Nationwide  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. That still meant  it needed to 
provide Mr and Mrs B with enough  information to allow them  to make an informed choice 
about the suitability of the PPI. Ive looked at each  of the sales  with that in mind.
I cant be certain what information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI when it sold 
each policy. But, if there were problems with the sales, I dont believe better information 
would have made a difference  to their decisions.  Thats because:   
Ref: DRN12949152It seems Mr B was eligible for the PPI. And although the PPI had exclusions to, or 
limits on, the cover, for example relating to claims for pre-existing medical  conditions,  
I cant see that Mr B would  have been  affected by them.   
Ive seen  nothing to show  me Mr and Mrs B would have found the monthly  premium  
of around £14 for the first sale unaffordable. And the loan agreements  Mr and Mrs B 
signed for the second and third sales made  it clear the PPI was an extra cost and set 
out what the costs were  both with and without interest. 
Mr and Mrs B could have got quite a lot more  back from the PPI in claims than it cost,  
as the benefits  were considerable. So I think Mr and Mrs B would still have seen it as 
worth having,  even  if Mr B had been  entitled  to enhanced sick pay and redundancy 
pay (though no details  of either  have been  provided). No details of their savings have 
been provided either, although the PPI meant  they could have retained  them  or used 
them to cover their other living  costs  if Mr B wasnt  working.
Its possible Mr and Mrs B might not have wanted  PPI which  didnt give a proportional 
refund if the second and third loans  were repaid early, as that would have made 
cancelling them more expensive.  But I havent  seen anything  in the applicable policy  
terms that would have  prevented Mr and Mrs B from getting  a proportional refund in 
those circumstances.
So, taking everything  into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because  of how 
Nationwide sold them these PPI policies.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1294915