K822xcomplaint
Mr Gs complaint is made against  Roberts  Clark Independent Financial Solutions Limited 
(Robert Clark). Mr G says he was advised  to remain in a cash  fund since  early  2016 and as 
a result he missed significant growth  within his pension plan.
background 
Ive considered Mr Gs complaint before.  I issued a provisional decision on 18 August 2020.  
Ive attached it and it forms part of this decision.  
In response to my provisional decision Roberts Clark made  an offer to Mr G. Weve  seen a 
copy of the offer and we told Mr G it seemed to be in line with the redress  Id suggested in 
my provisional decision. Mr G didnt want to accept the offer and Roberts  Clark has now 
withdrawn it. 
Mr G said he was unhappy with the amount offered for a number  of reasons. He told us:
He didnt invest in equities for some time because  he had bad experiences  with a 
previous adviser  and Roberts Clark. He wanted to find a new adviser and, not 
knowing the investment market,  he wanted to wait until he found an adviser  before 
investing in equities  again. He's a lay investor and relies on advice.
It took some time for him to find a new adviser he felt he could trust and his new 
adviser isnt local to where  he lives. 
In the circumstances he doesnt agree that redress should be limited to 40% of his 
total investment  and for a shorter  period. 
He questioned if we are impartial  and hed like me to articulate my reasons for not 
allowing the time it took for him to find a new adviser. He queried if my views were 
based on what he termed behavioural science. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr G is disappointed with my provisional decision and in particular the redress 
I suggested. Id like to assure him that we are impartial. My decisions are reached on the 
basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of the particular case.
In my provisional decision I said I didnt think Mr G was unhappy with the initial move into 
cash ahead  of Brexit.  But hed then started  to question whether  that strategy should 
continue. And my view was that Roberts Clark should have advised  Mr G to reinvest in early 
2017. I dont think  Mr G disagrees with that finding. What he doesnt agree with is what  I said 
about the period for which Roberts  Clark should  pay compensation  from 1 February 2017 
to 2 February 2018. And its the end date which he is thinks is unfair. 
I said that redress should be calculated up only up until early February 2018 because  Mr G 
and Roberts Clark parted  company  about then. And a year or so later,  in February  2019.  
60% of Mr Gs fund was still held in the RLP Cash Plus Fund. So I limited  redress to 40% of 
Mr Gs fund.
Ref: DRN16822092I can understand why Mr G may have wanted to have taken his time to find a new adviser 
that he felt confident hed be able to work with. But I have to be fair to both parties. And 
generally wed expect  a consumer to take whatever steps he could to mitigate  any loss. As I 
noted in my provisional decision, Mr G had investment experience  and hed worked in the 
industry. He knew, if he remained in a cash based  fund,  he could lose out on investment 
returns. Hed also have  been aware  that, if he reinvested and markets fell, he could lose out, 
particularly as hed lost out in the 2007/2008 financial crisis.  
It took Mr G some time to find a new adviser.  I dont  criticise him for taking  his time and 
wanting to be sure hed chosen the right adviser.  But I still dont think  it would be fair to say 
Roberts Clark should be responsible for any loss of growth during the period it took Mr G, 
with a new adviser, to decide what he wanted to do.  
If Mr G accepts my decision  Roberts Clark will need to recalculate  redress  to the date of 
payment. We may be able to assist with that calculation. Alternatively it would be acceptable  
if Roberts Clark added  interest at 8% to its offer (£13,365.71) from 13 November 2020 to the 
date of payment.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Roberts Clark must redress Mr G as Ive set out in my attached 
provisional decision and above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2021.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16822093PROVISIONAL DECISION dated 18 August 2020
complaint
Mr G has complained he was advised to remain in a cash fund since early 2016 and as a result he 
missed significant growth within his pension plan.
background
Mr G signed  up to a platinum service with Roberts Clark  Independent  Financial Solutions Limited  
(Roberts Clark) in November 2015. Mr G was then aged 49 and considered to be a medium risk 
investor. Following a transfer, he set up a Royal  London  Pension Portfolio. The platinum service 
included quarterly advice.  Roberts  Clark  also issued  weekly  bulletins called traffic  lights alerts.  
These were investment warnings on Roberts Clarks  directors personal view of markets, with a basic 
principle of buy low, sell high.  
Very briefly, what happened  was that in April 2016 Roberts  Clark advised Mr G to move a large  
proportion of his fund into the RLP Cash Plus Fund. The next report  dated  20 June 2016 advised  
moving the remaining  funds into that Fund. Mr Gs pension fund remained in that Fund until February  
2018  aside  from £10,000  which Roberts Clark  had advised in April 2017 be moved  into Far East 
and emerging markets.   And Mr Gs regular monthly contributions of £1,000 werent paid into the RLP 
Cash Plus Fund but into the RLP Henderson China Opportunities  Fund. Following further discussions 
in late 2017 and early  2018 £100,000  was switched into equities on 2 February  2018.  
Mr G and Roberts Clark later parted company. Mr G complained to Roberts Clark. Mr G questioned 
the suitability of advice to move all of his equity investments  in his pension to a cash  based fund in 
early 2016  to avoid losses in anticipation of a market  crash. Over  the next 18 months Roberts Clark  
continued to recommend that strategy but the anticipated crash didnt material and investors instead 
saw significant gains. At Mr Gs request  Roberts Clark  calculated this missed growth to be between  
£127,068 and £192,784.  Mr G said hed received bad investment advice and as a result had missed 
out on significant growth  to his pension.
Mr G said he appreciated  that investment advice  wasnt black  and white. But with a risk profile  of 
medium plus or minus 20% he should have been advised to reinvest in equities  once things settled  
down after the Brexit vote. But since early 2016 all of the communications, meetings and quarterly 
reports from Roberts Clark had been consistent  in saying investing is too risky, that a crash is 
imminent and that Mr G should only reinvest once they issued a green alert. Mr G took that advice in 
good faith and hes missed  out on unprecedented growth in the equities  market. 
Roberts Clark didnt uphold  the complaint.  Mr G referred it to us. One of our adjudicators looked into 
it. She considered  the weekly alerts and the investment reports that were sent to Mr G from February 
2016. The alerts had warnings that they didnt  constitute advice; that Roberts Clark couldnt advise  
when it was a good time to invest; and that the alerts were for information only. But she noted  they 
were referenced in the investment reports issued.
In the investment report of 4 April 2016 Mr G was advised to switch a large proportion  of his holdings  
into cash. This switch  meant that total in the RLP Cash Plus Fund would be around £210,000. In the 
adjudicators opinion, the recommendation to hold around 58% in a cash fund was unsuitable  for a 
medium risk investor.  Mr G was around ten years away  from his intended retirement age. In the report 
of June 2016,  Mr G was recommended  to switch  all his equity funds into the RLP Cash Plus Fund.   
Later reports said that Mr G should invest in a range of funds which  were detailed in each report. 
However the reports said that investments should  be made  only when  the investment alerts were  
green or in normal market conditions. The adjudicator said, if Roberts  Clark had said that investment 
alerts were only for information,  these should not have been referenced in the investment reports.  
Ref: DRN16822094In a phone call on 22 August  2017, it was said that Mr G could go back into the markets at his own 
discretion. Roberts Clark, as an adviser  who charges a consumer to provide advice, shouldnt  put the 
onus on the consumer to make an investment  decision. Also, even though the investment report gave 
a recommendation  to invest into the markets, the traffic signal contradicted that and it was no surprise  
that Mr G felt confused. Mr G had said hed wait before reinvesting but as his adviser  Roberts  Clark  
should have recommended  the best course of action rather than simply agree  that Mr G should  
remain in the cash based fund. 
The adjudicator said that she didnt  class Mr G as a sophisticated investor and he relied on Roberts 
Clark for advice. Hed said that numerous times in his emails and calls.  He had suffered losses in the 
2007/2008 market crash  and was hesitant to take a very high degree of risk but he was certainly  not 
risk averse. 
The adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that Mr G shouldnt  have been advised  to remain  in 
a cash based fund for such a length  of time as it was not in line with his attitude to risk especially 
considering he was ten years away from retirement. She suggested Roberts Clark  redress Mr G for 
the period 4 April 2016 to 2 February 2018. 
But later, when the adjudicator  viewed the statements of Mr Gs Royal  London plan in February  2019, 
she noted that hed remained 60% in cash despite not being a client of Roberts Clark for almost a 
year. She concluded  he was reluctant to invest into the markets completely and had taken  no further 
action to mitigate his losses. She thought Mr G wouldnt have invested fully in the markets  even if 
Roberts Clark had advised  him to do so. She changed  her suggested redress to reflect  that. 
Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicators  revised  view and that the redress should be reduced to 40%. 
He said he hadnt invested  during that period  because it had taken  some time to select  a new adviser 
and hed assumed that the compensation would  cover his losses and he could start afresh once  that 
had been paid. Hed since acted on recommendations  made  by his new adviser  and had switched the 
cash parked  funds into a balanced portfolio of equities and bonds.   
Roberts Clark didnt agree with the adjudicators  view either. Ive summarised  the main  points.
Full fund recommendations were made in the third quarterly  review sent to Mr G on 10 July 
2017. The adviser  went through the review with Mr G over the telephone on 22 August 2017. 
A summary  was emailed to Mr G. It said Mr G had decided to keep with a lower 
risk/defensive profile for now rather  than the full +/- 20%, holding mainly in cash bearing in 
mind your desire not to invest back into markets at all around highs.  There was a reference to 
that being  the advisers  and his wifes  stance  for their own money. That demonstrated a 
reluctance to invest in the recommended  funds  and that Mr G wished to adopt  a lower 
risk/defensive stance. Much of what was said during the call was quoted.  What  the 
adjudicator had said about  the call wasnt accurate. 
There was another quarterly review on 16 October 2017. Full fund recommendations were 
again made. Mr G confirmed  on 8 November  2017 that no fund switches were required, that 
hed continue  with the cash park until the adviser (and his wife)  changed tack.  
There was a further quarterly review  on 7 February 2018. Full fund recommendations were  
again made. Mr G was also recommended to redirect his regular contributions away from the 
RLP Henderson  China Opportunities Fund. There was a telephone  meeting  and Mr G agreed 
to the redirection. But he only wanted to switch 50% of the cash which  had been earmarked 
for equities. That (and the fact he hasnt since fully invested)  shows that he always made  his 
own investment  decisions, regardless of the advice given  in the reviews.  
The adjudicator had acknowledged the somewhat unique relationship Mr G had with Roberts  
Clark in that he wanted  to follow what the adviser  and his wife were doing with their own 
money. But shed said if switching  to a cash based fund was appropriate Mr G should have 
changed his risk profile. Mr G had wanted to be advised  on a medium risk basis but, 
depending on what  the adviser and his wife were  doing with their own money, hed follow  that, 
switching in and out of cash  based funds  and the funds  recommended for him. 
Ref: DRN16822095Since the last fund switches  were processed in February 2018 Mr G hadnt taken  any further 
action to change his fund holdings.  Hes still not fully invested and holds 60% of his pension in 
the RLP Cash  Plus fund. And despite receiving  updated fund recommendations in April 2018.
Roberts Clark cant fairly be blamed for actions Mr G has taken or instructed Roberts Clark  to 
take. If it had persuaded him to always invest in line with the recommendations  it made, he 
might have lost money  and that wasnt the way he wanted to work with Roberts  Clark. It had 
offered fund recommendations at every stage but had taken into account Mr Gs requirement 
to follow the adviser and act on the investment alerts.
Mr G may not be a sophisticated investor but he is aware of markets and is financially and 
politically astute and aware and has worked in the industry.  He isnt someone who isnt aware 
of the risks of being out of the markets.  Or who could claim no knowledge of the implications  
of the actions  he took, particularly the pension  losses he suffered in 2007/2008 which  seems 
to have dominated his investment decisions throughout his relationship with Roberts  Clark.
Mr G made many  fund switch requests  himself and not just following the quarterly reports. Mr 
Gs emails of 24 June 2016 and 26 October 2016 were provided. Fund recommendations 
were made with further information about investment risk and the state of the markets  at the 
time, to be discussed further with Mr G in the light of market conditions so hed be in a 
position to make an informed  decision  whether or not to switch funds. 
The adjudicator had said the issue  to determine was whether or not Mr G should  have been 
advised to invest the monies held in the cash fund. The fund recommendations advised that 
he do that, despite him always using the weekly emails as his trigger for when to invest. They 
were referenced in the report because  that was how Mr G invested. He chose to follow  what 
the adviser did even though  he was given recommendations in line with his attitude to risk. 
Mr G had his own philosophy on investing and only took Roberts  Clarks fund 
recommendations when he chose to do so. He was unhappy not to see any growth but 
equally happy that he hadnt  lost money as hed done  earlier.  
As agreement  couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry its taken longer than wed have  liked for the complaint to reach this final stage  of our 
process. I note Mr Gs concerns about the amount  of any redress being  reduced by falls in the 
markets during the period  hes been  waiting for an ombudsmans decision.  It is the case, where  
redress is to be calculated by reference to an index, that the amount will vary and reflect falls and 
rises in the index. Redress calculated on an earlier  date may be higher (or indeed  lower) than when 
the complaint is actually  decided.  
But doesnt  mean  the consumer has been penalised by any delay. Its simply reflective  of investment 
conditions generally and how the value of an investment can fluctuate over a particular period. Its fair 
to redress investment loss as at the date the complaint is decided  it puts the consumer in the 
position hed have been in had that money been invested throughout. 
To uphold  the complaint  Id need to be satisfied that Roberts  Clark gave Mr G unsuitable advice or 
didnt provide  the service that Mr G was paying for. The adjudicators view was that Mr G shouldnt 
have been advised to remain  in a cash fund for such a length of time as it wasnt in line with his 
attitude to risk especially as he was some ten years away from retirement.
 In principal I agree. But I think  there are some other factors which I need  to be clear that Ive taken 
into account.  
I note what Roberts Clark says about its relationship with Mr G and what hed said about  how he 
wanted to invest and, in particular, his wish to follow  what  the adviser and his wife were doing 
personally. Mr G had also suffered losses to his pension  fund in 2007/2008 which, understandably, he 
Ref: DRN16822096was keen  not to repeat.  He accepts that he was looking  for an adviser  who would monitor the markets 
and react if they fell.  Mr  G had investment  experience and hed worked in the industry. He was better  
placed than others to weigh up his options  and the possible  consequences. He knew that if he 
remained in a cash based fund he could lose out on investment returns. I acknowledge that predicting  
market falls or volatility isnt a precise science. And the timing of any decision to reinvest wont be 
obvious. With hindsight  its easy to say that different  decisions should  have been made. But it wont 
be fair to judge what happened on that basis.
Ive borne all those considerations  in mind in considering if Roberts  Clark gave Mr G suitable  advice.  
The adjudicator suggested  Mr G should be compensated for the period 4 April 2016 to 2 February 
2018. But Im not sure that Mr G is complaining about the period leading up to the Brexit vote.  It 
seems, and as confirmed  by his email of 24 June 2016, he was happy with the advice to move into 
cash in advance  of the vote and relieved to avoid the immediate market falls. I think  his concerns  
centre on the period  after that and whether,  once  things had settled down, he should have been 
advised to move back into the markets. Mr G has suggested that might have been in late 2016 or 
early 2017.
After the Brexit vote Mr Gs next quarterly  review was in October  2016.  It referred  to the FTSE  100 
having recently been at a higher point than had been  seen for many years but said there was much 
volatility and uncertainty. As to what the adviser  and his wife planned to do personally, the report  said 
they had no plans for reinvesting  our own pensions  and investments in UK, US or European markets  
at the moment, whilst  there is so much uncertainty and they are relatively high.  
The theme  of uncertainty and high market levels  continued in the 9 January 2017 report. But it seems 
that by then Mr G was starting to question the strategy.  He emailed Roberts Clark in January 2017 
querying why, when  the markets hadnt dropped,  he hadnt been advised  to reinvest  in equities and 
benefit from the market growth. Roberts Clark replied  on 25 January  2017 saying it had protected 
clients from market falls and clients had reacted favourably but were now concerned about missed 
growth. Roberts Clark maintained that it thought the storm  is to come.  
The April 2017 was similar to the January  2017 report. But it did recommend that Mr G move £10,000 
into far-east  and emerging  markets. 
It wasnt until the quarterly review report on 10 July 2017 that the tone changed  somewhat. The report  
pointed out that cash based funds  were  generally only temporary. And fund recommendations in line 
with Mr Gs objectives  and attitude to risk were made. 
But that was, in my view,  somewhat undermined by the comment that whether Mr G invested would 
depend on his view of the markets. About that the report said:  
All fund recommendations I make for you will take into account  the comments  made
here. I will recommend a range of funds  that are suitable to your objectives  and attitude
towards risk. Whether you decide to invest in all, some or none  of the recommended
funds, now and in the future, is your own decision. No one can predict how stock
markets and investment sectors will perform.
Mr G and the adviser discussed the report over the telephone  on 22 August 2017.  Mr G said hed 
missed the FTSE  rise after Brexit  but that had been down to him - hed made a bad call. He went on 
to say he was concerned he wasnt  growing  his assets.  Its clear Mr G was concerned hed been out 
of the markets for over a year and hed missed out on that growth. The discussion centred on whether 
the rise in the markets would be sustained. I accept that Mr G was concerned  about reinvesting and 
for the markets then to fall. But, like the adjudicator, I dont  think its fair for an adviser, who is being 
paid to guide  and advise a client, to put the onus on the client to make  his own decisions as to 
whether or not to invest. 
Ref: DRN16822097I think  the advice was contradictory and confusing for Mr G. I think  the adviser should have made 
clear recommendations for Mr G based on his risk profile. I dont think  it was fair for Roberts Clark  to 
make recommendations  and then,  in effect,  leave  it up to Mr G if he followed them or remained in the 
cash based fund. In the end, despite having recommended that Mr G invest in a range  of funds which 
matched his risk profile and objectives, Roberts Clark  then agreed with Mr G that he should remain  in 
a cash based fund. 
I dont think remaining  in a cash fund for such a length of time and given how much money Mr G had 
in his fund, was suitable. It wasnt  in line with Mr Gs risk profile, especially  considering that he was 
some time away from his intended retirement age  some ten years if retired at 60 or fifteen if at age 
65. I understand that Mr G may have been happy not to have lost any money. But I dont think  that 
means he doesnt have a valid complaint  about not seeing  any investment growth and when his fund 
hasnt been invested in line with his attitude to risk and which wasnt revised to cautious or risk 
averse. 
Ive considered what Mr G would have done if hed been given suitable advice. As Ive recognised  
hed said he wanted  to follow what the adviser  and his wife were  doing  with their own money. But, 
again as Ive said,  Mr G was paying Roberts Clark  to give him suitable  advice taking into account  his 
circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk. I dont think its fair to say that Mr G would always  have 
declined to act on suitable advice  even  if the adviser  and his wife had decided to remain largely in 
cash. 
Ive tried to strike a balance and be fair to both Mr G and Roberts Clark. I think Mr G would always 
have been happy to follow the advisers  lead for a while. But I think its clear that by January 2017 Mr 
G was getting restless.  He was questioning the cash parking strategy  and expressed concern that 
remaining out of the markets  had meant that hed lost out on investment  growth. 
Given the concerns  expressed  by Mr G in January 2017 I think Roberts  Clark  should  have recognised 
Mr G wasnt  convinced  about remaining cash parked and made fund recommendations in line with his 
attitude to risk. That might  have led to the sort of conversation Mr G and Roberts Clark had in August 
2017 with the result  that Mr G might  have  decided  against reinvesting. But Ive explained why I dont 
think it was satisfactory  for Roberts Clark,  in effect, to leave it up to Mr G to decide  if and when he 
wanted to reinvest in market linked funds. 
In deciding what Mr G would have done if hed been given suitable advice  in January 2017 its also 
relevant to look at what he actually  did. Full fund recommendations in line with Mr Gs attitude  and 
tolerance to investment risk were made in February 2018. Mr G accepted those  recommendations in 
part only  he proceeded with only 50% of the recommendations and decided to go back  into market 
linked funds with some  of the money  held in the RPL Cash Fund Plus account - £100,000  was 
switched into equities  on 2 February 2018. 
 And, by February  2019,  a year or so after Mr G and Roberts Clark had parted company, 60% of Mr 
Gs fund was still held in the RLP Cash Plus Fund. 
I note what Mr G has said about why he didnt go ahead with any further investments. I can 
understand that he may have had concerns about  approaching another  adviser.  But he knew,  when 
he and Roberts Clark parted  company, that hed missed out on fund growth. I dont think it was 
unreasonable to expect him to take further advice and take steps to mitigate or at least  stop further 
losses occurring as a result of not being invested. 
Mr G has said that he thought he could start afresh once hed been paid compensation and that hes 
since authorised his cash  parked funds to be switched into a balanced  portfolio of equities  and bonds. 
Mr G may have understood that hed be compensated for losses  right up to date. Thats to some 
extent correct  any loss hes suffered  during  the period when Roberts  Clark  was acting for him will be 
brought up to date by adding an investment return to the date of payment. But I dont think  it would be 
right for Roberts Clark to be responsible for investment  decisions Mr G took (or didnt take)  once 
Roberts Clark ceased  to act for him. 
Ref: DRN16822098All in all I think the redress proposed  by the adjudicator  was reasonable save that I dont agree that it 
should be calculated  from April 2016. I think the loss calculation should be from the beginning of 
February 2017. That would have given Mr G time,  if Roberts  Clark had made  fund recommendations 
in January 2017, to have authorised and made fund switches by, say, 1 February  2017. Ive also said 
the benchmark indicated should be used to bring  any loss up to date.  
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr G as close as possible to the 
position hed probably now be in if he had been  given suitable advice.  
I think  Mr G would have invested differently.  It isnt possible to say precisely what hed have done but 
Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable  given Mr Gs circumstances  and objectives  
when he invested.  I havent  included Mr Gs monthly premiums as these  have been invested into the 
agreed funds.
what should Roberts Clark do? 
To compensate Mr G fairly Roberts Clark  should:
Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with that of the benchmark shown  below. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value 
is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
If there  is a loss, it should be paid into Mr Gs pension plan,  to increase  its value by the amount of the 
compensation. The payment  should allow  for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.  The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance. 
If it cant be paid into the pension  plan it should be paid direct to Mr G. But had it been possible to pay 
into the plan, it would have  provided  a taxable  income. Therefore  the compensation  should be 
reduced to notionally allow  for any income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using  Mr Gs expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement 
age.
For example, if hes likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr G would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation. 
Roberts Clark should also pay Mr G £300 for the trouble and upset hes experienced over the 
uncertainty of his plans for retirement.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr G in a clear and simple format.  
investment name
status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end date)additional return
Royal London  
Pension Portfolio still existsFTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return  Index 
40%;
Royal London  
Cash Plus Fund 
60%1 February 2017 2 February
2018a return  using  
the same 
benchmark the 
loss from 2 
February 2018 to 
the date of 
payment
 
Ref: DRN16822099actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a
return using the benchmark.  Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added  to the fair 
value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted capital  growth  and was willing to accept some investment
risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index (prior  to 1 March 2017,
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market Income Total Return Index) is made  up of a range of
indices with different asset classes, mainly  UK equities and government  bonds.  Its
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher
return.
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the
index is close enough  to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure  of comparison
given Mr G's circumstances and risk attitude.
As at February 2019 Mr G still held about 60% of his funds in the RLP Cash Fund Plus 
account. cash  fund and no further fund switches have been  made  since 2 February 2018.  So 
his losses should be crystallised on that date.
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. 
Roberts Clark Independent Financial Solutions Limited  must  redress Mr G as Ive set out above.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1682209