K820x#14complaint
Miss U has complained about how Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) has treated her 
in branch and in closing  her account.
background
Miss U says that BOS  has treated her unfairly because it closed her account when she 
wanted the account to remain open.  She also says it has treated  her unfairly when  shes 
been in branch, it has discriminated  against  her and she also wants to complain about a 
cheque that was sent to her.
Miss U complained to BOS and it BOS says its treated her fairly. It says it chose to close her 
account because  of her behaviour in branch on two occasions. It said it properly closed her 
account in line with its terms and conditions. It says it hasnt discriminated against her. So all 
in all it doesnt feel it has been unfair  to Miss U so it doesnt feel it needs to do anymore.
Miss U says she disagrees so she complained to this service. The adjudicator did not agree 
with Miss U. As Miss U remains  unhappy  this complaint has been  passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss U has provided substantial evidence showing that she has suffered long lasting and 
chronic mental illness. I am sorry to hear this and I hope she continues  to receive treatment 
as and when she needs it. I have considered this throughout my review of this complaint.
Whilst considering what  has happened here I can see that Miss U and BOS disagree  about 
what happened. This means I must decide  what is more likely to have happened.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think  this complaint should be upheld.  I 
say this for the following  reasons.
I can see from the evidence that the branch has recorded instances  of Miss U being 
disruptive whilst in branch. BOS has recorded at the time that Miss U had been swearing  at 
customers  and being verbally abusive  and personal to colleagues  on two separate 
occasions. Miss Us medical evidence  shows  that when shes  not well she can be seen as 
being paranoid and aggressive. However  BOS has noted that it has only become aware  of 
Miss Us health issues after it decided to close her account because of her behaviour. As it 
didnt know about  Miss Us health issues, I dont  think it has treated her unfairly  in deciding 
to close her account. BOS  is entitled to have commercial relationships  with whoever it 
chooses to-and this service cannot  interfere  in that. And as it didnt know about Miss Us 
health I dont think it has treated  her unfairly  in deciding to close  her account.
I see it has been argued on Miss Us behalf that she has a right to a basic bank account. 
This is correct, but this is doesnt override BOS  decision not to have a relationship  with her 
as per the terms and conditions Miss U agreed with it. And it doesnt mean BOS is obliged  to 
change its mind.
Ref: DRN16507612Miss U has also argued that BOS  should  have known that she had mental health issues  
because she receives medical based  benefits from the state  and doesnt use a walking stick 
or wheelchair. I dont  think BOS  should  have known  about Miss Us condition  just because 
she receives benefits. These benefits  could have  been for any of many other conditions 
which arent obvious or in plain view.
Miss U has also stated  that the terms and conditions to which  she agreed have no legal  
standing as she has had a relationship with BOS for over ten years.  This argument  is not 
persuasive to me. Ultimately BOS and Miss U agreed to a relationship between them. In that 
agreement it is set out how accounts  can be closed  and BOS has acted in line with this. 
According to the terms and conditions BOS was entitled to close  the account  in differing 
ways and with differing  notice periods. BOS chose to write to Miss U about closing her 
account even  though  it wasnt  obliged  to do so. It did this because it knew  she received 
benefits and would need to change where those  benefits were paid. 
Miss U says she didnt receive  the closure letter. Ive considered  BOS  records and Im 
satisfied it was sent and there wasnt any significant mistake in it doing so.
So I dont  think BOS  has done anything wrong in closing the account. But I do appreciate 
this will be an inconvenience to Miss U.
Miss U has said that BOS staff treated her badly when these incidents  happened. But shes 
only mentioned  these sometime after they happened. Im sure these events were  concerning  
for all present. But considering all I know Im not persuaded that BOS  staff did anything I 
need to remedy.
Miss U says that she wasnt asked into a private  room and that BOS  representatives in 
branch were  insufficiently  trained to deal with her medical needs.  BOS has responded to this 
by stating that it didnt  have  a private room  available.  And that it wasnt aware  at the time 
that Miss Us behaviour  was as a result  of a medical condition. I dont think  BOS has treated 
her unfairly around these  issues.
Miss U has said she feels  that she was discriminated against by BOS.  Miss U has already 
been told that Equalities and Human  Rights Commission  are better  placed  to offer advice  on 
such matters.  However having considered the matter  Im not persuaded that BOS has 
treated Miss U unfairly  because of her medical  condition, or indeed as a result of 
discrimination regarding any other of the protected  characteristics.
Lastly Miss U has complained about  a cheque she received. This was from another  firm, 
separate to BOS.  So if Miss U wishes to complain about that firm she should  raise her 
complaint with it directly  to start with.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland  Plc 
trading as Halifax. It has nothing more  to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ref: DRN16507613ombudsman
Ref: DRN1650761