K820x#14complaint
Mr C complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy with a credit card in 1997.  
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in January 2019,  comprehensively 
setting out why I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  And  I asked both parties to 
provide any further  submissions or information  to me within one month.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  It seems neither party wants to send in 
any new information or arguments. So theres no reason for me to change  the findings  I set 
out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. And dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay any 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15013932summary   provisional decision
Ive carefully considered the relevant information about this complaint. Having looked closely  at the 
evidence, I can see Mr C was previously given some incorrect information  about  when his PPI policy 
operated between.  Im therefore issuing a provisional  decision to clarify the situation.  
complaint
Mr C complained that HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  
with a credit  card in 1997.  
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld but Mr C disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Im not intending to uphold  this complaint.
Its unfortunate that we dont  have any records or documents about this sale.  Mr C says the PPI was 
sold when he was getting his new credit  card and he felt pressured into also buying  PPI. He says he 
didnt know PPI was optional and could therefore be refused.
However, neither Mr C nor HSBC can show me any of the paperwork that was used during the 
application process.  Given  that we know the credit card was issued over 21 years ago, this isnt 
particularly unusual and businesses arent required to keep paperwork indefinitely. HSBC says it 
computer records also show the credit card account  was terminated prior to April 2008, which  is also 
a long time ago.
But Im afraid all this means  theres as much  to say Mr C was given a choice  about the PPI  as there 
is to say he wasnt. HSBC says consumers  were told the PPI was optional  in these  types of cases  
and that its application forms contained yes or no options about PPI. Weve  seen quite a few similar 
sales and Ive seen postal application forms where such an option existed. But for sales carried out in 
a branch, it seems there are no examples  of application forms, going  that far back.
However, theres no dispute  Mr C did buy a PPI policy  and I think this would have shown  up regularly 
on his monthly statements. So I think its just as likely Mr C agreed to the cover and may have since 
forgotten.
For the same reasons as above, I simply  cant say if this was an advised sale. But I dont think this 
issue really  matters in this case because I think the PPI was probably suitable  for Mr C anyway. This 
is because I think Mr C was eligible for the PPI and unlikely to have been caught  by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies.  
Hes told us about the job he had and that it came with some sick pay entitlements. Ive considered 
these carefully but they dont necessarily  mean  the policy  wasnt of use. 
In the event  of a successful claim, for example,  the policy  could have paid 10% of his outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months. And the PPI cover was there to remove the added  pressure of paying 
his balance in financially difficult times such as him becoming unable to work, or losing  his job. 
Overall, I think  the policy is likely to have been suitable for him.
Ref: DRN15013933HSBC also had a duty to ensure the information he was given was clear. After  so long, I obviously 
cant say Mr C was given  all the information he should have  been given. But I think  he would have 
probably been  given something explaining the policy and what it was for.
To uphold  his complaint, Id need to think it was more likely Mr C wasnt given  an option or there were  
other serious flaws in the sale. I dont have that evidence  and I dont have enough to uphold  his 
complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont currently intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint or direct HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to pay him compensation.
Ref: DRN1501393