K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  For consistency,  Ill refer mainly to Halifax.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs H bought the policy in 2005 at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. She applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in a branch and the PPI was part of a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP was a product that typically included PPI, critical illness 
cover and life insurance. Consumers who wanted  to buy this type of protection  could take 
some elements of insurance and not others,  to suit their individual  circumstances.
This complaint is only about the PPI element, which was sold to Mrs H with some of the 
other products. Subject  to its exclusions and limitations, the PPI offered to repay up to £332 
a month  towards  Mrs Hs mortgage  balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, 
the PPI elements cost around £19 a month.  
These events were a long time ago and I can understand  Mrs H has tried hard to recollect 
her situation  of the time accurately. We know Mrs H was employed  in a supermarket,  but I 
note shes represented  by a claims management  company which  told us she was a brand-
new starter and entitled to 12 months  full sick pay. It also said that she already had critical 
illness cover  in place.  However, I dont  think some of these things are right. We know from 
documents used  at the time that Mrs H had been employed for around a year or so in that 
role. And in my experience, we rarely  see consumers with such  generous  sickness 
protection and even  then, usually only in specific professions. I therefore think  Mrs Hs 
sickness protection would have been substantially less than12  months. 
For the critical illness issue - which I take to be implying that she didnt need PPI - this was 
actually sold at the same time as part of the same sale. So having  the two types of insurance 
cover werent in conflict with each  other;  they covered different things. 
Mrs H representative has also implied that she wasnt eligible for the PPI, due her not being 
employed for long enough. It provided  no supporting evidence  of this however, and Im afraid 
I dont think this is right either,  as Ive said. As regards her health,  we were told Mrs H was 
free of significant  medical problems at the point of sale.  Mrs Hs representative has made  
other lengthy and substantial  representations  on her behalf.  I will not restate them  all here, 
but I have read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mrs Hs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Hs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN18709922claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mrs H about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs H and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs H disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. Its also relevant to note that there have for some time been codes governing  the 
sale of insurance products such as PPI. There is much in common  between  the present 
statutory regulatory  regime  and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, 
the position at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN18709923In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Halifax  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN18709924-Whether Halifax gave Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs H and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs H know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  My experience of these sales is 
that consumers, like Mrs H, usually discussed  the elements  of the TMPP with an adviser 
first. In her case, I can see she was sent or given a schedule which  clearly  set out that she 
had accepted various levels of cover, including the PPI. I also see her Mortgage  Offer, a 
document I feel Mrs H would have wanted  to read carefully, set out that she didnt have to 
buy Halifax insurance if she didnt  want to  and the only insurance protection she needed to 
have was buildings cover.
Ive seen quite  a lot of other documentation  from the sale which  I think  strongly  shows  she 
would have known  the costs involved and she would have had to authorise  the monthly 
premium(s) to leave  her bank account.  In short, I think theres comprehensive evidence that 
Mrs H, generally,  wanted to be protected against  unforeseen events: she took out several  
forms of insurance, of which PPI was one.
So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  Mrs H knew the PPI was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did Halifax provide advice?
This was an advised  sale which means Halifax had to advise Mrs H with reasonable care 
and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for 
Mrs H and I note a demands and needs exercise was carried out. The adviser therefore 
had information  about Mrs Hs financial circumstances and theres some evidence they 
considered whether she had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall however, on the balance of probabilities I cant say Halifax did all it should have done  
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs H given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN18709925However, even though  I acknowledge that Halifax could have done more  to make  sure the 
policy was suitable  for Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-She most probably met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs H had a need for the policy  it seems likely that her ability to continue  to meet 
her mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if she was not working  
for an extended period of time  even allowing for any benefits / savings her 
representative says she could  have been  able to access.
-Theres no evidence monthly cost of the policy was unaffordable for Mrs H.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs H. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Hs employment  or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim  and there most likely  werent  pre-existing medical  conditions  that 
could affect her ability to claim.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs H was given a description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was unable  
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the costs. I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mrs H would have taken out the policy without  any 
sense of what the policy was for or how much  it was. This was set out on the documentation 
she was given and which Ive seen in many  similar situations.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mrs H agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs H Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs H all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Hs representative considers to be poor 
Ref: DRN18709926value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs H has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs H? To what extent did Mrs H 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs H. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs H 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs H 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs H, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs H suffered loss or damage in 
this case primarily  depends on whether, if Halifax  had explained  things properly, Mrs H 
would have acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken out the policy  in any event. 
Mrs H says she wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully. Deciding whether to follow  advice to take 
out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a number  of factors  before  deciding 
whether to proceed. Effectively  the consumer  has to weigh up the advice to take out the 
policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits  offered in return and the potential 
consequences they will suffer if they do not have  insurance, should  the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs H had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she may have  made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what she thought she was getting is not exactly  what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Hs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. As Ive 
also already explained, the information  Mrs H was given about  the cost and benefit was 
probably clear enough. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such  as the 
limitations and exclusions  possibly wasnt as clear as it should have been.   
Ref: DRN18709927Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs H thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded certain claims relating  to medical conditions  that they knew 
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if the 
policyholder wasnt  a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs H be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs H pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs H from taking out the policy. 
Nevertheless, the evidence about  Mrs Hs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for her. She appears to have been eligible 
for its benefits and it provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions,  could have 
proved valuable to her should the insured  risks have become a reality.  I also havent  seen  
any evidence to suggest she would have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  
theres no verifiable evidence she had any pre-existing medical conditions,  as defined by the 
policy, and she was in permanent employment.  So, I still think she had some good reasons 
to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs H might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs H 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs H, in her circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs H had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her 
respective job and any similar gainful occupation which  in the insurers view she might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into her thinking about what she would 
have done. And I accept  it may have given  her pause for thought  although its possible she 
may not have been overly concerned given that if she was unable (through disability) to 
carry on her own occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar  
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs H would still have thought  a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  she be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce outgoings  
at a difficult and uncertain  time.
Ref: DRN18709928Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if she was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs H 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. She say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs H would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs H 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs H believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs H in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs H compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs H think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs H, in the way 
Ref: DRN18709929it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2005 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs H and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs H in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1870992