K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that J D Williams & Company  Limited unfairly increased the interest  rate on 
her credit account.
background
Mrs B has a credit account  with J D Williams which  she opened some years  ago.
Mrs B told us she believed the interest rate on the account was around  25% per year.  
J D Williams have provided  evidence that it was in fact around 59%. 
In August  2018,  J D Williams wrote  to Mrs B to tell her they were increasing the rate to 
around 70%.  They said theyd reviewed her account  and the increased rate was based on 
an assessment of the risk associated with it.
The letter also said if Mrs B didnt agree with the increased interest rate, she could terminate 
the credit  agreement and pay the balance in full by the due date on her current  statement, 
which was within a month.
At the time,  Mrs B owed  over £800.  As a carer for her son, shes on benefits. Until late 2018,  
she had kept up with at least the minimum monthly  payments  on her account.
After the interest  rate increase, Mrs B fell behind on her repayments. She had seven lots of 
monthly interest  at the higher rate  added to her account. She also had some  late 
payment charges applied. 
Mrs B complained to J D Williams about  the rate increase in October 2018. J D Williams 
didnt uphold  that complaint. They told Mrs B theyd acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of her account. 
After some further contact, J D Williams agreed in April 2019 to set up a 6-month repayment  
plan for Mrs B. During that period, she was to pay £40 per month and no interest charges 
would be applied to the account. 
That arrangement was to be reviewed at the end of the 6-month period in September 2019. 
They also refunded the last of her seven monthly interest charges (around £50) as a gesture 
of goodwill.
Mrs B wasnt  happy with the outcome  of her complaint to J D Williams, so she brought it to 
us. Our investigator looked into it and thought J D Williams had treated Mrs B unfairly. 
She said they should reduce the six remaining interest charges between September  2018 
and April 2019 to the original interest rate (around 59%).  She also said they should continue 
to apply that lower  interest rate to all the items Mrs B bought  before  September 2018. And 
she thought they should  pay Mrs B £75 for her trouble and upset.
J D Williams disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN10681012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I should say that Ive looked  at the terms and conditions  which  Mrs B signed up to 
when she took out the account. Its clear  that those terms allow  J D Williams to increase their 
interest rates in the way they did with Mrs Bs account.
When we consider a complaint though, we do look beyond the strict  terms and conditions  
which may apply. In making  my decision in this case, its right for me to ask a broader 
question about  whether  J D Williams  have  acted fairly and reasonably in their dealings with 
Mrs B.
I think J D Williams acted very reasonably  in April 2019 when  they agreed the repayment 
plan for Mrs B. I believe  Mrs B would agree  shes been paying off the debt in line with that 
plan since it was agreed.
So I think my focus has to be on the period  between  J D Williams  writing  to Mrs B in August 
2018 to say her interest rate was going up through to April 2019 when the repayment plan 
was agreed. In this period, J D Williams charged  interest at the new higher rate.
I dont think that was fair given the circumstances  of this case  particularly Mrs Bs financial 
position. I also think the fact that they did later put Mrs B on a repayment plan (with 0% 
interest) probably shows that J D Williams didnt think it was fair once  theyd considered 
exactly what Mrs Bs circumstances  were.
Mrs B first complained to J D Williams in October 2019.  They might at that point have done  
more to explore  with Mrs B what her circumstances  were. 
They might also have  realised she might be struggling to meet her repayments before that. 
The fact that Mrs B had only been making the minimum repayment for some time 
contributed to J D Williams decision to regard her account as a risk when they reviewed  it. 
So they can hardly deny that they thought she might be struggling.
Im assuming theyve  now agreed  the repayment  plan because  of Mrs Bs financial position. 
And that is very much  to their credit. But I think they could have come to that conclusion  
sooner and not applied  six months higher interest  charges to her account.
In essence, increasing  Mrs Bs interest  rate in September 2018 - after theyd given her a 
month to pay off the whole debt of over £800  - was unfair in my view.  Mrs B hardly  had a 
choice at that point.  She couldnt have  paid off the full amount because  of her financial 
position. And I think J D Williams knew or should have known that.
I have to take into account  that Mrs B agreed  to the original rate of interest on the account  
(around 59%) and she was paying this through to September  2018.  I dont think it would be 
unreasonable for J D Williams to expect her to continue  to pay that rate of interest on the 
money shed borrowed.  But Im satisfied that in all the circumstances of this particular 
complaint  and in particular Mrs Bs financial position  it was unfair to increase that rate.
Ref: DRN10681013So, I agree  with our investigators view on this case.  And I agree J D Williams should reduce 
the debt Mrs B owes by the difference between the two interest rates  between  September 
2018 and April 2019. 
The current  repayment  plan is due for review  in September 2019.  I cant  predict what 
Mrs Bs circumstances will be by that point, so I cant say exactly  what  should  happen.  But I 
agree with our investigator that the interest to be charged by J D Williams  (on any debt 
incurred before September 2018) shouldnt exceed the c. 59% Mrs B originally signed  up to.
I also agree  that Mrs B has suffered a degree  of trouble and upset  as a result  of J D 
Williams actions. She has had to engage  with them in discussions about her circumstances 
and about the repayments to be made for a longer period  that might  have been  necessary. 
And during that time she suffered a degree of stress  and worry about  what  might happen 
with the debt. At the time,  Im sure it seemed  as though the debt might spiral  entirely  out of 
Mrs Bs control.
So, I think £75 compensation for Mrs Bs trouble and upset is reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Finally, I should mention  that since our investigator  communicated her view on the case,  J D 
Williams have brought to our attention  a decision by our service  in a similar case where  the 
complaint wasnt upheld.
Its important to remember we dont have a precedent-based system. One of the very good 
reasons for that is that all cases  will differ in their specifics. My decision is very much based  
on my view of Mrs Bs individual financial circumstances at the time of these events.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
J D Williams & Company  Limited must:
reduce the six interest charges applied between September 2018 and April 2019 to 
the original rate of interest (58.7%);
after September 2019, if they decide  not to continue with the current repayment  plan 
taking into account Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, allow  Mrs B an opportunity to 
pay back any remaining debt within a reasonable time and at no more  than the 
original interest rate (58.7%);
pay Mrs B £75 compensation for her trouble  and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1068101