K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complained because Accord Mortgages  Limited arranged  for a standard valuation on 
her property, when shed asked for the more  detailed  Home Buyers  report. She also 
complained because Accord didnt provide her with support about  the problem.
background
Mrs Ks husband had to retire on medical  grounds. Mrs K retired too, in order  to become his 
full-time carer.
Mr and Mrs K had an existing Accord mortgage.  They needed to downsize to a more 
manageable property in view of Mr Ks medical  situation. They  also needed to move a 
different area, so theyd be closer to family  and have  more  support for Mr K. Mr and Mrs K 
contacted Accord  about transferring (porting) their existing mortgage to the new property. 
Mrs K had power of attorney for her husband.
After discussions about the application, in August 2018 Accord  completed  an application 
form for Mrs K to check and sign. Mrs K rang Accord  on 15 August about  the form. Accords  
notes record that Mrs K said she almost feel Ive been sent someone elses application as 
so much of the information is incorrect. Accord told Mrs K to change and initial changes.
Mrs K wanted a Home  Buyers  report, not a standard valuation, on their prospective 
purchase, so she sent Accord a cheque for £575, which  was the fee for a Home Buyers 
Report. The fee for a standard valuation would have  been £330.  Accord doesnt have a 
record of when it received  this, but it was credited to the account  on 22 August.
There were multiple discussions about legal issues, including whether the mortgage was to 
be in joint names, using the power  of attorney which Mrs K held for her husband,  or whether 
it was to be in Mrs Ks sole name.
On 11 September,  Accord instructed its surveyor to carry out a standard  valuation  on 
Mrs Ks property.  The next day it sent Mrs K a cheque for £245, which was the difference 
between the price of the standard valuation, and what Mrs K had paid several weeks  earlier  
for a Home  Buyers Report. Accord didnt get in touch  with Mrs K before it did this.
Mrs K rang Accord as soon as she received the cheque on 13 September, to ask why it had 
refunded the cheque. She said shed always asked for a Home Buyers  report. Accord took 
payment again  for the £245 it had refunded. It rang its surveyor  to ask it to cancel the 
standard valuation,  and said it would  be sending an electronic instruction for a Home  Buyers 
report.
On 12 September  Mrs K signed  the application form. I dont have a copy  of the version  she 
was sent in August, where  she said there were multiple mistakes. The one I have is a 20 
page form with a pre-filled date at the top saying 4 September. It has a handwritten note at 
the top New app form. Under Valuation details on page 12, theres a question What  type 
of valuation have  you had / do you require? and a pre-printed x has been put in the box 
Mortgage  valuation, not the House  buyer  survey  or Building survey boxes.
The questions immediately below are about  where can the valuer obtain keys;  solicitors 
details; and vendors  name. These  three sections have been filled in in handwriting which  is 
Ref: DRN12026192very different from the copies of Mrs Ks signature, so I assume someone from Accord  
completed this.
The copy  sent to us isnt signed. Accord told me that Mrs K signed the wrong section on 
11 September, and was asked if shed like the relevant sections for signing to be sent out to 
her. She signed the signature box on 12 September.
Mrs K didnt see a copy of the survey before her mortgage completed. She and Mr K moved 
home a matter of weeks after she signed  the application form. After  they moved in, there 
were problems with the property. Mrs K asked Accord  if she was entitled  to see a copy of the 
survey. Accord told her she should  have had a copy with the mortgage  offer,  and sent a 
copy. This showed  that what had been  carried out had been a standard valuation  not the 
Home Buyers  report  Mrs K had always wanted and had paid for. She rang Accord.
But Accord  told Mrs K that responsibility  for carrying out the correct survey lay with the 
surveyors  not with them. On 29 October, Accord forwarded Mrs Ks complaint to the 
surveyors, saying she is distressed as she is relying on the information from the Home 
Buyers to address any issues the property may have as her husband has [Mr Ks medical 
condition]. As such there may be potential concerns about the safety of the property that a 
standard valuation  hasnt  addressed. Were forwarding  the complaint on to you to 
investigate.
The surveyors refunded  Mrs K £245,  which  was the difference between  the Home Buyers 
report shed paid for and the standard valuation. Accord issued a final response letter to 
Mrs K on 20 November, which recorded  that this was what  the surveyors  had done. Accords 
reply also said that it had asked the surveyors to carry out a Home Buyers  report, and 
although this wouldnt give Mrs K the opportunity to change  her mind about  buying the 
property, it hoped this would give her peace  of mind. It also said that if any defects  or 
problems were highlighted by the survey, well be able to discuss  options to move forward  
at that point.
But Mrs K struggled to get any further forward. Accords surveyors  told her they wouldnt be 
the best firm to carry out a Home Buyers survey, as theyd done the valuation.  They  told 
Mrs K she had to arrange her own independent  survey.
Mrs K didnt understand what the agreements were  between Accord and its surveyors,  but 
she wasnt happy that shed have to source her own independent  surveyor. She was worried  
that defects could come to light which she should have known about before buying the 
property. The surveyors told Mrs K that they wouldnt  speak to her, and that her contract  was 
with Accord.
But Accord  told Mrs K that the surveyors had admitted theyd done the wrong survey,  so it 
was the surveyors  fault. So neither organisation was willing to address the issues Mrs K was 
facing.
Mrs K contacted Accord a number  of times, saying she was unhappy  she was having to find 
and choose a suitable surveyor,  and arrange  a Home buyers survey herself. Accord  told her 
to get in touch  again  when shed arranged a survey,  but it did say it would refund the cost.
Mrs K eventually arranged a Home Buyers report which took place on 4 January 2019,  and 
Accord refunded the fee.
Ref: DRN12026193When Mrs K received the survey report, she contacted Accord again, because  the report 
highlighted several areas  of concern.  If Mrs K had known about  those  before  buying the 
property, she believed  she could  have negotiated  the price with the vendor,  or even chosen 
a different property.
But despite  having said well be able to discuss options to move  forward at that point in its 
final response letter in November, Accord told Mrs K it had forwarded  her complaint to the 
surveyors. And it told Mrs K that Accord  couldnt get involved any further, although the 
surveyors had told Mrs K they wouldnt speak to her about it. Accord suggested Mrs K 
should seek independent legal advice instead.
Mrs K contacted this service about  the problems she was having.
The investigators view was that Accord had instructed the surveyors correctly, so Accord  
wasnt responsible  for what had happened. So he didnt uphold  Mrs Ks complaint.
Mrs K asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing  so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. There was a considerable amount of information  which  was 
missing, and the chronology I set out in my provisional decision hadnt been  at all clear.  I 
had asked Accord for several items  of further  information on two occasions.
I separated this complaint into three parts:
- events leading  up to the wrong  survey being completed, and whether Accord was at 
fault;
- responsibility for the wrong survey  being  done and any consequent liability arising 
from that;
- Accords service  to Mrs K after the problem  became apparent.
events leading up to the wrong  survey being completed, and whether Accord was at fault 
I accepted that Mrs K had always wanted a Home Buyers report. She sent a cheque for 
£575, the price  of the Home Buyers report, at an early stage. Accord received this at some  
point before 22 August when it credited it to her account.
I didnt have a copy of the first application  form which Accord completed  for Mrs K and sent 
out for her to sign in August. The copy pre-printed with a date of 4 September  did show a 
pre-filled box requesting a standard valuation. Accord  made  an error when it put this on the 
application form when  Mrs K wanted a Home Buyers report. Accord  also made  other 
mistakes on this pre-filled  form.
It could be argued that Mrs K should  have checked  the application form and corrected 
Accords mistake. Certainly its a consumers responsibility to check whatever they sign, 
though I noted that when Mrs K was asked to sign the form on 11 September,  she was only 
sent the one signature page to sign. And Mrs K had told Accord  there were so many 
Ref: DRN12026194mistakes on the August  form that she thought it was someone elses form. The relevant 
page of the September  form which was sent to me had what  looked  like someone elses 
writing on the page, not Mrs Ks. So I didnt find that Mrs K was at fault for not checking  the 
application form. And in any case, Accord sent off instruction for the wrong  survey  before 
Mrs K had signed the form.
I also considered that Accord  made a serious error  when it failed to contact Mrs K when it 
received her cheque for £575  in August. Given that Accord  must  have wrongly  recorded  that 
she wanted a standard  valuation, it was incomprehensible that it failed to get in touch with 
her immediately in August  when it received her cheque for a Home Buyers  report  rather 
than the standard valuation. It did nothing at that point. 
Having failed to sort out the issue when  Mrs Ks cheque arrived  in mid-August, Accord then 
took some  time before instructing the surveyors. Some of this was to do with legal  issues  
over the name the mortgage was to be in. It was 11 September  by the time Accord wrongly 
sent off for the standard valuation, and sent Mrs K a partial refund. I found  that it was sloppy 
practice just to assume the consumer was wrong, and to refund the cheque without asking 
her. Its most unlikely  that a consumer would pay the price of a Home Buyers report when 
wanting a standard valuation.
I went on to deal with what happened  with the instructions and cancellations  between  Accord  
and its surveyors. But I thought it was likely that if Accord  had initially sent the correct  
instruction for a Home Buyers report to the surveyors,  the surveyors  would have been much 
less likely to have done the wrong  valuation.
So, in summary,  I found that Accord made  errors in:
- pre-filling the application form to say Mrs K wanted a standard  valuation when shed 
always said she wanted a Home Buyers report;
- failing to investigate why Mrs K sent a cheque for £575 (the cost of a Home  Buyers 
report), when it received this in August;
- instructing a standard valuation on 11 September;
responsibility for the wrong survey  being  done  and any consequent liability arising from that 
When Mrs K received the £245 refund, she got in touch with Accord  straightaway.  Accord 
had already wrongly told its surveyor to complete a standard valuation on 11 September.  
Accords process for corrections was that changes and cancellations were  done by phone, 
but instructions  were  submitted  electronically.  One of the things I requested from Accord was 
the phone  recording  to prove  that it had told the surveyor  that the incorrect  instruction for a 
standard valuation  was to be cancelled. Accord provided the call. This did indeed  prove  that 
Accord had cancelled the standard valuation by phone.  Accord  also provided  a screenshot  
showing Accord instructed the surveyors to carry  out a Home  Buyers  report. So I accepted 
that it was the surveyors who made the mistake  of carrying out a standard  valuation, when 
what they had been instructed to do was a Home Buyers report.
I recognised that when  Mrs K got the Home Buyers report in January 2019,  it raised  issues  
with the property which would have meant Mrs K could have acted  differently  before buying 
the property. She might  have decided not to go ahead, or she might have negotiated on the 
price. But the fault and any liability  for this financial loss do lie with the surveyors  who made 
the mistake. This service  doesnt have the authority  to consider complaints about  the work of 
Ref: DRN12026195surveyors. So I explained that I couldnt consider that part of Mrs Ks complaint, and that 
shed need to raise  it with the Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors.
Accords service  to Mrs K after the problem  became  apparent
It was clear that it was very frustrating for Mrs K that she didnt get enough  help with the 
problems after the wrong survey  was done. I recognised  that it was the surveyors who had 
failed to implement  Accords  cancellation  of the wrong valuation,  so financial issues  arising  
from that error do rest with the surveyors.
Technically, Accord wasnt responsible for the mistake and so had no obligation  to correct it 
or deal with any consequences  of the mistake. However, having offered to help, it gave itself 
that obligation. Apart from paying  for the replacement Home Buyers report,  Accord  washed 
its hands of the matter.  And apart from the actual  survey, I find that Accord  could, and 
should, have provided better customer service to Mrs K despite the fact that the surveyors  
had made  the mistake,  for the following reasons.
Mrs K was a vulnerable  consumer, and Accord knew that. Mr and Mrs K were existing 
mortgage customers of Accord. Accord had been  well aware  of the medical  and personal 
circumstances, and that the reason  theyd  moved to a completely different part of the country 
was in order to have greater family support. Accords staff also had to discuss many details 
of the medical  and personal situation with Mrs K. Accords notes record  that she  was very 
upset when discussing all the above. So Accord knew  that Mr and Mrs K were in a very 
distressing situation,  and that Mrs K was a vulnerable customer.
I considered there were  ways in which Accord could have helped  Mrs K, without admitting 
liability about the surveyors valuation mistake. For example, it could have told her how to 
find and choose  a surveyor. This would have been hard for Mrs K, who had moved to a 
completely different part of the country,  who hadnt  done it before, and who was more  than 
fully occupied with her husbands  illness. Mrs K was understandably shocked  that the wrong 
survey had been carried out, and worried that she might have made  a big mistake  in buying 
the property, through no fault of her own. She had paid the £575 fee for the Home Buyers 
report, and had corrected Accord in September  when  it had got the valuation wrong. So she 
wouldnt have been expecting this trouble and worry. I considered Accord  should have been 
more sympathetic and helpful to an existing vulnerable customer  in distress.
And when  Mrs K did source  a surveyor and the report showed issues, Accord  didnt honour 
what it had said in its final response that well be able to discuss  options to move forward  at 
that point. Instead,  it simply forwarded the complaint to the surveyors  who had told Mrs K 
they wouldnt talk to her. All Accord told this vulnerable consumer was that it couldnt  get 
involved further and Mrs K would have to seek independent legal advice. So I found that 
Accord let Mrs K down.
Compensation
I explained that for the reasons set out above, the compensation  I said I intended to award 
didnt include any element relating to the surveyors  errors, or any financial loss which  Mrs K 
may have  suffered as a result of not having  the Home Buyers  report before she bought the 
property. That was because this service doesnt have the power to deal with complaints 
against surveyors, and Mrs K would need  to approach the Royal Institute of Chartered 
Surveyors about that.
Ref: DRN12026196I did, however, find that Accord  caused  Mrs K considerable  distress  and inconvenience. This 
was both in the errors it made  before the survey was completed, and in its customer  service 
to Mrs K after the problem  became apparent. When this service considers compensation, we 
look at the individual circumstances of each  case. Here, Mrs K had a very difficult  personal 
situation. She had given  up work  to be the carer for her sick husband, and was managing a 
move for them to a different area in order to be near family. The situation had dragged on, 
and it was particularly  distressing for Mrs K to worry whether the property they had bought 
might be unsuitable  for her husbands needs. She was a vulnerable  consumer, and Accord 
made mistakes and ultimately  turned its back on her. So I said that subject to any comments 
that the parties might send before the date for responses to my provisional decision, I 
intended to order  that Accord should pay Mrs K £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her.
responses to my provisional  decision
Accord agreed to pay Mrs K £750  compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused her.
Mrs K sent more information about  the most  significant calls and conversations that shed 
had with Accord over the previous ten months.  She said shed  made the survey payments to 
Accord, so she had believed her contract had been with Accord. She explained that she was 
angry that Accord had ultimately told her shed have  to sort out the issues  herself.  Shed had 
to make more than 50 phone calls regarding the complaint.
Both Accord and Mrs K provided some clarification about the fees paid, for which Im 
grateful. Their comments are reflected in the background section above.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mrs K is very upset and angry  about  what happened,  and this is 
understandable. But I consider that my initial conclusions in the provisional decision are fair 
and reasonable.  So I see no reason to depart from the conclusions in that decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I order Accord Mortgages  Limited to pay Mrs K £750 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience it caused  her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1202619