K820x#14complaint
Mr W says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1998 at the same time as Mr W applied  for 
a credit card. It gave him accident, sickness and unemployment protection. Neither party  can 
confirm how or where the policy was sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed so the complaint was passed  to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  I have 
based my decision  on the balance  of probabilities   in other  words,  on what I consider is 
most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mr W says the PPI was added without his knowledge  or consent. RBS disputes  this. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ws comment but I also have to take into account  how 
long ago the sale was and how this might affect what he recalls.  There  is very little 
information available about the sale, but without stronger evidence that RBS didnt 
make it clear  the PPI was optional and Mr W didnt  agree  to take it out I cant fairly 
uphold the complaint  on this point. 
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for 
him. It was up to Mr W to decide  whether the policy was right for him bearing in mind  
his ability  to make his credit card repayments if he was unable to work or lost his job. 
Its possible  RBS didnt give Mr W all the information about  the PPI that he needed 
before he made his decision. But it seems Mr W chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have  wanted this type of cover.  He wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced  and apparently 
affordable. Mr W cant recall  if he was entitled to any sick pay and had no savings. 
So, overall, based on what  I know about  his circumstances  and the terms of the PPI 
policy, I dont  think Mr W wouldve  made  a different decision  if better information had 
been provided. 
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN14761752To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr W any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1476175