K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about how U K Insurance Limited  trading as Churchill (UKI) has handled 
claims hes made on his motor insurance.
background
Mr C was insured with UKI. In recent years hes had cause to make a few claims on his 
insurance, and he complains about how theyve  been handled.
Mr C made  a claim in 2016  when,  he says, his car was hit by another driver driving 
carelessly. His car was then repaired,  but UKI registered the claim as being joint liability.  
This complaint is about two further  claims, made in 2017 and 2018. The 2017 claim relates 
to an incident  where  another  driver hit Mr Cs car as they were driving in opposite  directions, 
knocking his wing mirror  off. The other  driver didnt make a claim. Mr C complains about the 
time it took UKI to deal with this claim.  He says it took several  months and in the end he 
replaced the wing mirror  himself. UKI accepts that its customer service was poor and it 
offered £150 compensation,  and to reimburse  the cost of the wing mirror  just under £185.
Mr C made  a further claim about  an incident  in February 2018 when, he says,  another driver 
reversed into him while  he was stationary in traffic. Again, it took several months to resolve 
this claim.  Eventually, UKI agreed  to repair Mr Cs car and it was taken into the garage  for 
that to happen.  Mr C complained about  delays and about the increase in his premium  he 
decided not to accept the renewal offer and went to another insurer.
Our investigator thought UKI had done  enough to put matters  right by offering compensation 
for the 2017 claim.  She thought the 2018  claim had been handled reasonably  because  the 
delays were caused by UKI waiting for replies from the third partys insurer.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said that I thought UKI had done  enough  in respect  
of the 2017 claim. I thought its offer to reimburse Mr C the cost of the wing mirror he 
replaced himself, plus £150  compensation, was fair in the circumstances. I indicated that I 
was considering requiring it to pay a further £150  compensation  in respect  of the handling of 
the 2018 claim. I thought  the outcome of the claim was fair, but that it could have  been  
resolved more quickly.
Neither party was happy with that. Mr C didnt think the compensation was enough. He said 
that UKI should  have taken his car in for repair straightaway in respect of the 2017 claim  if 
it had done so, other scratches would have  been repaired too, and he would have had a 
courtesy car while the repairs  were done.  He lives in a rural location where being without a 
car is very inconvenient. The other  driver was at fault but he had lost out because of UKIs  
delays.
In respect of the 2018 claim, Mr C said UKI should have accepted liability straightaway  the 
other driver had written him a letter of apology  and so it should have repaired the car 
immediately.
UKI didnt  think its handling  of the 2018  claim was unreasonable. It provided claims handling 
notes showing that it had contacted the third party  drivers insurer  as soon as it was notified  
of the claim and had chased the other insurer to get a reply.
Ref: DRN15534782Having reviewed the notes, I no longer thought UKI had delayed in handling the 2018 claim. 
I thought it had progressed it in a reasonable time and had done what it could to get a 
response from the third party insurer. So I let the parties know that I was no longer minded to 
award £150 compensation for the handling  of the 2018 claim. Mr C responded to say that he 
didnt agree. He reiterated what he had said about  both the 2017 and 2018 claims.  He said 
there could  have been no doubt about liability for the 2018 accident  in light of the evidence 
he had provided,  and UKI could have contacted the third party direct if it doubted what he 
said. His claim should have been settled straightaway.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In respect of the 2017 claim, I think UKI could  have done more  to resolve this. Its clear from 
the claim handling records that it wasnt  dealing  with it pro-actively, and was only taking 
action when chased by Mr C and his son. 
I dont agree, however, that it should have settled either  claim in Mr Cs favour immediately. 
Mr C was present at the time of both incidents, of course, and gave his version of events to 
UKI straightaway. But its reasonable for UKI to want to investigate the full circumstances  
including finding  out whether the third parties  agreed  with Mr Cs version  of events.  
In the case of the 2018 claim, the third partys insurer initially reported that the driver  didnt  
agree with Mr Cs version of events. He accepted reversing into Mr C, but said that Mr C 
hadnt been stationary at the time  he had been moving forward  even though the other 
driver had been reversing.  
UKI didnt  accept the other drivers version  of events; it negotiated  with the other  insurer  and 
after about three months the claim was resolved in Mr Cs favour. This could have happened 
more quickly, but in this case the delays were all due to the third partys  insurer   UKI was 
following up the claim to try to get it resolved. I dont agree that UKI should  have cut out the 
insurer and contacted the third party direct, since the insurer is liable on the third partys  
behalf for claims against him.
I understand Mr Cs frustration that his car wasnt repaired  sooner. In both cases  it was open 
to him to have it repaired immediately,  but he would have had to pay the excess. In both 
cases he didnt want to do that because he didnt consider he was at fault. But UKI cant  
decide whether  it agrees with that until its investigated all the circumstances  including  
speaking to the other insurer.  If it agrees  Mr C wasnt at fault, the excess  could be refunded.  
I think thats fair and not unusual in the handling  of claims.
Mr C decided he didnt want to pay the excess,  and so nothing could be done  to repair his 
car until liability had been decided. In the 2017 claim, that took too long and Mr C had the 
repairs carried out himself   for which UKI reimbursed him in full, effectively waiving the 
excess, as well as paying £150 compensation. 
But in respect  of the 2018 claim, UKI acted  reasonably, and reasonably  promptly, in 
investigating the claim and then deciding  to settle it in Mr Cs favour  on a no-fault basis. As I 
think it has already put right what went wrong, I dont think it would be fair to uphold  this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN15534783my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1553478