K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
background
Mr B owns  two high powered luxury  sports cars of different makes, the cars could 
reasonably be described as supercars. I will refer to the cars as L and F. 
Mr B insured  both cars with Admiral.  The cars were  significantly damaged  in a malicious 
attack (the attack) - using a chemical  substance  - in June 2017.  Mr B claimed on his policies. 
Admiral investigated  Mr Bs claims. Mr B was unhappy with Admirals  progress. Amongst 
other things  he complained that Admiral had asked him on several occasions for information  
hed already supplied or evidence he said he was unable to locate. He brought his complaint 
about that to us.
We set up two different  complaints, one for each car. In this decision I will focus on Mr Bs 
claim for the damage to L and will produce  a separate  decision regarding the claim for F. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint. While she was doing  so Admiral 
accepted it should settle Mr Bs claim. But our involvement in the complaint didn't end there. 
Instead the complaint now incorporates many other points including, amongst other things, 
Admirals service, the extent of the pre-existing damage to L, further damage caused  by 
Admiral, and Ls total loss categorisation and value.
As well as commenting on Admirals service  our investigator didn't think Admiral  had valued 
L fairly. She noted it had initially valued it at £33,775. Our investigator  thought  Admiral  
should increase  that sum to the amount Mr B had initially bought  the car for in 2013, which 
was £44,230.  She also said it should reimburse Mr B for the cost of an independent  
engineers report  hed paid for. And she said Admiral should add simple  interest  to its 
settlement.
Mr B didn't  agree with our investigator's  assessment of the complaint;  so it was passed  to 
one of my ombudsman colleagues  to determine. While the complaint has been  with my 
colleague for consideration the case has continued  to evolve as matters have moved on.
In March 2020 my colleague issued a provisional decision. In summary his conclusions  were 
that Admiral should:
Ref: DRN10768272Settle Mr Bs total loss claim on the basis  that L was a total loss prior to the attack, with 
a pre-incident  market  value of £44,230.  He said Admiral  should  add simple interest to its 
settlement from the date of claim until the date Admiral  made payment.
Reimburse Mr B the full cost of the engineers  report. And add simple interest to that 
from the date Mr B paid for it until the date Admiral refunded him.
Pay Mr B £500 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he experienced.
Mr B didn't  agree with my colleagues provisional decision and sent us further evidence to 
support his arguments. Admiral said it had already paid Mr B £1,000 compensation (in 
respect of both cars) to address his distress  and inconvenience. 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 December 2020. For ease I've copied my provisional  
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill uphold it.  
Mr Bs claim and complaint has been  ongoing  for over three years.  During that period there  
have been a number of developments which have  given rise to further  actions, comments, 
concerns and complaints. As a result our file(s)  run to thousands of pages. And while Ive 
considered everything  thats before me, in this provisional decision I don't intend to address 
each and every event or issue  raised.  Instead  I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
issues at the heart of Mr Bs complaint that require  my attention.
Id like to start by apologising to both Mr B and Admiral for the time its taken us to review  
this complaint. While  our ability to complete our review  has been significantly affected  by the 
pandemic, I can see that the additional  time taken has been particularly frustrating for Mr B 
and Im sorry about that.
pre-incident market value  and salvage category
Mr Bs policy  says that in the event of a successful claim it will arrange or pay for repairs  to 
his car. But if the car is a total loss it will settle any claim for Ls pre-incident market  value 
(less any excess). Admiral arranged for L to be taken for assessment  by independent 
engineers - who Ill refer to as B. B estimated the cost to repair  L was over £126,000. B said 
Ls pre-incident value  was £77,200. It said L should be considered a total loss.
Admiral noted that when  Mr B had bought the car it had recently been damaged in an 
accident and deemed to be a category C total loss (cat C). At that time cat C meant that 
while the car had suffered significant  enough  damage to make it uneconomical for an insurer 
to repair, it remained repairable and could be put back on the road safely. Mr B had bought L 
with a view to repairing  it. B noted  that while L had passed  its MOT  on three  occasions  since  
Mr B owned  it, L hadn't been taxed. Admiral asked another  engineering firm - who Ill refer to 
as G  to carry out a more detailed inspection of L to determine  its condition before the 
attack. 
Having done so G said L was a category B total loss (cat B) prior to the attack. A cat B 
means a car can be broken for parts but isn't safe to be repaired and returned to the road. In 
his report Gs engineer referred to an earlier inspection of L in 2014 following a fire in Ls 
exhaust system. Gs engineer identified numerous  issues with L, some of which  dated back  
to 2014 including, amongst others  that: the car had a poor standard of previous repairs; 
structural repairs had been completed  with filler; a bolt securing steering components was 
Ref: DRN10768273the wrong size and unsafe; the rear sub frame was misaligned; the chassis, suspension 
struts and other components were  corroded; and the clutch  slipped. G concluded that Ls 
condition before the attack rendered it a cat B at that stage, and as such the car only had 
scrap value, which G said was £33,775.  Admiral  arranged for the car to be returned to Mr B. 
When it did so the car was no longer  running.
Mr B was very unhappy  with Gs assessment of his car and he put a number of questions  to 
Gs engineer about his findings. Mr B noted  that previous  inspections  of the car, in 2013  
before it was sold to him, 2014 (following  the exhaust fire) and 2016 (in relation to a court  
case) hadn't deemed it a cat B. He said hed had no work done  on the chassis and asked 
why G now considered the car was a cat B. Amongst  other  things G replied that:
there would  appear  to have been no action taken to address the poor quality 
structural repairs. Had this been taken it may have prevented the vehicle 
deteriorating to the extent  found at the time of my examination
Mr B instructed another firm of engineers, who Ill refer to as E, to examine L. E had access  
to Gs reports. Es engineer noted that Mr B told them that following  the fire in 2014 hed had 
some work done on the car by a local garage. That work had led to a court  case concerning  
the quality of that work, which had only concluded  around four weeks before the attack.  And, 
to preserve the evidence for that court case,  he hadn't  had some  of the repair  work  identified 
in the earlier  reports, done  to the car. He said that as it had only been  weeks  since  the 
conclusion of the court case he hadn't yet had a chance to have the necessary  work  done 
before the attack. But he had planned  to do it. 
E agreed  with G about some of the cars issues, for example  that the undersized  bolt on the 
steering component rendered the car unsafe.  But it didn't agree with G on every point. For 
example, it didn't find the use of filler extensive.  Es engineer added  that he didn't find 
evidence that any surface  corrosion to the chassis meant that the car wasn't repairable. And 
while Es engineer  said that the chassis did require further investigation into its alignment  he 
said that a chassis  on such a high value car was a replaceable component. So Es engineer  
concluded the car was repairable. And, taking account of the fact that the car was a previous 
cat C total loss, and the additional work the car required to repair all its faults, E placed a 
pre-incident valuation on L of £80,000.
In his provisional decision my colleague  noted E and G had come to different conclusions. 
And having weighed the evidence, he decided he preferred Gs conclusions to Es. That is 
my colleague thought  that, prior to the attack, L was a cat B total loss. And he felt Admiral  
should give L a pre-incident value equivalent  to the sum Mr B bought  the car for in 2013, 
which was £44,320.
Mr B didn't  agree with my colleagues provisional decision. And, amongst other things, he 
instructed another independent engineering  firm, which  Ill call N, to inspect the car. 
Ns engineer said that L was repairable before the attack. And some  of his other comments  
were:
The cars chassis alignment was acceptable.
The rear frame had been damaged and its camber  angle  adjusted.  He said that this 
was something of a compromise. 
The rear steel framework was rusty.  He said the rust wasn't extensive enough to be 
classed as corrosion.  But he recommended  replacing the rear support frame  which  
Ref: DRN10768274he said would remove the requirement  for any further suspension and/or wheel and 
hub alignment  or further compromise.  He said generally the rust on the car was 
treatable.
He noted that two structural components,  called  A and B posts, repairs  had been 
completed with filler. But he estimated the dept of that filler to be no more than 
400 microns, which he said was around  the dept of four sheets of A4. He said the 
filler was used to smooth out scratches,  which he said was quite acceptable  and 
didn't ring any alarm bells.
As the car wasn't running he couldn't test the clutch. But he noted Gs comments 
about it and said that there could be other issues which caused  the clutch  to slip and 
said it didn't necessarily require replacing.  
The exhaust components which had caused the earlier  fire had been  replaced.
The central rear brake  fluid pipe was corroded  and would benefit from being  
replaced. 
Ns engineer said hed researched how much similar  cars to L were being  advertised for. 
And after allowing  for: possible increase in value over time; the former cat C marker; repairs 
to the sub frame, clutch and other parts, he valued  the car prior to the attack  at £85,163.
Admiral didn't agree with Ns conclusions. It said Ns engineer:
Didn't comment on Gs opinion that rear handbrake  cables were corroded  but agreed  
that the brake pipe was corroded  and required replacing. 
Said the suspension struts were  covered  in surface rust appropriate for their age but 
didn't say whether they were corroded. 
Couldn't comment on the suspensions effectiveness.  
Commented on the chassis alignment  but not on Gs findings  that the chassis  had 
heavy corrosion to such an extent that the component had been compromised and 
was holed. 
Commented on the rear steel framework on the underside of the car but not on Gs 
comments relating to the front of the car.
Recommended replacing the rear subframe at a cost of some  £16,000, which  would 
echo Gs findings.  
Estimated the thickness of the filler used in the structural components but did not 
provide a decisive opinion on whether that sort of repair was suitable. 
Said that filler had been used but didn't  comment on the extent. 
Admiral added that in saying  the car wasn't  a cat B Ns engineer didn't appear to have  
considered the level of damage caused  by the attack. Admiral added that in arriving  at his 
valuation Ns engineer had started  by referring  to adverts for similar cars but hadn't provided 
copies of those  adverts.  It said Ns engineers starting valuation (before making deductions)  
was higher than Es and Mr Bs own valuation. And that his starting price would be for a car 
in pristine condition. 
Admirals comments  don't  persuade me that Ns report is unreliable. I agree Ns engineer  
didn't specifically comment on the condition  of the rear handbrake cables, although  he did 
comment that a brake pipe required  replacement.  I can't  say for certain why he omitted  that 
point, but I note he did comment that hed read Gs report. Similarly, I noted Ns engineer 
commented on rust on some suspension  components without saying whether or not they 
were corroded. But elsewhere in the report he explained that in engineering  terms corrosion  
refers to significantly damaged parts, rather than just those showing rust, And he did make a 
Ref: DRN10768275specific finding that the brake pipe was corroded.  It follows that if he thought other 
components were corroded I think he would have said so. 
Further, I note Ns engineer didn't comment on any corrosion  of Ls chassis  toward the front 
of the car. But again, I think that if he'd thought that it was significantly corroded he'd have  
remarked on that. Ill add that it's not unusual for different engineers to reach different 
conclusions about  whether damage exists and the extent of that. And in this instance  I've 
noted that N did find that some chassis/sub  frame  work was required.  And that was also a 
finding of E. But both E and N factored that work  in when  arriving  at their valuations. 
However, G felt the damage was so bad the car should be a cat B, but his opinion  isn't 
shared by the other two engineers, who both said the car was repairable. 
Admiral said Ns engineer only estimated the depth of filler used in repair  of the structural  
posts. I agree that's the case, but the engineer  explained how he arrived  at that estimation. 
And I note G doesn't appear to have commented  on the depth of filler used  in the repair. So, 
I'm not certain why Admiral thinks the fact Ns engineer  only estimated the depth of filler 
makes his findings in any way unreliable.  Admiral  added  that Ns engineer didn't offer a 
decisive opinion on whether that sort of repair was suitable. But I think he did. In fact, he said 
the repair was quite acceptable  and shouldnt ring any alarm  bells.
Admiral also said Ns engineer didn't explain why the damage from the attack rendered the 
car a cat C rather than a cat B. I agree  that's  the case. But I don't think he needed to. In 
categorising the car as a cat C, the engineer is clearly giving his professional  opinion  that the 
state of this particular  car didn't render it unsafe to ever be returned to the road. Even if such 
repair would be extremely expensive. So, while Ive noted that the engineers haven't  all 
arrived at the same  conclusions I see no reason to dismiss Ns findings.
Ive thought extremely carefully about  what a fair and reasonable valuation  of Mr Bs car was 
prior to the attack. And Ive considered every piece of relevant evidence  when doing so. In 
particular I've thought about  whether or not Gs conclusion, that L was a cat B at the time of 
the attack, was reasonable. I don't think it was. In arriving at that point I've noted that G, E 
and Ns engineers all referred to issues with the cars chassis  and frame. But both E and N 
have said that this is repairable. That is, with the appropriate remedial work, the car could be 
repaired safely to bring it to a roadworthy  condition. 
I understand that, in a more common everyday road car, fundamental damage to a cars 
structural components might mean that it should be correctly categorised as a cat B, for fear 
it would  be put back onto the road in an unsafe condition.  L isn't an everyday road car. Its a 
supercar. And Im persuaded by Es comments that, on such  a high value car, a chassis  is a 
replaceable item. So, I don't find the fact that the car was in need of structural repairs means 
that it wasnt safe to ever be repaired.  It follows that I'm persuaded by the conclusion of both 
E and N that L wasn't a cat B before the attack.
I've gone  on to consider  the cars valuation. Our usual approach when looking at valuations  
is to consider the recognised industry  trade guides  for valuing second hand cars. But as I've 
said above. L isn't an everyday road car, its a supercar. And the production  run of a car of 
that type is limited.  That means that similar  cars to L aren't always  available  on the market. 
And as such there isn't a huge amount of data available for the trade guides to reach a 
valuation. So, in the specific circumstances of this case Im not going  to rely on the guides  
when looking at a fair valuation.  Instead  Ill consider the evidence  of the four engineers 
whove valued  the car. Theyve provided the following valuations: 
Ref: DRN10768276B £77,200
G £33,775
E £80,000
N £85,163
Admirals argument is that only Gs valuation applies, as that was the salvage value for the 
car as a cat B. But as I've said above  Im satisfied that it wasn't reasonable to say the car 
was a cat B prior to the attack.  So I've disregarded that valuation. 
The other three valuations  are all within around  10% of each other.  I note theyve all used 
different starting  points  for their valuations and have all arrived at different deductions 
because of the cars history and the repair work  required. But, as my colleague said in his 
provisional decision, valuing second hand cars isn't an exact science. And theres  often 
significant variance  between  the valuations put onto cars, particularly where,  as here,  they 
are uncommon and/or  require additional  work. And it seems  that all the engineers involved 
have considered adverts for cars on the market  at different times. But in a case  such  as this, 
I think a variance of roughly 10% is actually fairly narrow and, in those circumstances, I think  
that a fair way to find a reasonable valuation is to take an average of the three figures above, 
which is £80,778. It follows thats  the sum I think Admiral should  use as the pre-incident  
value of L when settling Mr Bs claim for its total loss. It should  add simple interest to its 
settlement at a rate of 8% a year from the date of claim  to the date it makes payment to him. 
Further, Mr B had to pay for two reports in order to challenge Admirals  unfair  valuation.  So I 
think Admiral should  reimburse Mr B for the costs of those reports. It should add simple 
interest to its settlement from the date Mr B paid for those reports  to the date it refunds him.
Mr Bs argued that Admiral should  increase its settlement because cars like his are actually 
appreciating. So, he thinks Admiral should recognise that and settle his claim for what  Ls 
worth now rather  than its value at the date of his claim. But its standard for insurance 
settlements to be based on the date of loss rather than the date of payment.  And my award 
of interest covers not only Mr Bs loss of use of the funds but also any appreciation that the 
car might have benefited from in the meantime.   
Similarly, I'm aware Mr B had spent considerable sums repairing the car before its attack. 
He's provided receipts and invoices for parts and labour amounting to over £25,000 and he 
says hes spent a further £5,000 for other  work where he's no longer able to locate the 
receipts. I accept thats the case. But any work Mr B had done to the car previously has only 
added to its value  at the date of loss. If he hadn't had that work done then it's likely  the 
valuations would have  been lower. So I don't intend  to increase my award as a result. 
damage to L while it was in Admirals care
After Admiral returned Mr Bs car to him he identified damage  to it that, he said, hadn't been 
there before. I note that G has inspected Mr Bs car and said it hadn't been caused  any 
significant extra damage. But, amongst other things, Admiral  did acknowledge it had lost the 
fuel filler cap, removed fuel and bypassed the battery isolator. And it has reimbursed 
Mr B for some of those items where  he found himself  out of pocket. But I also note Mr B is 
aware that L is a total loss, Admiral  is under no obligation to return  the salvage to him and he 
doesn't wish to keep  it. And as such,  once Admiral has settled his claim, the car will become 
its property and Mr B won't  be out of pocket because of any further damage to the car while 
it was in Admirals care.  So I don't  intend  to make  any further  findings  on that point. That 
Ref: DRN10768277said, I can understand that Mr B must have found it extremely  frustrating that it appears 
Admiral didn't take good care of L while it was with its agents.  
service, delays and compensation 
Mr B has been unhappy with Admirals service from early in the history of this claim. And, 
amongst other things  he's complained about delays, particularly in responding to his 
requests for information or answering his queries, to say nothing  of actually settling his 
claim.
Mr B claimed for the damage  to his cars in June 2017. Admiral went  to some  lengths to look 
into the claim including instructing  external  investigators.  And given the high value of the two 
cars involved I don't find that unusual or unreasonable.  Thats  because, given a successful 
claim would most likely result in a very high settlement,  I think it was reasonable for Admiral  
to want to be satisfied  that the claim was 100% genuine before offering to settle it. And that 
rigour meant the claim took longer  than would usually be the case before Admiral  was happy 
that it should settle the claim. 
I'm aware that some three and a half years later Mr Bs claim still isn't settled. Not all of 
those delays are because of things that Admiral did or didn't do. And I've apologised for our 
part in those  delays  above - but I do think Admiral could have made  Mr Bs claim journey 
smoother 
For example, Admiral asked Mr B several times to provide  proof of where  the funds had 
come from to pay for L. And I understand Mr B went to some trouble to try to find that 
evidence. But he explained  that when he bought L the funds had been sitting  in a high 
interest account, of which he had had a number. And many of which  hed since closed. He 
said he couldn't find the paperwork from some  years ago for the now closed account. But 
Admiral kept asking for it. I do understand Mr B would have found that frustrating. 
Also, I've seen that on numerous occasions Admiral  was slow to reply to Mr Bs requests for 
information or didn't reply at all. For example, he asked for copies of digital  images taken by 
the recovery drivers who collected his cars.  But Admiral didn't reply to that request promptly  
and it seems the recovery company later told Admiral it didn't have any images. Admiral 
passed that message - that no photos  were  available - on to Mr B. But Mr B had the 
recovery agents report which clearly  shows that photos of the car had been taken. And hed 
spoken with the recovery driver involved.  So he knew that, at least at some point, such 
images had existed but Admiral told him they didn't. And without those images  it was difficult  
for Mr B to prove that further damage  had been caused to his cars. I will also refer to this in 
my findings  for the decision on Mr Bs complaint about F. But I recognise that this would 
have been a significant source of frustration  for him.
Further, Mr B experienced a number of issues with recovery  agents  collecting or delivering 
his car. For instance, he told Admiral  that certain  recovery vehicles wouldn't fit down his, 
quite lengthy,  drive. But when a recovery truck arrived, hours late and in the early hours of 
the morning, the truck wouldn't fit in his drive.  So Mr B had to help the recovery agent to 
push the car down  his drive, in the rain, in order  for Admiral to recover  it. 
Similarly, when Admiral  was due to return L to him, Mr B told Admiral that certain  vehicles 
wouldnt fit down his drive. But when the truck arrived it was exactly one of the vehicles Mr B 
had said wouldn't fit in his drive. And it wasn't  safe to drop the car outside the entrance to 
Mr Bs driveway, so the recovery driver  suggested dropping the car off in a layby and said 
Ref: DRN10768278Mr B could drive it home. But, at that time, the car wasn't taxed, insured and had been 
deemed a cat B and not safe to be driven on the road. So had Mr B acted on that suggestion 
his actions would have been  unlawful.  And the recovery company had to take the car away  
again.
But when he complained about this to Admiral it, initially at least, disputed Mr B had told it 
not to use a specific type of recovery vehicle. And it was only weeks  later, after speaking  to 
the recovery company,  that Admiral acknowledged  that Mr B had given the appropriate 
instructions after all. Further, by the time Admiral  returned the car to Mr B it was no longer 
running. But Admiral blamed Mr B for this saying that it was running when it left its repairers 
and it was Mr Bs refusal to receive the car from the recovery company which had caused 
the car not to run. Again,  I can understand Mr B found this incredibly  frustrating. 
Also, because Admiral  relied on Gs report,  which I don't find reasonable, Mr B had to go to 
great efforts in an attempt to show Gs conclusion weren't fair; including  instructing 
engineers and researching possible repair costs
Further, I've noted  there were other times  when  Admiral  gave  Mr B incorrect answers  to his 
questions. And Im aware  thats been a significant  source of distress and inconvenience for 
him. For example, Mr B asked Admiral if it had any direct contact with G. Admiral  told Mr B it 
hadn't and that B had instructed  G. But Mr B later learned that wasn't the case. And, in fact, 
Admirals staff had been there in person at the time that G first inspected Mr Bs car. And 
Mr B is concerned that Admiral influenced  Gs findings as a result. I think thats unlikely, as 
Gs engineer signed  a court compliant statement to say that his findings were based  on his 
professional opinion. But I can certainly understand why Mr B believed Admiral  was being 
underhand, even if that wasnt its intention.
Ive found a number of occasions where Admirals service has fallen below a standard  Mr B 
could have expected. Hes experienced immense frustration over a long period, Had to take 
time off work and hes clearly had to make great  efforts  to try to prove his claim. For example 
by instructing engineers or researching repair options. To say nothing of his efforts in helping 
recovery agents, and fitting a new battery to the car etc. And I've thought  about  all of those 
things when deciding  on a compensation award below. 
Further, Mr B's now said he doesn't wish to keep Ls salvage.  I don't know  if that would have 
been his position had Admiral offered Mr B a reasonable settlement within a reasonable 
time-frame. But had Admiral settled the claim  fairly  and promptly Mr B could, perhaps,  have 
invested the settlement towards the costs of another car, which  could have given him the 
enjoyment he was hoping for from L in the intervening period. So, while recognising that the 
true cause of the issue was the individual(s) who maliciously attacked  Mr Bs cars, I've 
thought about Mr Bs loss of enjoyment  when considering compensation.
I'm aware Mr B thinks that Admiral  should  compensate him, on an hourly rate basis, for the 
time he's invested  in dealing with his claim,  which, in respect of both cars, he estimates to be 
hundreds of hours. But I don't think that's  reasonable.  When  considering if compensation is 
fair and if so how much to award  we look to recognise the distress and inconvenience an 
individual had suffered and make  an award to go some way to addressing  that. But we don't 
calculate such awards using tariffs for particular wrongs. Nor do we use an hourly rate for a 
consumers time. So I don't intend to make  my award on that basis.  
Having reviewed all the evidence I agree that Admirals put Mr B to unnecessary trouble and 
upset. Admirals handling of the claim has clearly had a marked effect  on him, causing him a 
Ref: DRN10768279significant amount  of stress, which could have  been  avoided if Admiral had handled matters 
differently. Admiral has recognised its caused Mr B some distress and inconvenience and 
has already paid him £1,000 compensation (for both claims) in respect  of that. In other  
words, its paid Mr B £500 in respect  of his distress and inconvenience  arising  from his claim 
for L. But I don't think that goes far enough. And, to address  that I think Admiral should pay 
Mr L an additional £750 for this particular complaint. That brings  the total compensation for 
Admirals handling  of this claim to £1,250. 
developments 
Mr B accepted my provisional findings. Admiral  didn't. It said it didn't understand why I had 
disregarded Gs report, especially as my colleague  had favoured it. Admiral said that G are a 
well-respected firm of forensic engineers with greater experience and qualification than 
some other engineering  firms, including  B. 
Admiral added that the normal process  would have  been  for the reviewing engineering firms, 
which I've referred  to as E and N, to review all of Gs evidence when giving their opinions.  
Admiral said that engineers from both of those firms overlooked some of Gs points. It said 
that, if there  was a difference  of opinion between engineers  then the usual approach  would 
be to ask the engineers to prepare a joint report so that they can come to an agreement  on 
the condition,  damage and valuation  to the vehicle .
Admiral said I should  ask E and N to revisit Gs report and address  all the points raised and 
if they didn't agree then Admiral would pay for a joint report.  Failing that Admiral said I 
should allow  it time to ask G to produce  a further  report commenting on the findings  in Es 
and Ns reports.   
Admiral said that as an interim measure it would offer Mr B a payment of £33,775  which is 
the original valuation from Gs report.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I don't intend  to amend 
my provisional decision. 
Admiral can't understand why I have disregarded Gs report  particularly as my colleague  
had favoured  it. I think its important I point out that I didn't disregard all of Gs findings. And I 
don't doubt  Admirals comment that G is a well-respected firm. But, that doesn't  mean I was 
under any obligation to simply  accept all of Gs conclusions  over the other  expert opinions on 
file.  
And, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I was more persuaded by the 
evidence from E and N that L wasn't  a cat B total loss prior to the attack,  than Gs 
conclusions that it was. Gs engineer didn't appear  to appreciate  that some of the structural  
components in a rare, high value, car like L could be safely  replaced. And that was a finding 
that both E and N came to. So, given that two qualified engineers came to the same  
conclusion, having  weighed all the evidence very carefully, I found  the findings  of N and E 
that the car wasn't  a cat B before the attack more  persuasive than Gs findings  that it was. 
So I decided to disregard Gs valuation, given  that it was based on L being a cat B before the 
attack. 
Ref: DRN107682710I came  to that conclusion  in the knowledge  that my colleague had preferred G's findings.  
However, in every case I consider, I weigh all the evidence independently and I arrive at a 
conclusion that I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. And, 
while doing  so I may choose to apply different weight to the evidence than a colleague  has. 
And that perception of the weight of certain evidence  may cause me to come to a different 
conclusion to a colleague. And thats  plainly what happened in this instance. The fact that I 
didn't agree with my colleagues initial conclusions doesn't mean  that my decision is unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Admirals suggested  that because  N and E didn't address each issue  that Gs engineer  
commented on that their reports  are in some way deficient. So I should instruct  them to 
address those points  now. But I disagree. Both Es and Ns engineers  had access  to Gs 
report before  they examined L. They both concluded that the car wasnt  a cat B before the 
attack and they both set out their findings about the condition of the car. And they both 
provided a valuation based  on their professional opinions in recognition  of the additional 
work the car requires. I don't think that they needed to do a point by point analysis of Gs 
report in order to present  their professional  conclusions. So I don't think  they need to 
address any of Gs other points now in order for me to reach  a decision.
Admirals said that the usual process would be to ask the engineers to produce  a joint 
report. But I don't think thats appropriate  here. As I said in my provisional findings it's not 
unusual for parties  to a complaint to provide conflicting evidence. And where that happens I 
weigh that evidence and decide which I prefer.  Thats what  I've done in this case  and Im 
satisfied I can reach  a fair and reasonable conclusion without Admiral commissioning a joint 
report. 
Further, Admirals said that if I don't think a joint report was appropriate I should  allow  it the 
opportunity to put Es and Ns reports to G for comment. But, if Admiral felt that was action it 
needed to take it should  have done  so sooner. Admirals had Es report for around two years  
and N's report for over ten months.  And its provided  its own comments  on those reports. If it 
wanted to provide other evidence from G then its had ample  opportunity to do so but has 
chosen not to. And I think its had more than enough  time to provide whatever evidence  it 
wished to. So, as I'm satisfied that I have  enough  evidence to reach a fair and reasonable 
conclusion I don't intend to delay my final decision while Admiral asks G for a further opinion 
on the matter. And, as Admiral hasn't provided  any further evidence thats persuaded me to 
change my provisional decision I don't intend to do so.  
Ref: DRN107682711my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint. I 
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to:
Settle Mr Bs claim for Ls total loss using a pre-incident valuation of £80,778.  Admiral  
should add simple interest to its settlement at a rate of 8% a year from the date of 
claim to the date it makes  payment1.
Reimburse Mr B for the costs of his two engineers reports.  Admiral  should add 
simple interest to those  refunds  at a rate of 8% a year from the date Mr B paid for the 
reports to the date it reimburses him.
Pay Mr B a further compensation payment of £750.
Admiral should pay the compensation within 28 days  of us telling it that Mr B has accepted 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest  on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2021.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1076827