K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that the terms of a hire purchase  agreement financed by Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  were  misrepresented. She seeks compensation.
background 
Miss C tells us that she acquired the vehicle  in December 2015 from a dealer Ill refer to as 
L. She says shed never previously entered into any type of vehicle finance before. Miss C 
states that she was told by Ls sales person that if she entered the agreement for the new 
vehicle it would be guaranteed to have a value  of £12,300 at the end of the term. And that 
this could be used  as a deposit  on a new vehicle for a further  finance  agreement with the 
same monthly payments over a three year period. This was subject to her vehicle being 
returned in good condition  and within the contracted mileage allowance. She says that both 
of these conditions  were fulfilled. But when she came to exchange  the vehicle she was told it 
had negative equity.  And that she wouldnt be able to receive £12,300  as a deposit towards 
a new vehicle. As a result  she says she had to extend the agreement.
MBFS told us it didnt  agree thered been any misrepresentation of the agreement.  And that 
Miss C had been provided with documents including adequate  explanations and a copy 
agreement. It said shed signed  to say she understood. MBFS told us that the agreement 
was extended  at Miss Cs request.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said the documents 
with which  Miss C had been provided clearly stated the terms of the agreement. She didnt 
think Miss C had been misinformed.
Miss C didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I just want to deal with a couple of issues which  the respective parties have 
raised in respect  of this complaint.
Miss Cs hire purchase agreement is a regulated  consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. I dont  apply  the law - directly  - but I do take it 
into account. Relevant law here includes the Consumer  Credit Act of 1974.
MBFS didnt think it should  be responsible  for the complaint as L is a regulated  business.  L 
is a branch which is owned  under  a different  part of the Mercedes Group. But under section 
56 CCA, as the supplier  of finance,  MBFS is potentially liable for any misrepresentation of 
the agreement  by L. 
Miss C has said shes  not complaining about the agreement itself but the fact that she 
believes it arose as a result of mis-selling.  And she says she wouldnt have entered into the 
agreement if it hadnt been for assurances  about  the cars  guaranteed future value.  That is to 
say it would be worth £12,300 at the end of the term. I hope Ive understood what Miss C 
means and I think it amounts to an allegation of misrepresentation of the agreement. And 
that any difference is one in terminology.
Ref: DRN10462422A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to enter an 
agreement and as a result of the misrepresentation to suffer  a loss. That seems to be an 
accurate description  of Miss Cs complaint.
I understand that Miss C would be disappointed  that her expectations about the value of the 
vehicle werent fulfilled. And I accept she feels strongly about the matter.
For obvious reasons  I wasnt present during negotiations about the vehicle and the finance 
agreement. And so Ive to rely on a combination of the documentary  information and what 
statements and testimony the parties provide.
Where information is incomplete, or contradictory  - as some  of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its fair to say that its not unusual  for parties  to a verbal discussion to come away  with 
different understandings of any agreement which they may have reached. One of the 
reasons why regulated finance  agreements  are put in written  form is to have a record of 
what was agreed in the case  of future  disputes.
Its also correct that theres  a wide range  of different financial products on the market and 
that theres a lot of jargon  used in connection  with them. Miss C accepts shed not 
previously had any experience of hire purchase so it would be reasonable for her to be 
unfamiliar with the different sorts  of agreement and the terminology that was used. 
Ive looked at the Adequate Explanations  document, which  Miss C signed. It includes the 
following:
Your agreement includes an Optional Purchase Payment of £12,300.00,
which is equal to the Guaranteed Future  Value of the vehicle.
This means  at the end of your agreement you have the following options:
To pay this amount  and keep your vehicle, or
To return your vehicle to us, or
To Part Exchange  the vehicle  in return for a new vehicle.
I think this sets out the three options  in plain terms. But Id highlight that the option to part-
exchange does  not go on to say words to the effect  that the part- exchange value is 
guaranteed to be at least £12,300. Which is what I think Miss C has read or inferred it to 
mean.
The value of any vehicle  in three  years  time cant be known. Thats  putting  aside  any 
elements of damage or excess  mileage. Vehicle valuations fluctuate all the time with certain  
models moving in or out of favour. 
The value to the consumer of the Guaranteed Future Value (GFV) is that it places a limit on 
potential loss. If the value of the vehicle has fallen below that of the GFV the consumer is 
under no obligation to exercise the option  to purchase.  And so subject to meeting mileage 
Ref: DRN10462423allowances and vehicle  return  standards the consumer can simply return  the vehicle  without 
further payment.  In effect the loss in value is passed  on to the finance company.
Alternatively, if the value of the vehicle is above GFV the customer can opt to purchase the 
vehicle for the GFV - which would mean theyd acquire the vehicle at below the market  
value. And of course, once they owned  it the consumer would be free to negotiate a part- 
exchange deal if they wished to obtain a new vehicle.
In trying to work out what mightve led Miss C to her belief that the part-exchange value was 
guaranteed Ive taken account of whats shes  said to our investigator.
I note that in her response to our investigators  view Miss C stated:
My whole complaint is that I would  not have taken  out any form of lease that would mean i 
would pay more money than the total value of the car at point of sale.  The selling of the 
financial contract was on the basis that over a 6 year/9 year period I would have had three 
new cars for almost the same price  as one new one!
The cash  price of the vehicle at the time of supply was £24,484.01.  This was to be financed  
by 36 x £250 monthly  payments (£9,000); together with deposit of £5,780.42. So, by the end 
of the agreement shed been  required to pay only £14,780.42.  
The optional final payment of £12,300  arose  if, and only if, she chose to purchase the 
vehicle outright. Together with the previous payments this would total 27,080.42. The 
difference being the interest payable £2,596.41.
If Miss C wasnt prepared  to pay more than the total value of the cash price of the vehicle at 
the point of supply, she wouldve been  effectively asking for a three year interest free loan. 
And theres  no suggestion she expected  this. The difference between  the cash  price and 
what shed paid by the time the final payment was due was £9,703.59. And as Miss C has 
never disputed that she knew shed have  to pay £12,300 to purchase the vehicle it seems 
there could  be no misunderstanding as to this part of the agreement.
Ive also seen an email  from Ls sales person dated 16 November 2015.  After a reference  to 
the colour of the vehicle it goes on:
With regard to the guaranteed value, it is the same  as it was on Saturday  at £12,300 00.
Let me make it clear I do not doubt that Miss C thought she was being assured the part-
exchange value  of the vehicle would be at least £12,300.
But as the email came from the sales person it seems probable that what he understood by 
the term guaranteed value wasnt as wide a meaning as that which Miss C assumed.  So, I 
think this is what mightve  sowed the seeds of the subsequent dispute.
Miss Cs response to our investigator suggests that the sales person told her that she could 
roll over this arrangement to future  agreements. Its hard to see a business offering to supply  
a new vehicle in three  years time on the same terms as it would at the present time.  So, to 
reasonably think  that this would extend  still further to a six or nine year period is, in my 
opinion, challenging.
Ref: DRN10462424Im not satisfied that theres been a misrepresentation  of the agreement.  As opposed to 
there having been a misunderstanding on Miss Cs part as to the meaning  of GFV. I accept 
that Im unlikely to persuade Miss C that this is whats probably happened.  
As the agreement and the adequate explanations  have been signed  by Miss C to indicate  
her acceptance and understanding of them, I think MBFS was entitled  to rely on these  
documents. Accordingly, I shant be asking it to do anything else and Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1046242