K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  avoided  his motor  insurance 
policies and refused his claim, as he hadnt  told it about a criminal conviction.
Background
Mr D bought his car insurance with Advantage through a price  comparison site. As part of 
the application process he was asked about  motoring and non-motoring  convictions. He 
didnt declare any. 
A year later he renewed the policy. He then had an accident, and during the claim process 
he disclosed  that he had a criminal conviction  and a fixed penalty  endorsement  for speeding. 
Advantage decided that because he hadnt  told it about the criminal conviction when he took 
out the policy, he had made a qualifying misrepresentation at that point, and again when he 
had renewed the policy.  It said that it wouldnt have provided Mr D cover  had it known  about  
his conviction,  so avoided the policy from the start.  It  said it would look to recover its losses  
as a result  of the accident from him.
Mr D complained to Advantage. He said that he was dyslexic,  so didnt understand the 
importance of the question  and had been in a rush during the application process.  So he 
thought Advantage werent  treating him fairly.
Advantage didnt  agree.  It said it was Mr Ds responsibility to check the answers given. And it 
said it had sent his policy documents out with clear instructions to make  sure all the answers 
he had given were  correct. It said he had the opportunity to have  his answers on the policy  
document checked if necessary. And when it came  to renewal, the documents  were  again 
sent out with instructions to make  sure all his personal information was accurate. 
Mr D complained to us. He said Advantage wasnt treating  him fairly, as his dyslexia  meant 
he didnt understand the questions.  He also said he hadnt received the renewal pack so 
didnt know he had to contact Advantage.
The investigator thought that Mr D should have taken more care when taking out the policy  
and in making sure the information  Advantage asked him to check  when he renewed his 
policy was accurate. The investigator had seen that Advantage wouldnt have agreed to 
provide Mr D with the policy if it had known about  his conviction, so he thought it was entitled 
to avoid his policies due to careless  misrepresentations.  He also thought it likely that the 
renewal pack had been sent as Advantage said it had.
Mr D did not agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
(CIDRA) 2012. This sets out the obligation on consumers taking out consumer insurance 
contracts (policies) both originally and when they renew them. And it also sets out the 
remedies for insurers if consumers fail to fulfil this obligation. 
Ref: DRN13265252The Act says that a consumer must  take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. 
And if they fail to do this the insurer will be entitled to avoid their policy if they can show  they 
wouldnt have provided the policy without the misrepresentation. There are other remedies  
available depending on whether the misrepresentation was careless or reckless  or 
deliberate. In deciding whether the consumer failed to take reasonable care the Act requires 
 amongst other things  consideration of how clear  and specific  the questions the consumer 
was asked were. 
CIDRA is in line with our long-established  approach. So, I have considered whether what  
Advantage did was in line with the Act to decide  what the fair and reasonable outcome to 
Mr Ds complaint is.
In this case Advantage have said it wouldnt have provided the policy  to Mr D at all without  
the misrepresentation it has argued  Mr D made,  when he took out the policy and when it was 
renewed. 
So, I need to consider  whether Advantage was entitled to avoid both the polices Mr D had 
with them.  And it can only refuse  his claim if it is entitled to avoid the one he took out when 
he renewed, as the claim was under  this policy. 
Mr D doesnt appear  to be disputing that he had a criminal conviction, nor that he didnt 
declare it when he took out the policy and again  when he renewed it. He acknowledges now 
he should have,  but he says due to his dyslexia, he didnt understand at these  times.
Mr D has said that he was in a rush to take out the initial  insurance  cover,  so didnt get 
anyone to check his answers online.  But Ive seen the questions  he was asked online,  and I 
think they were clear.  And the policy documents he was sent listed  his answers, and I think, 
made it clear  they were important and should be checked. This included  the fact he had no 
criminal convictions. 
CIDRA says that, when  considering whether reasonable care has been taken, Insurers 
should take into account any particular  characteristics or circumstances of the actual 
consumer, if they are, or ought to have been aware of them. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest Advantage was aware  of Mr Ds dyslexia,  before he raised  it in response to the 
avoidance of his policy. So, I dont think Advantage needed to make reasonable adjustments  
for Mr D as a result of this. 
Mr D says he didnt receive the renewal  pack,  so didnt know he should have declared his 
conviction when  he renewed his policy. Advantage has shown us the renewal pack it sent,  
and the address is correct. Without anything  to say there was a problem with the post, I think  
it is more likely than not that the pack was posted correctly and received at Mr Ds address. 
And Im satisfied the renewal statement showed  Advantage had recorded that Mr D didnt 
have any criminal convictions. And Advantage made it clear  Mr D needed to let it know if any 
of the information it held about him was incorrect. So, I am satisfied that by not letting 
Advantage know he did have a criminal conviction Mr D failed to take reasons care not to 
make a misrepresentation both at inception, and when he renewed his policy. 
Advantage have  shown  us underwriting criteria that shows the application  for insurance 
would be declined if the applicant has a criminal conviction. And they have shown this is the 
case with Mr D both when  he took out the policy and when he renewed it. So, Im satisfied 
that if Mr D had declared his conviction, at either the inception or renewal  of the policy,  
Ref: DRN13265253Advantage would  not have agreed  to provide him with the policy.  And this also means  Im 
satisfied that on both occasions  Mr D made a qualifying misrepresentation.
And because I dont think Advantage was aware  of Mr Ds dyslexia,  Im satisfied it has acted 
reasonably and was entitled to avoid both Mr Ds policies and refuse  his claim. This means I 
think it will also be entitled to recover what it paid on the third party claim against Mr D, less 
any premiums  it should  have returned  to Mr D as a result of avoiding both his policies. 
Advantage also decided to write off Mr Ds car as a result of the damage it sustained in the 
accident. They settled  the claim by paying Mr D its salvage value. Advantage have 
acknowledged that they should have allowed Mr D to retain the car if he wished, and have 
paid him £500,  in addition  to the salvage  value, in compensation for this error. I think  this 
was a fair and reasonable resolution in the circumstances so will not be requiring  them  to do 
anything further  in this regard. 
So, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for me not to uphold  it. 
My final decision
As a result of all of the above,  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1326525