K822xcomplaint
T, a trust making charitable  awards, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its bank 
account causing a loss of income and inconvenience.
background 
HSBC contacted T to say that it was carrying out a safeguard exercise to help protect 
against fraud and financial crime. The treasurer of T, who represents it in this complaint, had 
a telephone interview with HSBC. He was asked to provide more information  which  he says 
that he did and was told that the review was completed. But the account  of T was closed as 
HSBC says it did not have all the information it needed. T says that as a result  its donors 
could not pay money  to the account and it did not have a way of contacting them to give new 
bank account  details.
Our investigator recommended that T be paid £200. He accepted  that it had attempted to 
comply with the requirements  of the exercise  and that the treasurer believed that all the 
information had been provided.  HSBC had tried to contact T but the number it had on file 
was not the current  one. He did not think that HSBC could be responsible for the loss of 
donations as it could assume T had a record of who made the payments. HSBC agreed to 
pay this compensation  accepting  what the treasurer had said about what hed been  told.
T did not agree.  The treasurer said that all the trustees were  very stressed  by what  had 
happened and £200 does  not reflect this. Ts donors have been making payments for years 
and T no longer  has a donor contact list. The treasurer wrote  to HSBC on 23 December 
2018 to say that it would  not receive the donations,  most of which came in the month of 
January, after the account was closed. So HSBC was on notice of this and T never received 
a satisfactory response.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at the timeline of what happened here. T had the telephone interview on 3 
July 2018. T confirmed in an email to HSBC of 23 July 2018 that it knew  it still had to provide 
more information  following  that call and saying that one of the trustees was away. HSBC has 
shown that it sent letters  about this information on 25 July 2018 and 28 August 2018 stating 
that unless it was received steps would  be taken to close the account from 27 September  
2018. The treasurer says he provided  information on 10 September  2018.  HSBC has a 
record of T speaking with the member of staff involved on 12 September 2018. The treasurer  
says that he thought that the only thing outstanding  was the trust deed and he emailed that 
on 13 September 2018.
HSBC says it inhibited  the account on 27 September 2018. And that a different member of 
staff tried to contact T on 11 and 24 October 2018 without success. The account  was closed 
on 31 October 2018 and the balance on the account  paid to T.
Im not clear from the evidence provided  by HBSC whether it received the further email or 
not or whether the additional information had raised  more questions.  In any event it 
attempted to contact  T on the number it held. Its position is that T had not updated that 
information. Im finding that difficult to accept as reasonable given that T had provided  its 
Ref: DRN13393382contact details on its emails and as part of the safeguard exercise would have most likely 
been confirming  all those  details anyway. My understanding  is that HSBC had successfully 
called T on 3 July 2018 but unfortunately no recordings  of this call or any other call are 
available.
I think it most likely  that T genuinely thought  the review was completed.  Although  there had 
been some  delay in it providing the follow up information I consider it thought that it had met 
the requirements. And had it not then it would have provided anything  further.
So I agree that T has been caused inconvenience.  But Im afraid I cant  consider any 
personal distress caused to the trustees  in a complaint  from T. The main issue  for the 
trustees though  is the impact of not being able to receive donations of some £850 per year 
to this account.
I accept the treasurers  evidence which  is that for a number of reasons it lost contact with its 
donors. And he adds  that I suspect given the small amount involved in each donation  
people didnt  notice  it and just went on paying by default. Im afraid I think it was reasonable 
to expect that a trust making charitable  donations would have maintained better  records  of 
its active donors. And I dont see that T not being able to do so meant HSBC could 
reasonably assume  the responsibility  for any loss of donations  that could no longer be 
received into the bank  account. That account  was closed  in November 2018 and as T says 
that the majority of donations came  in the month  of January  I think it ordinarily ought to have 
had a reasonable time to take mitigating action. There was also nothing HSBC  could do to 
help T identify payments  that had failed  to a closed account. So I wont  be making  an award 
for any financial loss.
But I dont think that the full inconvenience involved for T has been reflected in the 
recommended compensation here and I use my judgement to increase  the award to £300.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require HSBC  UK Bank  Plc to pay T 
£300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.  
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1339338