K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained he was mis-sold a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Mr S took out the PPI in January 1999 when he applied for a credit  card.  BoS said the sale 
took place during a meeting and that Mr S was advised to take the cover. Mr S said he 
wasnt given a choice  about taking the PPI, and that he didnt need it as he had good 
employee benefits. 
The policy cost 76p per £100.00 owed. If Mr S had successfully claimed on the policy  for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when he stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
so didnt uphold  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Mr Ss credit  card agreement. The document shows a cross in a box to 
say that Mr S wanted PPI. The cross was pre-printed  but so was all the other  information  
on the form, including Mr Ss income and employment details. So I think its most likely  that 
the form was printed  out after a discussion with the adviser  and that the PPI formed  part of 
that discussion. On balance,  I think its more  likely  than not that Mr S was given a choice  
about whether  to take the PPI and that he agreed to it. I think  he probably just doesnt 
remember doing so after all this time.  
Im satisfied that BoS advised Mr S to take out the policy.  So BoS had to make sure that the 
PPI was suitable for Mr S. I think it was. 
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy.  But I cant see that Mr S wouldve been  affected by any of 
these. 
Mr S said he wouldve been entitled  to sick pay from his employer of six months full pay and 
six months half pay. He also said that he had some savings  equivalent to less than three 
months salary. Ive thought carefully  about everything Mr S has said, but overall I think he 
couldve found it difficult to meet the monthly payments on the card once his sick pay 
reduced or if he lost his job. And Ive kept in mind  that the policy couldve paid out for up to 
12 months per claim. So on balance  I dont think there was anything wrong with BoS 
recommending the PPI. 
Ref: DRN12273512Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Mr S. As Ive said, I cant  know 
how the adviser explained the policy, or when Mr S mightve been given a policy summary or 
full policy  document.  So its possible the information about the cost and benefits may not 
have been as clear  as it shouldve been. 
However, given Mr Ss circumstances, I dont  think more detailed information  about the cost 
and benefits wouldve changed his decision to take the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if hed been unable to work. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
S paid for it. But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr S about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20March 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1227351