K822xcomplaint
Mr M is unhappy  HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly  rejected  his credit card application, and with 
the general service  he received when making  that application.
background 
In January 2019, Mr M applied online for a credit card with HSBC.  He wanted to take 
advantage of a 0% interest offer and transfer a balance from another credit  card he had.
As part of the application, Mr M was asked to provide information about his employment 
status and annual income,  amongst  other things. He selected the option to say he was 
receiving pension / disability allowance and that his income  was £10,000  per year.  
HSBC referred the application to its underwriting team for review and it was internally 
categorised as suspended pending  Mr M providing  three months bank statements. Its 
noted on HSBCs systems that if the documents look OK  may look to agree.
Mr M provided bank statements and he contacted HSBC on 6 February 2019 to get an 
update on the status  of his application. During this call, Mr M was asked whether he was in 
receipt of any income aside from his welfare  benefits. When Mr M confirmed that his income 
was solely  made up of welfare benefits,  his application was declined.
Unhappy, he complained to HSBC and said he wanted his application approved.
HSBC investigated  his complaint and said it had followed its usual process when  dealing  
with Mr Ms application. It says the source  of Mr Ms income was unclear from his initial  
application, so he was asked to provide evidence of it.
Mr M says HSBC  has treated him unfairly.  He also feels discriminated against as the 
ultimate reason  for declining his application  was partly due to his income being made up of 
disability related benefits. Hes also unhappy  that he:
-was asked to prove his income  when HSBC  knew his application  wouldnt be 
successful, so it wasted his time; and
-was given different  reasons for his application being declined.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  HSBC had treated Mr M 
unfairly when applying for the credit card. She said HSBC had checked  to see if the 
requested credit card would be affordable  based  on his circumstances. The welfare benefits 
Mr M was receiving  at the time - which formed the basis of his income - didnt meet HSBCs 
lending criteria. And she didnt think it had unfairly declined the application by applying  its 
criteria.
Our investigator also acknowledged that Mr M was unhappy that HSBC  didnt tell him at the 
outset that his application wouldnt succeed based  on his source of income. However, she 
didnt think HSBC wouldve been aware of this until it had been able to verify  details relating 
to his income.
Mr M didnt  agree. He reiterated that he felt his time had been wasted, and that he didnt 
think hed been  treated  fairly. So, his complaint has now come to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN13636092I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 11 November 2020. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
the application decision:
Looking at the amount Mr M received in welfare benefits each month at the time he applied 
for the credit card, Im satisfied he met HSBCs  minimum  income threshold to qualify for the 
card.
Weve asked HSBC  about its usual process  for reviewing  credit card applications, especially 
in instances where  the applicants sole, or main, income is made up of welfare benefits. Its 
provided us with a list of income sources which it does,  and doesnt,  accept.
At the time of making the application  Mr M was in receipt of enhanced employment support 
allowance (EESA), child tax credit and child benefit.  Someone is entitled to EESA  if they 
have a disability,  as assessed against certain criteria or health condition  that affects  how 
much they can work. It provides an income to assist with everyday living costs if someone is 
unable to work or support  to get back into work if theyre able to.
According to HSBCs  lending criteria  the welfare benefits Mr M was in receipt of arent 
treated as acceptable  sources of income.
But importantly I think in this case,  HSBC has also told us that it: did (and continues  to) 
consider the impact of the inclusion  and exclusion of specific benefits from its eligible income 
list on those customers and prospective customers who have a protected  characteristic.
 Its also told us that certain internal manuals and guidelines make clear reference  to the 
fact that discrimination  is unlawful and a certain manual specifically states that: this 
extends to the Banks lending practices, where decisions made in respect of lending  
propositions submitted by or involving  people  with disabilities should be made on no less 
favourable a basis than any other lending decision.
HSBC also says: in addition to its initial  consideration when devising the eligible income 
list, HSBCs underwriting team have the opportunity to consider an individual  credit card 
application in greater detail if an individual fails the initial income  verification checks. HSBCs 
intention is that, if at that stage it is identified that an individual may be at risk of 
discrimination as a result  of a protected characteristic, the issue would be escalated to the 
relevant internal team for further  consideration.
Theres no evidence to show  that extra step happened here,  and Im currently satisfied  it 
wouldve been fair and reasonable for HSBC to have taken that step in this particular case. 
Thats because under the Equality Act 2010,  disability is a protected  characteristic and Mr M 
was in receipt of a disability related benefit.  Im also currently  satisfied that by not accepting 
this type of benefit as an eligible source  of income  put Mr M at risk of being treated  
unfavourably because of a disability in accordance with HSBCs  internal guidance.
Mr M listed his occupation as receiving pension or disability benefit on his credit card 
application. I dont  think HBSC acted unreasonably  in asking him to provide documentary  
evidence of his income.  But, as soon  as Mr M explained his income  was solely  made up of 
welfare benefits, including one which was disability related, Im minded to find that HSBC 
shouldve escalated Mr Ms application to the relevant internal team for further consideration 
Ref: DRN13636093(to enable  his individual circumstances to be taken into account). In this particular case, I 
dont think it acted fairly and reasonably by not doing so.
The Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) does permit HSBC  to make  certain  assumptions 
about affordability, and sustainability of repayment  when  considering  the amount of lending  
being applied  for and the period over which it is to be repaid. However, to ensure  that its 
treating customers fairly, Im satisfied that any assumptions made must be fair and 
reasonable.
I accept that its fair and reasonable  for HSBC  to consider whether borrowing is sustainable 
over a reasonable period,  considering any foreseeable adjustments to Mr Ms income over 
that period. HSBC  says for credit cards, it considers whether the total credit  being applied for 
can be paid back over a certain number  of years which it has disclosed  to our Service.  
Thats a business  decision for it to make  and its not the role of our Service  to interfere with 
that. But, without  asking Mr M any questions about  his benefits, I dont think it has fairly 
demonstrated that the credit Mr M applied for was unsustainable or that Mr M wouldnt be 
able to pay back any money borrowed over that period.
For example, it didnt ask him any questions around  his disposable income, whether he was 
obliged to spend his benefits  on certain things (meaning it couldnt be used to repay the 
credit card debt), nor did it assess how long he was likely to receive  benefits for. Although  
benefits arent a guaranteed source  of income  - given the particular benefits Mr M was in 
receipt of, the probable long-term nature of his medical conditions, and the fact that his son 
was 11 at the time - the income he received from his benefits  was stable and not likely to 
cease or significantly  reduce in the medium to long term (unless there was a significant  
change in government  policy).
the impact this had on Mr Ms application:
Mr Ms bank statements for the period immediately preceding the date of his application 
were in relatively good shape and he wasnt reliant  on an overdraft.  However, Im conscious 
that the welfare benefits Mr M received are intended to assist  with the additional costs of his 
health conditions   or to financially support his son. Although  I accept his benefits werent 
paid on the condition that they must be spent in a specific or identifiable way, its likely that 
Mr M did have  additional  outgoings on account of  or relating to  his personal  
circumstances. He has told us that he used money  he received from welfare benefits to buy 
food and tried to contribute £50 per week towards  household bills.
An expenditure assessment wouldve helped ascertain Mr Ms disposable  income and 
whether the credit limit was affordable for him. And because one wasnt  carried  out in early  
2019, I dont have enough to conclude, on the balance of probabilities,  that his application 
wouldve been successful.
Its also unlikely HSBC  would be able to reassess the application he made now,  and Mr Ms 
circumstances have  changed. But Im intending  to find that should  Mr M want  to resubmit  an 
application for a credit  card with HSBC, it should ensure it is assessed fairly  and reasonably, 
considering his personal circumstances. Thats not to say that Mr Ms application will 
automatically be successful. It simply means  HSBC  should make sure his application is 
considered fairly, in line with its internal guidance, and not automatically declined because  of 
his source of income.
Ref: DRN13636094Im also intending  to find that having his credit  card application turned down without carrying  
out such an assessment  caused Mr M some unnecessary  disappointment,  frustration and 
upset as evidenced by the call recordings Ive listened to from 6 February  2019.
the service Mr M received during the application process:
We havent been provided with a copy of the correspondence HSBC  sent asking  Mr M to 
provide proof of his income. Mr M says HSBC wasnt clear on what he needed to send so he 
only sent it bank  statements  for the account  which showed the amounts he received  for child 
tax credits and child benefit.  Ultimately,  this didnt influence HSBCs  decision; even if hed 
been given the correct  information about the evidence required to prove his income  and 
hed also provided  bank statements showing the amounts  he received in EESA  its likely 
HSBC wouldve still taken  the same decision to decline his application, based on his source 
of income. He was told this during  the call with HSBC on 6 February 2019. 
However, there were  other service failings  which I think did impact  Mr M.
Both parties  accept that an attempt was made to contact Mr M by phone.  And Mr M was told 
this was to obtain more  information about  his income source. Although Mr M says his phone 
did ring once and he received  a text message asking for a call back,  he says that when he 
did call back, the person  he spoke to just said the call was to confirm  his details and he only 
needed to wait for a decision to be made.
HSBC has no record of Mr Ms call. However, Im satisfied  Mr M has been  consistent, 
credible and persuasive in his recollection of what happened, and he mentions it in his calls 
with HSBC on 6 February  2019.
So, Im currently persuaded that Mr M did make a call to HSBC before 6 February  2019  - 
and the person he spoke to didnt have full knowledge of his application, or the reason a call 
had been made to him. By giving Mr M the wrong  information and not notifying  the correct  
department that Mr M had returned the call, his application couldnt  be progressed, 
unreasonably delaying matters by a further  few days.  
This also led Mr M to call HSBC a second time to chase  his application. It was on that call, 
that his income  was discussed, and Mr M was asked specifically about the source of his 
income and he was informed that his application  couldnt be accepted because of the 
benefits he received.
Having listened  to the calls Mr M had with HSBC on 6 February 2019, its clear  Mr M was 
unhappy and frustrated with the decision that had been made.  And I dont think the calls 
were handled  particularly well; Mr M was given confusing information  and I accept this 
caused further frustration.
Mr M was also provided with a copy of a letter which HSBC said it had previously sent him 
on 7 February 2019. This says his application  was declined due to his credit score, which  
wasnt the case. I accept  this caused  Mr M further  frustration  and confusion.
Taking all this together  including having  his application being turned down without carrying  
out an expenditure assessment - Im minded to direct HSBC to pay £350 compensation to 
reflect the frustration,  confusion, distress  and inconvenience Mr M experienced as a result  of 
the overall service  he received from HSBC during his application.
Ref: DRN13636095should HSBC  publish its income requirements  on its website?
Mr M says HSBC  should make a clear statement on its website and / or application about 
the benefits it will, and wont, accept. Given his experience, I understand why he thinks  
HSBC should  do this. But I dont think its acted unfairly or unreasonably by not doing  so.
Theres no regulatory duty for it to do so and according to its unsecured lending criteria, 
HSBC might accept a combination of benefits, and/ or other income, when considering  an 
application. HSBC  has also said that where its identified  that an individual  may be at risk of 
discrimination as a result  of a protected characteristic, an application might  be escalated  to 
the relevant internal team for further  consideration. So, publishing its acceptable  source of 
income might end up causing  further  confusion to customers  and prospective customers, 
looking to apply for unsecured credit.
my provisional decision
Im intending  to partly uphold Mr Ms complaint and, for the reasons set out above, direct  
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay him £350 in compensation for distress  and inconvenience. 
Should Mr M want to submit a new credit card application, Im also intending  to direct HSBC 
UK Bank Plc to consider this in line with its own guidance rather than decline it outright 
based only on his source of income.  
When responding to this provisional decision, Mr M should confirm  whether he does intend  
to submit a new credit  card application to HSBC.
responses to my provisional  decision
HSBC responded  and said it accepted my provisional findings.
Mr M said that while he accepted my findings,  he didnt think  the amount of compensation 
was enough to reflect the distress hed suffered. He said that my findings make no mention 
of the presents HSBC offered him, such as wine and chocolates. He feels this was an 
attempt by HSBC  to stop him taking the matter further, even though  it knew it had done 
something wrong.
Mr M mentions, with the help of friends  and family he has managed  to pay off his credit card. 
But, having  to ask for help to do this, has severely impacted his emotional wellbeing. He said 
he went for days without eating and he and his son, went without for a long period of time, so 
the debt could be cleared. Mr M also explained the impact this had on his son. 
Mr M feels this all could  have  been  avoided if HSBC had assessed his application correctly 
and given him a credit  card.  He now no longer needs a credit  card so wont be making a new 
application to HSBC.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate all Mr M has said about  his financial situation and the way this matter impacted 
him and his family. I realise  he has been  through a very difficult  time. 
Ref: DRN13636096However, I must keep  in mind that although Ive found HSBC didnt assess Mr Ms 
application the way it should have done,  for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I 
dont have enough to conclude on the balance of probabilities his application would have 
been accepted. So, even  if HSBC  had done what it should have, Im not persuaded that 
Mr Ms financial situation would have been any different.  I wont therefore be awarding a 
higher amount of compensation to Mr M for the distress  and inconvenience  he experienced 
as a result  of not obtaining a credit  card account with HSBC. 
Mr M has made reference to the fact when he complained  he was offered items  such  as a 
bottle of wine and chocolates. He feels this was offered to him in an attempt to stop him 
taking the matter further. For the avoidance of doubt, I confirm I was aware  of this before I 
made my provisional findings and I took this into consideration.
Where a business has done something wrong,  we would usually expect to see it take some  
steps to put the matter right. This wont always be in the form of monetary compensation. 
HSBC did recognise  to a certain extent the service provided to Mr M could  have been  better  
and offered him a gesture of goodwill. I dont think there is anything unusual  in this, nor am I 
persuaded that it was intended in the way Mr M has suggested, to buy his silence on the 
matter. 
Having considered everything, for the same  reasons  as set out in my provisional findings, I 
think Mr Ms complaint against  HSBC  should be upheld. Mr M has confirmed he does not 
intend to make a further credit card application.  So, to put matters  right,  I think  HSBC should 
pay Mr M £350 compensation to reflect the distress  and inconvenience hes been caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against HSBC  UK Bank Plc. I direct it to 
pay Mr M £350 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1363609