K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs C bought the policy in 1994 at the same  time as taking out a credit card in store. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint because:
 The credit  agreement had yes and no boxes for PPI. And the yes box was ticked. 
Given Mrs C signed the credit agreement, I think FICL did enough to make  her aware 
that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. I appreciate 
that Mrs C says PPI wasnt discussed and she just signed the agreement which was 
filled in by the shop assistant. But this is not enough for me to conclude that FICL didnt 
give her a choice about  buying  the policy. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs C doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Cs comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1817209