K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 
1991. Mr D says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI when he took out his 
MasterCard (card number ending 4342) and his Visa card (card  number ending 3041 which 
then transferred to a MasterCard card number ending 9521).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Lloyds doesnt  have all of the paperwork from the sale, which is hardly  surprising considering 
that this took place over 27 years  ago. It has provided a sample of an application form which  
it says was in use around the time.  Whilst I dont know for certain  whether this is the same  
document that Mr D would  have  seen, I think its likely to be the same.  On this sample 
application form there is a section for PPI and there is the option to tick the box if the cover is 
required. Mr D would have had to tick the box in order for the PPI to be added  to his 
accounts.
So, on balance,  based  on everything Ive seen and been told, and also taking into 
consideration what we know  about  how Lloyds sold these policies at the time, I think its likely 
that Lloyds  made Mr D aware  the policies were optional  and he agreed to take the PPI out, 
knowing he could refuse if he didnt want it.
Lloyds no longer has a record of how the policies  were  sold but has considered the 
complaint on the basis it recommended  the PPI to Mr D. As this puts a greater  responsibility  
on Lloyds, rather than Mr D, I think this is the fair thing to do. This means it had to check  that 
the PPI was right for him  and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example he was eligible for the policy and doesnt seem to be affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such  as having unusual working 
arrangements or suffering  from a medical condition of which  he was already aware.
Mr D has told us he would have received at least six months sick pay from his employer if 
he was too ill to work. But these policies would have paid out for up to 12 months  which 
would have been in addition to, and potentially for longer than, his sick pay. And they would 
have provided  cover  for the same  length of time if Mr D had lost his job. While Ive noted 
Mr D has said he could have relied  on family  support  and income from others in the 
household, support from others cant be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change, 
meaning they are unable  to provide such financial assistance. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like the PPI would have been  useful for him if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN16572402Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Lloyds has agreed to pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr D on his account with 
the card number ending 9521  - because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium on this account  - and I think that offer is 
fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium on the account for card ending 9521. Lloyds should also pay back  
to Mr D any extra interest he paid because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr D the difference between 
what Mr D owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr D 8%* simple interest (15%  
before April 1993) if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ive also thought about what  Mr D has said about there having been other court cases in 
relation to non-disclosure of commission  where  consumers have received everything  back.  
So he thinks  Lloyds should refund  all of the money  paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint is the law. But I also need  to take into account 
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice;  and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Lloyds has made Mr D an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received on his account for card number ending  9521 that is in-line with the 
methods set out by the FCA. But Mr D wants Lloyds to do something  different.
I have looked at the particular circumstances  of Mr D and his complaint to see if theres 
anything about  him that would mean  the business should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs  rules  dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Mr D. But 
there isnt anything about Mr Ds complaint or circumstances  that suggests the redress 
being offered  by Lloyds isnt fair or reasonable. In this case I think  Lloydss offer is a fair 
way to resolve this case.
But in relation to the original MasterCard  account - card number ending 4342  - taken out at 
the same  time, Lloyds  doesnt need  to refund any of the commission Mr D paid for the PPI 
he had with this credit card. The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission 
and profit share from the PPI policy  more  than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt  tell 
the consumer,  then that could create an unfair  relationship  between  the parties.  So to put 
Ref: DRN16572403that right,  the FCA said that businesses  should pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court  judgment  relate to the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which 
were added to the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006   came into force on 6 April 2007. The 
changes made in 2006 explained that the unfair  relationship provisions  would only apply 
to credit  agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before 
then, which  were still running on 6 April 2008.
Lloyds has given me information that shows this credit card account ended  in 2007.  So 
based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by 
the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure  of commission apply here.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have  to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Lloyds  Bank PLC does  have  to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium on his account with card number ending 9521. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1657240