K821x#15Complaint
Mr P complains about three logbook loans Greenlight Credit Ltd lent to him between  March 
2017 and March 2020.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I will not repeat  them  all again
here. The adjudicator  that looked at the complaint concluded that Greenlight didnt 
responsibly lend any of the loans to Mr P. Greenlight accepted that it shouldnt  have lent 
loans 2 and 3 but has said it lent loan1 responsibly.
As loans  2 and 3 have been resolved, I will focus  on giving the reasons for my decision 
concerning loan 1 which  was lent in March 2017  and repaid in September 2018.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  for these reasons:
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer  will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner  without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
Given the length of the loan, I think Greenlight should have been  carrying out a 
thorough check to verify  some  of the information  Mr P provided and reacted to the 
results of its findings.
Mr P has provided his bank statements from the time of loan 1, and Ive used this to 
understand his financial  circumstances at the time. From what I can seem, Mr Ps 
income was similar  to £1,800 which he declared at the time of the loan application.
But I can also see that he was regularly transferring funds to another  account.  Mr P 
has said he had a gambling addiction and these  funds were being  used to fund this 
addiction.
I find this explanation plausible. I say this because  the funds were  transferred in 
several transactions a day, this is a similar pattern to which gambling transactions  
would show on a bank  statement. Also,  from looking at Mr Ps subsequent bank 
statements, I can see that it was a pattern that continued.
Had Greenlight carried  out what I consider to be proportionate steps,  its likely  to 
have found that around the time of this loan, Mr P spent more  than he earned and 
from what I can see, it appears Mr P spent  more than £1,000 on gambling. I can also 
see that hed borrowed from other  high cost credit lenders. This wasnt  a sustainable  
position. As a responsible lender, it shouldnt have lent Mr P loan 1 and it needs  to 
put things right.
Putting things  right  what  Greenlight  needs to do
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result  of loans 1, 2 and 3;
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN10092922remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit  file as a result of the interest 
and charges on these  loans;
HM Revenue & Customs requires Greenlight to take off tax from this interest.  Greenlight must  give 
Mr P a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he/she asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Greenlight Credit Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2020.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1009292