K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society rejected his claim under section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect of a damaged mirror.
background
Mr K bought a mirror in April 2018 which  he says was delivered mid May.  He was busy  and 
didnt open the packaging,  but he didnt see any signs  of damage.  He says he stored it in a 
safe place and when he opened  it in late September he discovered the mirror  was damaged.  
He contacted Nationwide and it spoke  to the supplier which said it couldnt replace  the mirror 
given the time which had elapsed, but it offered him a £50 discount on a replacement. It 
didnt pursue the matter further as it was outside the time limit for making  a chargeback.  
However, it failed to let Mr K know that he could also make  a claim under section 75.
Mr K made a section  75 claim, but this was rejected by Nationwide.  It said that it was 
impossible to say when the damage  had occurred  and so it couldnt  accept there  had been a 
breach of contract.  Nationwide accepted Mr K had to chase up a response and paid him 
£100 compensation. Mr K complained and also asked for a letter of deadlock.  Nationwide  
delayed matters and so paid him a further £75 compensation.
Mr K brought his complaint n to this service  where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. Mr K said that the onus was on the 
supplier to prove that the goods  werent  damaged by it or its delivery  agent.
Our investigator noted this point, but said Mr K had the mirror  for around  five months before 
reporting the damage which could  have happened at any point. Overall she didnt think  it 
was unreasonable for Nationwide to decline the claim, as it was impossible  to establish 
when the damage  occurred.  She said she believed it would be different if Mr K had 
inspected the mirror  on delivery and reported the damage right away,  as it would then be fair 
to place the onus on the business.
She accepted Nationwide hadnt handled the claim as well as it could, but thought the £175  
compensation was fair. She noted  that this wasnt far short of the price of the mirror. Mr K 
didnt agree and said that the onus  was on the supplier and therefore Nationwide to prove 
the mirror was delivered damaged. He said the compensation had nothing to do with the 
actual claim,  but Nationwides  handling failures and should not be taken into account in 
assessing his complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Ref: DRN11861522Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
In claims such  as this the general position is the consumer must  show  there is a fault with 
the goods. But if they can do this and the fault demonstrates to us that the goods werent of 
satisfactory quality in the first six months after purchase/supply then broadly speaking the 
onus is on the supplier to show that the goods  did actually conform  to the contract  when 
supplied. However,  this does not apply if the fault is in all likelihood  due to a reason other 
than the goods not conforming to the contract  when supplied - such as usually expected  
wear and tear or accidental damage/lack of maintenance.
I note the invoice supplied to us by Mr K states:  Please  check  your order for damage and 
shortages within 48 hours to allow us time to correct any issues . Its website also says: 
Your goods  must be checked for damage or shortage within  30 days  of delivery, after this 
time we will not able to provide a refund for these items. This didnt happen and the supplier 
and Nationwide  were  not able to prove  the mirror wasnt damaged at the point of 
sale/delivery.
This service is an informal alternative to the courts and my role is to decide on the basis of 
what is fair and reasonable to both parties  with due regard to the law. In this case  I dont 
consider it either fair or reasonable for Nationwide to cover the cost of the mirror.  Quite 
simply Mr K denied  the supplier the opportunity to inspect the mirror for some four months.  It 
is quite possible that it was damaged at any point and I cannot  say that the mirror wasnt 
damaged after delivery.  I cannot be satisfied there was a breach of contract. 
So while I appreciate Mr Ks arguments I dont consider acceptance  of those would lead to a 
fair and reasonable outcome. As for the service offered by Nationwide I can see that it has 
accepted it let him down and has paid compensation. I consider that to have  been  fair and 
reasonable and I dont  think  it need  do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 
26 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1186152