K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the actions of Zopa Limited in respect of a loan he took out in 2014.
background
Mr T took out a loan of £20,360  with Zopa  in March 2014 at an APR of 7.5%. It was 
repayable over 5 years  with monthly  repayments set in the region  of £398. 
In December 2018 Mr T complained to Zopa. He said that it had unfairly registered a default  
on the account in February  2016 and passed the account between itself and debt collection 
companies. He also feels  Zopa didnt  sufficiently help him when he told it he was struggling 
to make payments  in September  2015. 
To put things right Mr T asked Zopa to pay him compensation for the stress hed been 
caused by its poor practices. He also asked that any charges it had applied to his account be 
refunded, and the default removed.
Zopa felt it had treated Mr T fairly. So he brought his complaint  to our service.  He says these 
issues have had a huge impact on his work  and ability to apply for jobs.  And he doesnt think  
Zopa should have  given  him the loan at all. Hes explained he was gambling heavily at the 
time he applied  for the loan, but says Zopa didnt look at his bank statements before 
approving his application.
Our investigator didnt  find that Zopa had made  an error. He thought it had carried out 
appropriate checks before  giving Mr T the loan. And that it had offered him suitable options 
when hed let it know of his financial difficulties. He said Zopa was within its rights to sell the 
debt or have a third party agency act on its behalf.  And that it had a responsibility  to provide 
accurate information  to credit agencies.
Mr T didnt  agree with this view. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr T will be disappointed but Ive 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator  did here. Ill explain why.
irresponsible lending  
Theres no set list of checks  a business has to make  before approving a loan application. But 
its expected to carry out reasonable  and proportionate checks  to see if the lending is 
affordable for the applicant. What is reasonable and proportionate depends, amongst other 
things, on; the size of the loan, the cost of the repayments, the applicants lending  history,  
and what the business already knew about  the applicant. 
Zopa has shown us that when it extended this loan to Mr T it calculated his disposable 
income and looked at his level of unsecured debt. It also considered his repayment  history 
on previous loans hed had with it, which I can see was very good. And it took into account 
the fact Mr T had advised the loan would  be used to consolidate some existing debts. It felt 
his history of credit  supported a loan of this size. Like our investigator, Im satisfied these 
checks were sufficient.  
Ref: DRN10630792Mr T has told us he was gambling heavily at the time Zopa gave him this loan and feels  it 
should have checked his bank statements  which  would have shown this activity.  But Zopa 
wasnt required to do this. And I dont think its unreasonable  that it didnt here. 
Even if Zopa  had seen  that Mr T had been  making gambling transactions,  I dont think  this 
would have necessarily  meant it shouldnt have  lent to him. Many people choose  to spend 
money in this way, and theyre entitled  to do so. And I havent seen any evidence  Mr T had 
told Zopa he felt his gambling  was a problem. 
financial difficulties
When a customer is experiencing financial difficulties a business has a duty to respond in a 
positive and sympathetic  manner.
In September  2015 Mr T called Zopa to advise that he was struggling with his loan 
repayments. Ive listened  to a recording of this call and can hear that Mr T explained his wife 
had lost her job and asked if he could repay his loan over a longer period to reduce  the 
monthly minimum payment. Zopas  advisor explained that it wasnt its policy to agree this. 
But said they could  instead put him on a reduced repayment arrangement for six months and 
freeze interest on any arrears. Mr T said he didnt want to do this due to the impact on his 
credit file. 
I can hear the advisor then explained  that they could  give Mr T contact details  for 
StepChange if hed like to talk to them to get some free debt advice. But he declined this 
offer too. The advisor asked some further  questions to better understand Mr Ts situation.  
And tried to encourage  him to complete income  and expenditure  details.  They also reiterated 
that he could call back at any point before his payment was due if he reconsidered and felt 
he needed assistance.
I appreciate Mr T is frustrated that Zopa  didnt  agree  to the changes  he wanted  here.  But it 
wasnt under  any obligation to extend  the term of his loan. And I do think  its offer of a 
reduced repayment plan was a fair one in the circumstances, and showed a positive and 
sympathetic response  to his situation.  I understand  Mr T was concerned about his credit  
record. But when he took out this loan he entered into a loan contract. And I think its 
reasonable to expect  that deviation from the terms of this contract would  be reflected on his 
credit file. 
Mr T says that he contacted Zopa  again  in an attempt to agree a reduced repayment  
arrangement after he first missed a loan repayment  in October  2015.  He says the advisor he 
spoke to suggested he repay an amount in the region of £300  a month. But that he felt he 
couldnt afford this and asked to make payments of £200, which Zopa refused to agree to.
Zopa has no records of a further  call with Mr T around this time. But its explained that in 
situations like this it deals  with cases based on individual circumstances and can ask 
consumers to complete  income and expenditure forms to check  the affordability of a 
repayment offer. Its told us that it feels its very unlikely it would have asked for reduced 
repayments of £300  against regular repayments  of £398. And has also pointed out that it 
later accepted a repayment plan as low as £150  a month, so again thinks it is unlikely an 
offer of £200 would  have been rejected.
Ref: DRN10630793Where information is incomplete or contradictory  (as it is here),  I have to make  my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think  is most  likely to have happened 
given all of the circumstances of the complaint. 
Unfortunately I cant be certain  as to the details  of any discussions the parties mightve had 
at this time.  But considering how Zopa  responded on the first call it had with Mr T in 
September 2015, and the £150 repayment arrangement  it later reached with him (which I will 
refer to below), I do think its unlikely Zopa would have dismissed a repayment offer at this 
stage without attempting to take steps to check how much Mr T could afford to repay at this 
time. It is common  for banks to ask for financial details  before setting up a reduced  
repayment plan.  And I havent seen or heard  any evidence to suggest that Mr T completed 
income and expenditure forms to provide it with this information. 
Zopa recorded a default on the account in February 2016. Generally  a default can be 
registered when  an account is at least three months in arrears. And normally by the time it is 
six months in arrears. I can see Mr T had missed 4 repayments at this point (October, 
November and December  2015 and January 2016). So Im satisfied Zopa was entitled  to 
apply a default to his account. Its contact notes  indicate  that it sent various letters  to Mr T to 
advise him of failed  direct  debits, give notice of arrears, and give notice of default  before it 
was recorded.  So I havent found  that it made any error in this respect  either. 
Mr T called Zopa again in June 2016 and agreed a reduced repayment plan with it at this 
point. I can hear he said he felt he could afford to pay £180 a month.  Zopa said it would 
accept £150 a month on a temporary six-month arrangement, to start in July 2016. It also 
explained that the repayment plan could be cancelled if Mr T failed to make payments.  
Mr T complains that Zopa didnt then collect these payments. However Ive listened to the 
call he had with Zopa at this time, and I hear the advisor told Mr T he would need to set up 
the payment himself.  No direct debit  was discussed  at this point. Ive also looked carefully at 
Zopas records and I havent  seen any other evidence to suggest Mr T asked it to set up a 
direct debit for these  repayments at a later date. Or that he contacted  it before March  2017 
(when he spoke to a third party  handling  his account) to query why payments hadnt  been 
taken. So whilst I appreciate there  may have been some  misunderstanding here and Mr T 
intended to make these  payments, I dont think I can reasonably say that they werent  
collected due to an error on Zopas  part.  
I can see Mr Ts account has been  handled  by several third parties  over the duration  of 
these issues. And I understand hes unhappy  about  this and may have found it confusing. 
But Zopa was entitled  to assign Mr Ts account to a third party,  or engage  a third party to act 
on its behalf if it wished.  And its contact  notes indicate Mr T was informed when his account  
was passed to a third party,  and on one occasion back to Zopa.  So again, I havent found  
that it acted unreasonably.  
I do empathise with Mr T. Its clear he was keen to make repayments  towards  his loan. And I 
appreciate he has been  through some  difficult times.  But for the reasons Ive outlined  above 
I havent found that Zopas made any errors  here. 
Ref: DRN10630794my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1063079