K820x#14complaint
Mr P says that Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr P took out a loan with Lloyds in 1999.  At the same time he was sold a PPI policy which  
wouldve covered  the repayments on his loan for up to 12 months at a time if he couldnt 
work. The cost of the policy  was added to his loan and he paid interest on it.
Mr P says that the policy was added without his knowledge or consent and the full cost 
wasnt explained.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Ps complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mr P disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Over 19 years has passed since the loan and PPI were  sold,  so unsurprisingly  neither party  
can provide much evidence about  the sale. Lloyds has provided a sample copy  of the loan 
agreement that was in use at the time. I can see from this that the PPI is shown separately 
to the loan and is described as optional. There is also a separate box where the customer  
has to tick yes or no for the PPI.
I think its likely Mr P saw and signed this form, or a form very like it. I dont think its likely 
that the loan couldve completed  without this loan agreement.  And I think its likely he opted  
for the PPI. So, on balance, on the limited information available  to me I think Mr P chose to 
buy the PPI knowing  he didnt have to, although I understand why he cant  remember this so 
many years later.
Lloyds advised  Mr P to buy the policy, so it had an obligation to take reasonable steps  to 
make sure it was suitable for him. It also had an obligation to make sure Mr P had all the 
information he needed to make his decision.
Looking at Mr Ps circumstances at the time I think  it was suitable. I say this because:
Mr P was eligible  for the cover and wouldnt have been  affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such  as 
those relating to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr P had some sick pay, but the policy  wouldve paid out in addition to that and 
potentially for longer;
Mr P has said he had some savings he couldve used to meet the cost of the 
repayments. He says the savings  were worth many times  the value  of the loan  at 
least six months salary- but I havent  seen  any evidence of this. Mr P was taking an 
Ref: DRN19984472interest-bearing loan for a relatively small sum.  I think if hed had significant savings 
he wouldnt  have taken  the loan; 
The cost of the policy was comparable with other  similar policies on the market  
around the same time;
If Mr P had wanted the cancel the PPI policy its likely he wouldnt have received a 
proportionate refund of premiums. But I havent  seen  anything to suggest  that was 
something Mr P intended to do.
Its possible Mr P didnt  get all the information  he shouldve  done. For example I dont know  
how the interest payable on the premium was explained to Mr P. But it was a relatively  small 
amount  about £11. So I dont think if hed understood  this it wouldve made  a difference  to 
his decision to buy it. And Ive explained why I think the policy  was suitable  so I dont think  
more information  about the terms and conditions wouldve changed Mr Ps decision either.
So, on balance, on the limited information  I have,  I dont think Mr P lost out as a result  of 
anything Lloyds did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint, so it follows  that Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1998447