K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains on behalf of herself  and her parents, Mr S and Mrs V, that Metro Bank PLC 
didnt transfer  funds to a different account  as requested. Because of this, she lost interest  
payments. She would like to be compensated for her loss of these payments.
background
On 13 April 2018, Mrs K made  an online transfer of £20,000 from the joint account  that she 
held with her parents  at Metro Bank PLC to an ISA account. She had confirmation  that the 
transfer was to be processed and thought nothing more  of it. It was only around a month 
later when she checked the account that she found  that the transfer hadnt gone through. 
On 11 May 2018, Mrs K called the bank.  She asked  what  her account balance  was and said 
that she had been expecting it to be less because the transfer shouldve gone  through.  She 
complained that she had lost interest in the ISA account where  the money shouldve been 
transferred and wanted compensation. 
The bank investigated the complaint. They found that they had tried to call Mrs K on 13 and 
14 April 2018 a number  of times. They  had also sent an SMS to her mobile number  on 13 
April 2018 asking her to call about  the transfer. They said that their policy was to try and 
contact the customer  if money was being  held. They found that they had correctly followed 
their process and didnt  uphold the complaint. 
Mrs K wasnt  happy with this decision so she came  to us. 
Our adjudicator investigated the complaint. He found that the banks records showed that 
they had tried to contact  Mrs K a number of times  on 13 and 14 April 2018  and that they had 
sent an SMS  on 13 April 2018. He thought  that the bank had taken reasonable steps to 
contact her.
Mrs K argued that the bank shouldve contacted the other account holders if they couldnt 
contact her. Our adjudicator found  that this mightve  been a breach of data rules  so that the 
bank were right not to contact others. 
Mrs K wasnt  happy with this outcome so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mrs K isnt going to be happy with my decision. I dont  think  that the bank has done 
anything wrong. I will explain why. 
I appreciate that Mrs K thought that the transfer had gone through  as there was nothing to 
indicate otherwise.  Also,  she said she had made a similar transfer before without any 
problems. 
But, I can understand the banks reason for wanting to check  the transfer. The banks terms 
and conditions for the account state that they might delay payments whilst they carry out anti 
fraud prevention checks. They also expect account holders to contact them  as soon as 
Ref: DRN10847722possible if a message has been  left for them. The bank will take necessary action to prevent 
fraud. I think  that the bank acted fairly and reasonably in stopping  the payment until they 
could speak to Mrs K. 
So, the next thing to consider is whether the bank did make reasonable attempts to contact 
Mrs K. I have  seen the banks records and find that they did try to call her a number of times  
on 13 and 14 April 2018. I also see that a SMS was sent on 13 April 2018.  I have checked 
the number and found it is the same as that which we hold for Mrs K. So, I think that the 
bank made  reasonable attempts to call Mrs K. 
Mrs K thinks  that the bank  shouldve called the other  account  holders. I dont agree with our 
adjudicator that this wouldve been a breach of data protection. This is because, as joint 
account holders,  they are entitled  to know what is happening on the account. But, I dont 
think that the bank  were  under any obligation  to call them. I think  that it was enough that they 
tried to contact Mrs K. 
So, I dont think that the bank has acted  unfairly  or unreasonably. 
my final decision
I think that Metro Bank PLC did everything  they could to try to contact  Mrs K about her 
transfer. So, I wont be asking them to do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1084772