K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Everyday Lending  Limited  irresponsibly  lent him a high cost credit loan 
in September  2015.
background
Everyday Lending  lent Mr M one loan in September  2015. The loan was for £1,000 with a 
24-month term. Mr M was due to make  monthly  repayments of £66.65, the total repayment 
at the end of the term was £1,599.60. 
Mr M complained to Everyday Lending in 2018,  it didnt  uphold his complaint as it said it 
carried out checks that showed Mr M could afford  the loan before  it agreed  to lend. Unhappy 
with Everyday Lendings decision,  Mr M referred  his complaint to this service where it was 
looked at by one of our adjudicators.
Our adjudicator thought that Everyday Lending lent to Mr M when it should have known that 
he couldnt sustainably  repay and so he recommended that the complaint should be upheld. 
Everyday Lending  didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment and as the complaint 
remains unresolved,  its been passed  to me an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to ensure the 
consumer could repay without borrowing further or suffering  significant  adverse 
consequences to their finances.
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks  needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed  was due to be repaid. 
I can see that before Lending Everyday Lending  carried out a number of checks  before 
lending to Mr M. It asked him about  his monthly  income and living expenses including credit 
commitments. Mr M declared his income  as £1,462.67. Mr M declared his rent as £280 and 
his credit commitment was around  £75 per month.  Everyday Lendings loan was meant to be 
used to consolidate Mr Ms other loans.
Everyday Lending  verified Mr Ms income  by requesting payslips  and his bank statements. It 
also says it carried out a search on Mr Ms credit file, but it hasnt  provided  the results  of it 
search. Everyday Lending  says that it worked out Mr Ms disposable income as £603, after 
hes made the repayment of £66.65 towards the loan.
Ref: DRN13379332From what  Ive seen, I think Everyday Lendings checks went  far enough but I dont think  it 
reacted sufficiently to the results of its checks.  It has said it increased  Mr Ms monthly living  
costs to £500 and it was based on this higher amount that it lent. Im mindful that on the 
bank statements Everyday Lending  saw before lending, it was clear that Mr M was spending 
a significant portion of his income on gambling.
Everyday Lending  would  have seen that in August 2015, Mr M spent around £600  on 
gambling transactions and in September 2015,  the gambling transactions  were around  £890. 
These are significant sums compared to Mr Ms income of under £1,500.
Everyday Lending  should have known  that this loan would  adversely impact Mr Ms financial  
situation and it shouldnt have lent to him as it was unsustainable.  Everyday  Lending needs  
to put things right. Mr Ms credit file shows that Mr M defaulted on the loan in September 
2017 and there was a default balance of £576. 
Ive also carefully thought  about everything  provided to see if Everyday Lending  acted 
unfairly in some other  way. Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here that leads me to 
conclude Everyday Lending acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way.  
Putting things  right  what  Everyday  Lending needs to do
To put things right for Mr M, Everyday Lending  should:
remove all the interest and charges applied to the loan; and
treat all payments made by Mr M as repayments  towards the capital amount of £1,000;
if this results in overpayments, add interest  at 8% per year simple on the overpayments 
from the date they were paid, if they were,  to the date of settlement;
if theres still an outstanding  balance,  Everyday Lending should agree a suitable 
repayment plan with Mr M;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result  of the interest 
and charges on this loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. Everyday 
Lending must give Mr M a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require Everyday Lending  
Limited to put things  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1337933