K822xcomplaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about advice given by Equus Independent Financial Management 
Limited (Equus) to transfer her Executive Pension Plans (EPPs) to a personal pension plan. 
Mrs B says the advice  wasnt  in her best interests.    
Fairstone Financial Management (City) Limited (Fairstone)  is now responsible for the advice 
Equus gave. 
background 
Mrs B was a member of two EPPs. At the time of the advice, in 2006, she was 43 years  old. 
Her intended retirement age was 60. She didnt have any other  pension  arrangements  apart 
from the two EPPs. The Standard Life EPP had a transfer value of £19,006.70.  The transfer 
value of the AXA Sun Life EPP was £4,349.20.  Mrs B had been  a member of the AXA Sun 
Life plan since 1 January 1996  and the Standard Life Plan since  1 February 2002 while she 
was employed by her now ex husband. Shed left her employment, and both EPPs,  in April 
2004. 
In Autumn 2006 Mrs B received correspondence  from Equus about her EPPs, including  a 
recommendation letter dated 16 October 2006.  It explained that, due to legislative changes 
brought about by A Day, the adviser had reviewed Mrs Bs ex husbands company pension 
arrangements. 
Having done so, he was recommending that Mrs B, and the other EPP members,  update  
their pension arrangements  to benefit from A Day pensions simplification and the new rules. 
If all members transferred to the same pension provider at the same  time, their higher tax 
free cash  entitlements could be retained; the EPP providers  ongoing  reporting  requirements 
would be removed; ongoing charges would be reduced; Mrs B would have increased 
retirement flexibility; greater investment diversity; greater control and powers; and easier  
future administration.  
Theres some dispute about  some  of the documents  Mrs B was sent to complete and sign 
and whether information was added after shed signed them.  And its unclear if the adviser 
discussed Mrs Bs attitude to risk (ATR) with her. But Mrs B signed  the recommendation 
letter on 21 November 2006 and the other documentation for the transfers to go ahead. 
In early 2019 Mrs B complained to Fairstone (who had by then acquired Equus) about the 
advice shed been given. Fairstone didnt  uphold the complaint and Mrs B referred  it to us. 
The investigator issued  her view on 26 March 2020. She reached different conclusions about 
each EPP.  
She didnt  think transferring out of the AXA SunLife EPP was unsuitable. A trustee was 
needed for reporting purposes and a new trustee would have to be appointed as the existing 
trustee (Mrs Bs ex husband) didnt  want to continue. Mrs B was unlikely to have wanted to 
have taken over trustee responsibilities herself. And she couldnt  have  transferred  this EPP 
into her other EPP. So essentially she had no real choice but to transfer. Mrs B had said her 
ATR wasnt discussed, even though  the documentation says she and the adviser had a 
conversation about it. So it was unclear how the balanced ATR had been reached.  But the 
personal pension  had been invested in line with how the EPP had been invested.  
Ref: DRN12975502The investigator upheld  the complaint about  the other EPP.  In summary she said:
It was part of a master trust and the provider  was the trustee. If Mrs B had wanted  to 
stay in that EPP she could have done,  even if other members had chosen  to transfer 
out. 
Two of the funds  Mrs B was invested  in had valuable guarantees. 
The recommendation report mentioned a reduction in ongoing  charges. The only 
charge applicable to this EPP was a 0.825% annual management charge (AMC).  
The report said the charge for the proposed personal pension  would  be 0.8% a year 
as Mrs Bs fund value was over £50,000.  But that wasnt correct.  Her full transfer was 
around £22,000. Which meant  the actual  charge  was a 1% AMC. 
As to how those charges would affect  the benefits available  to Mrs B at retirement,  
the figures in the comparisons showed a slight  increase in benefits within the new 
proposed plan  if the fund grew at 5% pa Mrs B could be £334 better off with the 
new plan, or £751 better off if the fund grew at 9% pa. It wasnt  clear if those figures 
took into account the guarantees Mrs B would be giving  up. 
Overall, the investigator  wasnt satisfied  that Mrs B needed to transfer her Standard Life 
EPP. Her view was that the advice was geared towards the other  members  of the EPP.  The 
personal pension  had higher charges, a higher risk investment and Mrs B had to pay 4.5% of 
the fund value for the transfer. 
The investigator upheld  this part of the complaint  and set out how Fairstone should redress  
Mrs B. 
Both Mrs B and Fairstone  commented. Mrs B said that adding information after shed signed 
the documents could be seen as fraud and should  be addressed. She thought  the £250 
compensation recommended by the investigator for distress and inconvenience  was too low. 
And she wasnt confident  that Fairstone would calculate the compensation correctly. 
The investigator acknowledged what Mrs B had said about adding information  after 
documents had been signed but said she thought  Mrs B would have signed the forms 
anyway. She maintained  that £250 was fair compensation.  She said the calculations were 
complex and would probably  take longer than four weeks to complete, especially as 
information would have to be obtained  from the EPP provider. Fairstone would be expected 
to provide a breakdown of the calculation and share the information  used  with Mrs B. It was 
possible that she hadnt suffered any loss but that would only be known once the calculation  
had been carried  out.  
Fairstone didnt accept  the investigators  findings. Fairstone said, if Mrs B hadnt transferred 
and had been left on her own in the EPP, then potentially she wouldnt have been able to 
transfer later to a more  flexible personal  pension  without  losing her protected tax free cash 
as shed have  no one to block transfer with. And Fairstone understood from the EPP 
provider that Mrs B would  have had reporting  requirements going forward after A Day on the 
EPP although Fairstone  cant  now establish  thats  what the provider  said at the time.
The advice was given  some thirteen years ago. ATR wasnt  then generally established by 
completing any questionnaire but by interaction with the client.  It wasnt  fair to apply todays 
higher standards to the advice process then. The adviser never met Mrs B but relied on 
information given  by her ex husband. Theres no hard evidence that the adviser  contacted 
Mrs B. But that was his usual practice  so Fairstone  suggested he would have done.  
Ref: DRN12975503Fairstone focused  on the recommendation report which  Mrs B had signed. Fairstone said 
there was no point in a client  signing  the report  which covers the clients  objectives, the 
risks, advantages and disadvantages and explains why the recommendation is suitable  to 
confirm theyve read and understood, if the report is later deemed  irrelevant. And Mrs B 
hadnt raised any queries with the adviser.  But, years later, she now seeks  to revisit the 
advice process and says she has no idea what risk profile was and the investments arent in 
line with her requirements. Thats all clearly documented in the report,  which also records  
that Mrs B wanted to consolidate her pensions  for easier ongoing  administration  and greater 
fund choice and flexibility and to take advantage  of the block transfer. 
In particular Fairstone  pointed to: 
The report said that risk had been  discussed.  That suggests the adviser did speak 
about risk during  the advice process.  Otherwise Mrs B or her ex husband would have  
queried what the report said.   
The report says, several times,  that Mrs Bs agreed ATR was balanced. And a 
description of what that meant was given. Mrs B was asked to say if that wasnt  a 
true reflection  of her risk profile. 
The report highlighted the with-profits  guarantees,  that theyd be lost on transfer and 
that they didnt  reflect  Mrs Bs balanced  ATR. The with-profits  fund is seen as a 
cautious investment.  Mrs B had a long period before  retirement and could accept a 
higher degree  of risk to try to achieve  better returns over the longer period. 
Page  3 clearly  confirms how the with the with-profits fund works and notes that the 
4% guaranteed  growth rate only applies if the member  goes  on to buy an annuity  
within five years of selected retirement  date (SRD). Flexi access  drawdown is more  
likely in which case the 4% guarantee isnt relevant. It cant be assumed that the fund 
would return 4% pa (3.175% after charges).
Page  8 confirmed  that it was important that Mrs B was happy with the change of fund 
managers and they type of funds that the new provider offered. 
A modelling tool was used to determine the asset allocation  for a balanced investor. 
It also explained what a balanced risk is. Mrs B was given a copy  and didnt query  it.  
Fairstone also disagreed with some  of the points  made by the investigator. Amongst other 
things Fairstone said:
The guarantees only applied if Mrs B bought an annuity from Standard  Life within  five 
years of her SRD. It shouldnt be assumed that annuitisation would be the best 
option. The guarantees and the fact theyd  be lost on transfer and that the fund didnt 
fit Mrs Bs agreed balanced ATR were  highlighted in the report. 
The projections were  based  on the correct charges for the new plan,  although the 
report showed an incorrect annual  charge  of 0.8%. If the old and new plan had 
achieved the same growth rates, Mrs B wouldnt have been  worse off with the new 
plan based on charges and shed have been  slightly better off as the new plan had a 
reducing charge  as the fund value  increased.  The projections show shed be slightly 
better off which addresses the concern that the transfer was not in Mrs Bs best 
interests, based on fees. 
It isnt correct that Mrs B had to pay 4.5% of the fund value for the transfer. No exit or 
entry fees applied.  Commission  of 4.5%  was paid to Equus but by the new provider 
and not deducted as a fee from the transfer  value. 
It was in Mrs Bs interests that she wasnt left as a lone member of the EPP. She also 
wanted to consolidate,  she required greater flexibility and fund choice and it had 
Ref: DRN12975504been agreed with her that the with-profits fund didnt match her ATR. It seems 
hindsight had been used which wasnt a fair reason to uphold  a complaint. 
The investigator had said the Mrs B would have invested differently but had said it 
was unclear precisely  what shed have done. There was unequivocal doubt and so 
not a valid reason  to uphold the complaint.  The report  at the time clearly shows 
where Mrs B would be investing and shed signed  the report  to confirm. Mrs B would 
also have received annual statements from the provider  confirming her investment 
funds, values and performance. 
What the investigator had said, about the investments for the other  EPP being in line 
with how Mrs B had previously been  invested, applied to both EPPs.  
The investigator considered all Fairstone had said. But she maintained  the advice was 
geared towards other members of the EPP. The suitability letter contained  incorrect  
information about charges. And it led Mrs B to believe, if she stayed in the EPP,  the trustee 
(her ex husband)  would have increased  reporting  responsibilities. The personal pension may 
have offered greater  fund choice and more flexibility but it didnt seem Mrs B required that at 
the time.  Shed provided copies of the documents, with post it notes  placed  where  she had 
to sign. The documents she was asked  to sign contained no information about her ATR. It 
seems that had been added afterwards. It was unclear why the adviser would have left that 
part blank if it had been discussed with Mrs B before the forms were sent out. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Fairstone has said about  Equus having been a directly authorised  firm at the 
time of the advice.  But Fairstone later acquired Equus and theres no dispute  that Fairstone 
is now responsible  for the advice Equus gave. 
Fairstone has also pointed out that Mrs B didnt complain earlier. But, and given that 
Fairstone doesnt  dispute Mrs Bs right to bring  a complaint and doesnt seek  to argue that 
its too late for her to complain, Ive concentrated on the complaint itself and not why Mrs B 
has only raised her concerns more recently. 
As Ive said above,  theres some dispute  about whether anything was discussed with Mrs B 
about her ATR and if she was given  incomplete  documents to sign.  I can understand why 
Mrs B would feel very strongly, especially about  information being added later. But, given the 
time thats  elapsed, I think it would  be very difficult to ascertain now exactly  what may have 
happened. I think there may also be questions about  how things started and who was driving 
the review of Mrs Bs pension arrangements  and the advice process.  But Ive concentrated 
on what Fairstone has pointed to as key  the recommendation letter and supporting 
documents. 
I understand all Fairstone says about  what the suitability report. But I dont think  its the case  
that weve disregarded the report or the fact that Mrs B signed to say shed read and 
understood it and didnt  raise any queries. Even  if she understood the basis  on which  the 
advice to transfer was given,  and she accepted  that at the time, that doesnt mean she cant 
later query whether the recommendation was in fact suitable for her. Weve looked  at 
whether the recommendation to transfer was suitable and justified for the reasons set out in 
the report.  
Ref: DRN12975505I agree  the report makes  it clear that the adviser was proceeding on the basis  that Mrs Bs 
ATR was balanced.  The report says that more  than once and gives a definition  for a 
balanced investment  profile. But, and as Fairstone accepts, theres no firm evidence that 
was discussed  with Mrs B to ensure  that she really understood what that ATR meant and the 
degree of risk shed  be taking with the funds  that were being recommended  for the new 
personal pension.  I dont think it was acceptable for the adviser to rely on what Mrs Bs ex-
husband may have  said about  Mrs Bs ATR. 
It was apparently the advisers normal practice  to contact the client  direct. I know Fairstone 
says that would have happened here but theres  nothing to show that it did, aside from the 
fact that Mrs B signed the recommendation letter which recorded thered been  a discussion. 
But, on the other hand, the report was, in my view, reasonably clear and Mrs B didnt  
question it at the time. So its perhaps  not unreasonable to assume she understood the 
recommendation and the basis on which it was made. But I still dont think the 
recommendation was suitable. 
I take Fairstones point that if, at a later stage,  Mrs B had wanted to transfer out of the EPP 
she may have been unable  to preserve her entitlement to higher tax free cash if all the other 
members had transferred  and so there  could be no block or buddy transfer. But, as things 
stood in 2006, Standard  Life had confirmed, if Mrs B had wanted to stay in the EPP, shed 
have been able to do that, even if the other members had chosen to transfer out. I dont think  
it would  be right to say the advice, in her case,  was suitable when theres nothing to say that 
shed have necessarily  later wanted to transfer.  
And the funds that Mrs B was invested  had guarantees, which shed lose on transfer. For the 
with-profits investment, the guaranteed  amount would  grow by at least 4% pa before 
charges. Mrs B couldnt  add to the amount invested  and benefiting from the guarantee. For 
the other fund, the guaranteed amount before charges was guaranteed not to fall. Adding 
bonuses would increase it, therefore  increasing the value  of the guarantees. 
Fairstone has pointed  out that the guarantees only applied if Mrs B bought  an annuity with 
Standard Life within five years of her SRD. Annuitisation may now be far less popular, 
especially given the pensions freedoms, and flexi access  drawdown might be an attractive 
option when Mrs B comes  to take her benefits. But I think in 2006  the guarantees, even if 
only available on annuity purchase within five years  of SRD, would have been seen as 
valuable. 
I dont necessarily agree that a with-profits fund is automatically unsuitable  for an investor 
with a balanced ATR. Especially if valuable guarantees will be lost on transferring away. 
With-profits funds are usually regarded a low to medium  risk. The degree of risk will depend 
on the exact make up of the fund. According to the recommendation letter, Standard  Lifes  
with-profits fund included  property (19.10%),  UK equity (28.40%) and overseas equity 
(13.60%). 
Mrs B may have been  in a position to take a medium risk with her pension fund. But that 
doesnt mean she should have been advised to transfer and give up potentially  valuable 
guarantees. Especially  when it seems the projections for the new plan didnt indicate  that 
Mrs B was likely to be much, if at all, better off.
I note what Fairstone has said about  the 4.5% commission  being paid by the new provider 
and not out of Mrs Bs transfer  value.  But the report did say, incorrectly, that thered be 
reduced ongoing charges with a personal pension.
Ref: DRN12975506Fairstone says the projections were based on the correct charges  and showed  that Mrs B 
would potentially be no worse off in the future  by transferring to the new plan based on 
charges accounting  for potential future growth and that she could be slightly  better off given 
the reduction in charges. But that was dependent on fund growth and there  was no 
guarantee that would  be achieved. 
I dont think any indication  that Mrs B would be no worse off is sufficient justification  for 
transferring. And when  the EPP provider has confirmed that, as the trustee, the burden of 
any increased reporting responsibilities  would have fallen on it and not on Mrs Bs ex-
husband. 
Nor do I think the other reasons  given for transferring were compelling. Mrs B might  have  
viewed consolidation, so she just had to deal with just one provider, as preferable.  But I dont 
see that, of itself, was sufficient reason  to justify transferring and when it wasnt clear  that 
she was going  to be significantly better  off financially. And it doesnt seem that, at the time, 
Mrs B had any need for greater fund choice or flexibility. All in all Im not convinced  that the 
transfer of the Standard Life EPP was necessary or in Mrs Bs best interests. 
For the other  EPP I agree with what the investigator said about  that and so Im not upholding 
that part of the complaint. 
The investigator said she didnt know exactly what  Mrs B would have done instead. But she 
went on to say shed  chosen the method of compensation she set out because she was 
satisfied it was most likely  that Mrs B wouldve remained invested in the Standard  Life EPP 
until retirement. The basis of the redress set out by the investigator is a comparison of the 
value of Mrs Bs personal pension attributable  to the Standard Life EPP transfer with what  
the Standard Life EPP would currently be worth  if Mrs B had retained  it. 
I agree  with the redress the investigator  suggested.  The calculation may or may not show  
Mrs B has suffered a loss. If she hasnt suffered any loss then no redress  will be payable 
aside from the £250  for the trouble and upset  shes suffered. I know  Mrs B doesnt think  
thats enough. But I think its fair and reasonable and in line with the sort of award wed make  
in this sort of situation. 
Mrs B is still some  way of SRD and so we dont know to what extent shed have benefited  
from the guarantees and if shed have bought an annuity within  five years of her SRD. But I 
dont think its unfair  to use a current notional transfer value for the Standard  Life EPP to see 
if Mrs B has suffered any loss. It allows  any redress to be calculated and paid now, so 
drawing a line under the matter. And we dont know, going  forwards, what  investment 
decisions Mrs B may make between now and SRD.  My decision is based on the fact that at 
the time the guarantees  would have been  seen as valuable and the transfer wasnt  justified. 
So its fair to see if, based on current values, Mrs B has suffered any loss. 
Id just add that, if there are difficulties in attributing a current value to the relevant portion of 
the personal pension fund, a proportional  or percentage approach  based on the original 
transfer values  can be used. 
To compensate Mrs B fairly  Fairstone  should:
Compare the performance of Mrs Bs with that of the benchmark  shown  below. If the 
fair value is greater than the actual value, theres a loss and compensation
Ref: DRN12975507is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
If theres a loss Fairstone should  pay into Mrs Bs pension  plan, to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation  and any interest. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Fairstone  is unable  to pay the compensation into Mrs Bs pension  plan,  it should  
pay that amount  direct  to her. But, had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income.  Therefore, the compensation should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using  Mrs Bs actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at her SRD. For example, if she is likely to be a basic  rate 
taxpayer at SRD, the reduction would equal the current basic  rate of tax. However, if 
Mrs B would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum,  the reduction should  be 
applied to the percentage of the compensation taking into account Mrs Bs enhanced 
tax free cash entitlement.
In addition, Fairstone  should pay Mrs B £250  for the trouble  and upset this matter 
has caused her.
Fairstone must  provide details of the loss calculation to Mrs B in a clear and simple 
format. The information provided  by Standard Life as to the current notional transfer 
value should also be provided. 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom  (start date)
to 
(end date) additional 
 interest
portion of the 
person pension attributable to 
the Standard 
Life EPP 
transfer onlystill exists notional   transfer  
value of Standard 
Life EPPdate of   
transferdate of 
settlementnot applicable
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Ref: DRN12975508Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because Im satisfied its most likely that with 
suitable advice  Mrs B wouldve remained invested  in the Standard Life EPP.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. 
Fairstone Financial Management (City) Limited must redress Mrs B as Ive out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1297550