K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) sold his outstanding  debt to 
a third party. The debt relates to the overdraft on a NatWest  current account. 
Mr P also disputes NatWest refunded interest to him in 2015 relating  to the same account. 
And doesnt accept  a phone call took place between him and NatWest on 12 July 2016 
about the debt in question. 
In addition, Mr P has told us hes unhappy  with the time and effort hes had to make 
corresponding about this complaint. 
background
Mr P was struggling financially in 2013, following which various  arrangements were made for 
Mr P to repay the debt. So for several years, Mr P has been making agreed payments 
(typically £1 per month) towards the outstanding  debt. In 2014 Mr Ps debt was defaulted 
and in 2016 NatWest said it let Mr P know the debt would  be passed to one of their partners 
 Company W  to manage. NatWest said they told Mr P about this in a phone  call on 12 
July 2016, which Mr P disputes. NatWest later went on to sell Mr Ps debt to a third party Ill 
refer to as Company S. 
NatWest wrote to Mr P on 26 February  2019 to let him know the debt was being  sold or 
assigned to Company S who would now be the legal owners of the debt; therefore, 
Company W was no longer managing  the debt on NatWests behalf. The letter  set out that 
the outstanding balance  on the account was £1,460  and that all payments going forward  
should be sent directly  to Company S. Details of how to do this and contact details for 
Company S were provided in the letter.  
A second letter dated the same date  26 February 2019  was sent to Mr P from Company 
S. This confirmed Company S had bought Mr Ps debt from NatWest, effective from 8 
February 2019, and that all payments  should now be sent to Company S. The letter 
confirmed instalments would remain the same and they would be reviewed  in the near future 
to ensure they were still affordable for Mr P. Company S provided  their contact details for 
Mr P. Mr P says these  letters came  to him in the same envelope  something he is also 
unhappy about.  
Mr P raised his concerns that the debt with NatWest had been sold  particularly as he says 
he had not missed any payments. And he received a reply to his complaint from the 
executive office of another entity  part of the same group as NatWest. Ill refer to this entity as 
Company R. 
The letter dated  13 March  2019  set out Company Rs understanding of what had happened 
to Mr Ps account. And it explained that going forward Company  W would be looking after 
Mr Ps debt and it referred Mr P to Company W. 
I understand Mr P then contacted Company R expressing his concern about how things had 
been handled. 
On 19 March 2019 Company R wrote to Mr P again  to provide further clarity about how the 
debt had been managed  and included some commentary about how the complaint  was dealt 
with. The letter also included an apology for incorrectly referring Mr P to Company W in their 
Ref: DRN15127702last letter  of 13 March  2019 - given at the time of issuing the letter on 13 March 2019  the 
debt had already  been  sold to Company S. Company  R however explained they were 
confident the correct  process had been  followed in relation to the sale of Mr Ps debt, so they 
didnt consider Mr Ps request for compensation. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. In summary, he said NatWest  had acted in 
line with the terms  of Mr Ps account in transferring their rights and responsibilities under the 
agreement to Company  S. And while  the investigator acknowledged  the error in Company 
Rs letter  of 13 March  2019, he recognised that NatWest had apologised for this and didnt  
feel anything further was warranted  in the circumstances.  
Mr P strongly disagreed with the investigators  opinion and in response raised the concerns 
about the refund in 2015 as well as querying the call from 12 July 2016. Our investigator 
made further enquiries and responded to Mr P to explain theyd seen internal evidence from 
NatWest which supported that £155.80 was refunded to Mr P on 19 May 2015.  And while a 
copy of the call recording wasnt  available due to the passage of time, NatWests debt 
manager notes  (which Mr P has had sight of) referred to the call with a brief description  of 
what was discussed.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive taken into account  any relevant 
law and regulation,  regulatory rules,  guidance and standards  and codes of practice  as well 
as what would have  been good industry practice  at the time. Having reviewed everything,  
Ive come to the same  conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same  reasons. 
I understand Mr P has raised other complaints  so, for clarity, my decision relates only to 
whether it was fair for NatWest to sell Mr Ps debt to Company S; whether a refund  was 
given to Mr P in 2015 and whether or not there  was a phone call on 12 July 2016 relating to 
what was happening with Mr Ps debt.  
Ive noted Mr Ps concerns about how the complaint has been handled by Company R, and 
his particular reference to correspondence between him and a representative of Company R. 
It may help Mr P to note that complaint  handling is not considered a regulated activity 
under the rules this service is required to follow. This means I cant look at how Company R 
handles complaints brought to their service. 
It may help Mr P to also know  that our service  is not the same as the regulator, the Financial  
Conduct Authority  (FCA).  Our role is to consider the individual circumstances of each 
complaint brought to our service. It is therefore not for us to review  wider firm behaviour;  fine 
or punish firms; investigate how firms handle their complaints  or review the processes they 
have in place  to deal with complaints. 
However, I have taken it that Mr P, in part, makes  reference to the communications about 
how the complaint  was handled, to illustrate  his concerns about Company R and NatWests  
ability to manage things in general   including the handling of his debt. Its unfortunate  the 
letter of 13 March 2019 from Company R contained incorrect  information,  but like the 
investigator I can see Company R apologised for this. 
Mr P feels  strongly that various errors hes seen from Company R and NatWest illustrate its 
not possible to believe what  these businesses are saying. And while  I acknowledge his 
Ref: DRN15127703concerns, I must be mindful of the overarching issue I have to consider  which is whether it 
was fair for NatWest to sell Mr Ps debt to Company  S. After looking at everything thats 
been made available to me, I think it was fair for NatWest  to sell Mr Ps debt. 
The terms and conditions  associated  with Mr Ps account explain that NatWest  may transfer 
our rights or responsibilities under this agreement to another person or organisation in the 
future. Well only do this if we reasonably  believe that youll be treated to a similar standard  
after the transfer as we treated you beforehand.  
I therefore think that selling Mr Ps debt was something NatWest were entitled  to do under 
the terms of the account. This is not an unusual term and banks will often make  commercial 
decisions to sell debts to third parties. So whether Mr P was making  the required payments 
wouldnt have influenced such a commercial decision. 
I also think NatWest have  done what they needed  to when they sold the debt on, by 
providing Mr P with details of the third party  and passing Mr Ps debt to a company that 
would continue to deal with things fairly and reasonably for Mr P. For example,  I can see 
from the submissions that the instalments have remained the same with Company S with a 
promise to review things  to ensure they are still affordable to Mr P. And I note that Company 
S  like NatWest - is also authorised and regulated by the FCA and therefore  subject to 
similar standards and scrutiny.
So I dont  think NatWest  have done  anything wrong  here by selling the debt to Company S. 
Ive also not seen anything to suggest  NatWest havent followed their processes to sell the 
debt or acted unfairly during the course of these events. 
Ive also considered Mr Ps concerns about  the refund  in May 2015 which was for interest 
payments. I understand Mr P has challenged whether  this refund happened as he has no 
statements that he can refer back to, or ability  to check things online anymore.  NatWest  
provided us with internal records showing that a refund was credited to Mr Ps account  on 19 
May 2015. Either side of this entry,  the ledger shows the £1 credits  Mr P was making 
towards the account. 
I appreciate Mr Ps wish to have absolute  certainty about this with more evidence.  However,  
Im satisfied, based on what Ive seen  that Mr Ps account was credited with £155.80 on 19 
May 2015. Ive no reason to believe this adjustment wasnt made. 
And regarding  the phone call on 12 July 2016 - its not always possible to know  for certain 
what may or may not have been discussed. When that happens, I have to consider  things  on 
the balance of probability  so what I think most likely happened. And based on what Ive 
seen, I think it more  likely than not that the call took place on 12 July 2016. Im aware Mr P 
disputes the validity of the debt notes, but Ive not seen enough to make  me think  the call 
didnt take place  and I dont consider  the details of the call changes whether or not it was 
fair of NatWest to sell the debt. So Im afraid I cant agree with Mr Ps concerns here. 
my final decision
I understand my findings will be a disappointment to Mr P as from the submissions I can see 
hes heavily invested  in the complaint. However,  for the reasons above my final decision is 
that I dont  uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Ref: DRN15127704Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1512770