K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained to Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax)  about  whole-of-life 
(WoL) assurance  plans  that were sold to them  in 2008.
background
Mr and Mrs M are in their 80s and are represented  by their son.  They  went  into a Halifax 
branch in 2008 to take out life cover to cover the cost of funeral arrangements.  They were 
each sold a reviewable WoL plan, and the first reviews took place after 10 years in 2018.   
Rather than pay higher  premiums to maintain the cover, Mr and Mrs M surrendered the 
plans and took the cash values which had accrued.
Mr and Mrs M have  explained that although they were told how the plans would work, they 
had only intended  to take out simple term assurance  life cover policies.  But they had no 
experience of investments or risk, and so didnt  appreciate the impact of taking WoL plans 
until the reviews were required.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint.  She recommended it should not be 
upheld as she felt the plans were  suitable, and she explained our Service  could not uphold a 
complaint on the basis of poor performance.  In  summary she said that WoL plans are not 
investments and they were set up in line with Mr and Mrs Ms recorded medium  risk profile.
Mr and Mrs Ms son disagreed.  He responded reiterating that they had only wanted simple 
life cover and not anything with an investment or cash-in value.   He also said that his parents 
had no idea how risk or investment funds worked.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to review  everything afresh and 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the adjudicator, and for much the same reasons.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M had wanted life cover to provide for funeral expenses.  A 
WoL plan is a form of life cover, but I understand that the investment element has perhaps 
confused matters, and distracted from its core purpose.  So  I think  its worthwhile to explain 
how the main types of life cover work.
Mr and Mrs M say they had just wanted  a simple life plan.  These  often come in the form of 
term assurance.  That is usually where  a fixed premium is paid each month  for a specified 
term (such  as 10 years), and if a claim is made within that period an agreed  sum is paid out.  
These types of plan are often used to provide cover for a liability or risk that lasts for a 
particular duration.   For example, to protect  a mortgage until it is repaid, or to provide for the 
benefit of children until they reach  an adult age.  These plans can have a number of benefits,  
but essentially at the end of the term the cover comes to an end and nothing is paid out (as 
all premiums have been used up paying  for the cost of cover).
Mr and Mrs M had wanted cover that would pay for funeral expenses in the event of their 
deaths.  In many such situations  a term assurance  would not necessarily be suitable,  as its 
Ref: DRN15121102not possible to know how long cover will be needed  for.  And  if the policy comes to an end, a 
new replacement policy would likely cost considerably more, and have a requirement to be 
underwritten based  on more recent  health  conditions.
A WoL plan is intended to give the insured individuals  the opportunity to maintain cover 
indefinitely until death.  Being subject  to reviews means that the premium cost can increase 
with age, but there is not a requirement to make  new health  declarations or be underwritten 
again.  To try and balance out the fact the cost is likely to increase with age, in the early  
stages the premiums are higher than needed, and the extra  money is invested in a fund that 
is used to subsidise the cost of cover  (and so keeping  premiums lower) in later years.
The cash  funds retained within  the plan are invested to help subsidise the future premiums. 
So a WoL is not an investment product, other  than to the extent the fund exists to try and 
reduce the future cost of premiums.  If a plan is surrendered,  as in Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances, those  retained cash funds which have accumulated  are then paid out.
So considering why Mr and Mrs M had wanted  life cover, Im satisfied a WoL was suitable.  
They didnt know how long cover  may be needed for, and the plans provided an option to 
maintain a sum assured  on an ongoing  basis  subject to scheduled  reviews  and the 
premiums being paid.
I know Mr and Mrs Ms son has also expressed concerns that they were assessed as 
medium risk, but the plan included some higher risk investments.   Hes  correct, but this is 
balanced by the inclusion of lower  risk investments also, and so is suitable  for a medium risk 
profile overall.
I realise Mr and Mrs M are likely to be disappointed with my decision, but I hope  they 
understand why Im unable to uphold the complaint.  Theyve had the benefit  of the policy  for 
10 years  and it gave them  the option to maintain cover going forward   but they chose  not to 
keep it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs and Mrs Ms complaint against  Bank  of Scotland 
plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1512110