K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains about the service she received after placing orders with Express Gifts 
Limited (trading as Studio).
background
Miss C placed a number  of orders with Studio. Shes  unhappy because  some of the orders 
arrived late, some of the items she received were incorrect and some  items were not 
received at all.
Miss C says that when  she contacted Studio it told her that the incorrect items would be 
credited to her account, that the missing items would be re-sent  and that the incorrect  items 
would be collected.
Miss C says that the items werent  collected for several months.  During this time she 
received requests for payment from Studio. She says she didnt pay because  the items she 
had received were  incorrect and were awaiting collection. Studio applied  late payment 
charges and interest to Miss Cs account and reported the late payments on her credit  file.
Miss C is also unhappy  that Studio changed  her account from a cash  account to a credit 
account without  her consent.  She wants her credit  file corrected.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. He said it seemed  more likely than not that 
Miss C (perhaps inadvertently) had selected  an online option to change her account from a 
cash account to a credit account. The investigator reviewed the invoices relating to Miss Cs 
account and found these  to be confusing.  He found  that an item which  should  have been 
refunded hadnt  been  refunded and that reporting  issues meant that one item had been 
credited to the wrong invoice and another item had been re-ordered  with the re-order 
showing on Studios  systems but not on Miss Cs invoice.  The investigator concluded that 
Studio should  refund  £4.99  to Miss Cs account and pay compensation  of £100.
Miss C remained  unhappy. She said that late payment charges and interest had been added 
to her account in respect of the incorrect items  which  it had taken Studio several months to 
collect. She said that although the items have now been collected Studio is still reporting late 
payments on her credit file. She said that Studio should have collected the items in 
December 2017  but didnt  collect them until June 2018 and that if the items had been 
collected promptly there wouldnt have been  any late payments on the account.
Studio also disagreed with the investigators  view. It said that the only discrepancy  on the 
account was the £4.99  item which it agreed  to refund. It said that any reporting issues  (such 
as crediting the incorrect invoice) had not resulted in Miss C being  charged incorrectly  
because the correct items had been credited. Studio didnt feel that it should have to pay any 
compensation. 
In relation to Miss Cs credit file Studio said that when  Miss C opened a credit account in 
December 2017  the balance from her cash account  was transferred over.  Studio said the 
balance on the credit account  represented items over and above  those items which  had 
been collected and that because no payments had been made on the account  the late 
payment had been correctly reported on Miss Cs credit  file.
Ref: DRN10224582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio has agreed  to refund  £4.99  to Miss Cs account in respect of a swim bag which 
should have been credited. This aspect of the complaint appears to be agreed.
In relation to the remaining balance, Studio has said that this remains outstanding. Miss C 
says that shes paid for all items which shes received and she doesnt agree that she has a 
balance on the account.
Its not the role of this service to analyse  each and every transaction on the account.  Studio 
has provided a breakdown of items  which it says Miss C hasnt paid for. Miss C says there 
are items on the breakdown which she reported  as missing and which should have been 
refunded. Miss C also says that Studio has credited an invoice as a missing item by mistake, 
because she received the item and paid for it in December 2017. She says Studio  have  
made an error and should have credited a different invoice in respect of another similar item 
which she didnt receive.
Studio considered Miss Cs comments on the breakdown. It agreed that a further item at 
£12.99 should be credited to the account together with 79 pence in relation to invoice 
858396. In respect  of invoices 847684 and 545916  Studio said that these had not been  
reported as missing by Miss C. In respect of item 4068017 (grey tracksuit  £14.99)  Studio 
said that this had been credited but against the wrong invoice 719241. In respect of item 
3699188 (ADI Entrada £9.99) Studio said this item was dispatched on 10 November 2017 
and had not been reported as missing. 
In relation to Miss Cs re-order of items which she received which  were  incorrect,  Studio said 
that it had no record  of any agreement that these items would be credited to Miss Cs 
account and replaced free of charge.
Having taken all of the information  into account Im satisfied that there are a couple of items 
which werent credited  by Studio when  they should  have  been. Im also satisfied that the way 
in which  some items have  been  reported make  the invoices difficult to understand. I also 
think that Studio acted  unreasonably when  it took several months  to arrange collection of the 
incorrect items from Miss C.
I appreciate that Miss C says shes been  charged  for items which  she says she reported as 
missing and that shes been charged for replacement  items which  she thought  would be 
replaced free of charge.  But on balance  I havent seen enough evidence to be certain that 
Miss C didnt receive these items. And I dont think its likely that Studio  would  have agreed  
to credit incorrect items and provide replacement items free of charge.
There are some minor  adjustments which need  to be made to Miss Cs account.  But Im not 
satisfied that the entire balance on Miss Cs account relates to the items which it took Studio 
several months to collect. It seems  more likely than not that there are other items on the 
account which havent been  paid for. Miss C hasnt persuaded me that these items are 
missing or that she had an agreement with Studio that they wouldnt  be charged. Because of 
this Im satisfied that Studio has correctly reported late payments on Miss Cs credit file.
Ref: DRN10224583my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part. To put things right Express  Gifts Ltd 
should
Refund the sums of £4.99, £12.99 and 79p to Miss Cs account
Pay Miss C compensation  of £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the reporting errors  and the delay in collecting the incorrect items
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1022458