K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Barclays Bank  PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont  refund to him the 
money that he paid for some diamonds.  His complaint is made  against  Barclaycard under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 and hes being helped with it by his daughter. 
background
Mr L used his Barclaycard  to make payments for six diamonds that he bought  in 2014 as an 
investment from a diamond  seller. He also made payments using other  methods. He says 
that he was advised by the diamond seller to list the diamonds for auction but he later 
discovered that the diamond seller had stopped  trading. He had the diamonds valued in 
June 2017 and the valuer said that; the diamonds  were sold at above recommended  retail 
value and therefore were misrepresented. 
Mr L claimed a refund  from Barclaycard under  section 75. He said that hed paid a total of 
£60,151 for the diamonds, plus an auction fee of £3,064, but the valuer valued the diamonds 
at £13,700 - so he claimed £49,515.  He wasnt satisfied with Barclaycards response  so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that the 
diamond seller didnt guarantee that the diamonds would have a specific value and its 
brochure clearly highlighted the risks associated with purchasing diamonds. So she wasnt 
persuaded that there was enough evidence to show that thered been a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by the diamond  seller.
Mr Ls daughter  on his behalf - has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. She says, in summary, that: 
the distinction between different types of diamonds wasnt made clear to her father; 
the type of diamonds that he was sold havent  seen the high rises in value  mentioned 
in the documents;
the brochure says that all fancy diamonds are very rare and very expensive   which 
isnt true;
the diamond seller  used obsessive  telephone pressurized  sales with her father; and
the diamonds were  sold to her father at such a high premium  that there were no 
grounds to assert  that the initial expense could be recouped (never mind a profit  as 
well - and especially not the 35% profit alluded to repeatedly  both by telephone and 
leaflet);
and she has asked for more time to provide further  expert evidence   but hasnt done so. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Ls complaint about Barclaycard, 
I must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
diamond seller and that Barclaycards response  to his claim under section 75 wasnt  fair or 
reasonable. Im not determining the outcome  of Mr Ls claim under section 75 as only a court  
would be able to do that.
Ref: DRN13659422Mr L and his daughter  have provided evidence of the payments  that Mr L made for the 
diamonds in 2014.  But they havent  been  able to provide any invoices  or contracts  to show 
what was agreed by the parties. They have provided  the diamond  sellers marketing 
brochure and other  documents  that it has produced  including  documents  from the diamond 
seller that Mr L signed in 2017. 
The adjudicator included in her recommendation relevant  extracts from the brochure. They  
include that:
the projected future holding period for any diamond purchased is a minimum of five 
to ten years;
the selling price will be dependent on future diamond market  increases;
a buyer  may get back less than they paid for the diamond;
the value of the purchase may go down as well as up and the buyer  may realise less 
than their original purchase;
purchases involve  some degree  of risk so it recommends consulting  with a 
professional before  making any purchase decisions;
it in no way guarantees the successful performance of any asset or the continued  
value of any gem or result of any purchase; and
it makes no representations or warranties of any kind relating  to the value, 
performance or return on purchase.
I can understand Mr Ls (and his daughters) upset and disappointment that the diamonds  
are worth significantly  less than Mr L paid for them. But Barclaycard is only liable for the 
difference in value if theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the diamond  
seller. 
Mr L decided to buy the diamonds  as an investment without seeing them. And he agreed the 
price for the diamonds with the diamond seller.  The diamond sellers brochure  included a 
recommendation that he should consult with a professional before buying the diamonds  
but Ive seen no evidence to show that he did so. And the brochure  included other warnings 
about the investment value of diamonds.
Although the diamonds have now been valued  at less than Mr L paid for them, Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the diamonds were  incorrectly  
described by the diamond seller. The valuer says that the diamonds were  sold at above  
retail value so were misrepresented to Mr L. But Ive not seen  any evidence to show that the 
diamond seller made a representation about the value or price of the diamonds.  And Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the diamond  seller.
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  
Barclaycard to pay any money to Mr L to reimburse  him for the difference  between  the 
amount that he paid for the diamonds  and their current market value. Nor do I find that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require Barclaycard  to pay any compensation to Mr L  
or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Ref: DRN13659423Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1365942