K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained about the decision of Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. (Mapfre) to decline her claim under her travel insurance policy 
when some of her luggage  was lost by an airline.
Ive previously issued  my provisional decision in this case. As I havent received any further  
information from either Mrs A or Mapfre in response to it, Im going to confirm my decision.
background
Mrs As luggage was lost by her airline in January 2017 when she and her family returned  to 
the UK from an extended trip abroad. The family had eight items  of checked baggage. She 
says that the bag that was lost contained various  items of clothing,  makeup  and toiletries. 
She made a claim against the airline  and received $400 compensation. This was calculated  
by reference to the weight  of the bag, not the value of its contents.
Mrs A also submitted a claim  to Mapfre for £9,843 for the loss of the bag and its contents. 
When Mr and Mrs A signed the claim form, they declared that they hadnt made a claim 
against their airline.
By September 2017  Mapfre still hadnt  settled her claim. It explained that it had concerns  
about her claim and wanted  to interview her. Mrs A complained to this service  about the 
delay. Our investigator  who looked into this separate complaint  considered that Mapfre had 
taken an unreasonably long time to deal with her claim and requested that it pay her 
compensation of £175 and that it make a decision on her claim within  two weeks  of 
interviewing her.
Mapfre asked Mrs A for evidence of the items shed lost and for further information to 
support her claim such  as receipts, bank statements and evidence of cash  withdrawals, as 
many of the items claimed for were paid for in cash. Mrs A provided copies of receipts for 
some items that had been purchased in the UK and some  receipts  for items  that had been 
purchased abroad. She also provided  letters from some family  members confirming that they 
had gifted her a number  of the items that she says were  in the lost bag. She also said that 
some of the items in the lost bag were gifts from friends or family abroad.  
Mapfre has doubts as to the accuracy  of information provided by Mrs A in support of her 
claim. It believes  theres evidence to support  the view that her claim has been exaggerated.
For example, many  of the items claimed  for are not evidenced by either receipts  or bank 
statements; it noted that the compensation  paid by the airline,  which was based  on the 
weight of her lost bag, doesnt correspond with the weight  of the bag as given by Mrs A, and 
said that if the bag had weighed what Mrs A said it did, the compensation wouldve been  
greater under the Montreal Convention;   Mrs A has sent photographs  of receipts rather than 
originals; on the small number of receipts provided,  the items claimed do not always  match  
the receipts; a large number of different bank  cards were used for some  purchases but no 
evidence of the cards, their owners, or the purchases they were used for has been provided; 
Mr and Mrs A took £2,000  on the trip but spent  considerably more  than this just on clothes 
and gifts. 
Mapfre eventually declined Mrs As claim.  It stated  that it wasnt confident in the accuracy of 
the information shed provided in support of it, and its concern over the payment issued by 
the airline raised the prospect that her claim had been exaggerated.
Ref: DRN16915972Mrs A wasnt  happy with this response  and brought a further complaint to this service. Our 
investigator asked Mapfre  for all additional information that related to what had happened 
since the original  claim  had been  made.  Mapfre didnt provide any further information so our 
investigator based his view on the information  provided at the time of the original complaint.
Our investigators view was that Mapfre should  pay Mrs A the cost of items that she could 
evidence by way of receipts, or as gifts supported by letters confirming these  gifts.  He also 
recommended that Mapfre pay Mrs A £150  as compensation for the delay that Mrs A had 
had in being reimbursed for her missing items.
Mapfre doesnt accept  the investigators  view, so the matters been  passed to me to make a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mrs As claim for 
the following  reasons.
1.Ive looked  at the claim  form that Mrs A submitted to Mapfre.  This was signed on 23 
February 2017 by both Mr and Mrs A. On that form, Mr and Mrs A were asked to 
state whether  or not they had made a claim against any other insurer or their airline. 
The box for Yes was deleted, leaving the box stating  No.
Mr and Mrs A had in fact made a claim against their airline on 12 February 2017 and 
on 20 February, before they made a claim against Mapfre, had received  a settlement 
offer of $400 from the airline.
I believe that Mr and Mrs A had therefore made  a statement  to Mapfre that was false.
2.Mrs As claim against Mapfre was for £9,843. She provided  a very detailed  schedule 
of what she alleged  had been lost. The items claimed for, and the amount claimed,  
can be summarized as being:
Suitcase £   159
Clothing, shoes  & gifts £4,740
Electrical items £   985
Toiletries/make up £ 2,471  
£ 8,355
The amount  claimed  by Mrs A therefore appears to exceed the cost of the items 
claimed for by some £1,488. 
3.Turning to some specific items  claimed for, Mrs A provided receipts from a shop 
abroad. Receipt  number 2485,  dated 8 January 2017, was for Rupees 66,480. 
Receipt number 2486, dated  10 January 2017, was for Rupees 105,000. Total  
Rupees171,480.
Mr A has confirmed  that these receipts  related to items listed  4 and 5 on Mrs As 
claim form. The location of purchase  and the purchase dates also match.
Ref: DRN16915973Ive checked the historical exchange rates.
On 8 January  2017, the items costing R66,480 cost £516 using the exchange  rate on 
that date.
On 10 January 2017, the items costing R105,000 cost £823, using the exchange rate 
on that date.
Mrs A has claimed £1,400  for these  items.  The actual cost of these items on the 
dates they were purchased was £1,340. If the exchange rate on the date the claim 
form was signed  is used, the cost would be £1,304.
It therefore appears that Mrs A has somewhat overstated the cost of these items.
4.The amount  claimed for lost perfume and makeup alone amounts to nearly £2,500. 
Apart from a few items,  the items claimed  for are what can be described  as 
consumable items, for example creams and lipsticks. With minimal exceptions, 
these are said to have been purchased  or gifted in 2014, 2015, or January 2016. I 
think its reasonable to assume  that they will have been  well used before Mrs A left 
on her trip in November  2017.  I therefore dont  think its reasonable to claim for their 
full replacement value.  Mrs As policy in any event provides for a reduction  for wear, 
tear and depreciation, so it doesnt provide new for old cover.
5.Only six of the 78 or so items claimed  for were purchased with a card. All the others  
were paid for in cash or were said to be gifts. Mrs A has hasnt been able to provide 
receipts for items  purchased for cash other than the items purchased  abroad  referred  
to above. Many  of the items purchased  for cash were purchased  in 2014 and 2015, 
yet Mrs A can remember what she paid for them without the benefit  of receipts.  I 
dont find this credible.  If shed  checked prices online, this wouldnt show  historical  
prices.
6.Mapfre is concerned that Mrs A has variously said that her bag weighed  29-30 kg 
and 32-33kg when the airline  didnt provide compensation  that would equate to that 
weight, lending strength to its suspicion  that the contents of the bag have been  
overstated.
Although I accept that Mrs A lost a bag containing  a number of items, she received 
compensation from her airline. I share Mapfres concern about  the accuracy of her claim 
form and the evidence that shes provided  to support her claim against  it.
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  consider  that Mrs A hasnt been able to provide 
adequate or accurate evidence of her loss. I think that Mapfre  has reasonable grounds to 
believe that her claim has not been  substantiated.  Her policy  states:
You must comply  with the following conditions to have the full protection  of Your policy.
3. Fraud
You must not act in a fraudulent manner.
If You or anyone  acting  for You:
a) Make a claim  under  the policy knowing the claim to be false or fraudulently
Ref: DRN16915974exaggerated in any respect or
b) Make a statement in support of a claim knowing the statement to be false  in any
respect or
c) Submit  a document in support of a claim knowing the document to be forged or
false in any respect or
d) Make a claim  in respect of any loss or damage  caused by Your wilful act or with
Your connivance
Then
a) We shall not pay the claim
b) We may recover from You any sums  paid to You in respect  of the claim
c) We may treat the contract as having  been terminated with effect from the time of
the fraudulent  act.
If We treat the contract as having  been terminated
a) We may refuse all liability to You under the contract in respect  of a relevant event
occurring after the time of the fraudulent act, and
b) We may not return any of the premiums paid under the contract
As I believe there to be reasonable doubts as to the cogency of what  evidence has been 
provided in support of Mrs As claim, and as Mrs A appears to have provided inaccurate 
information on her claim form,  I dont believe that Mapfre is acting unreasonably in declining 
her claim. Under her policy, it isnt required to pay any claim in such circumstances. Im 
therefore not going to require it to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not going to ask Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania  
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.    
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1691597