K822xcomplaint
Mrs L is unhappy that a home insurance policy in her name was changed by esure Insurance 
Limited to her husbands name and payments for a claim  were  sent to him rather  than to her.
background 
Mr and Mrs L are separated. Mr L lives in the former  matrimonial home.  The home insurance policy  
was in Mrs Ls sole name. She made  a claim to esure after a fire in a neighbours property  
damaged their property.
Mrs L told esure her husband  was authorised  to handle the claim on her behalf. In the course of 
the claim Mr L told esure to change  the policy into his name. It did that and paid him for part 
settlement of the contents claim.
When Mrs L found out, she complained to esure that it shouldnt  have changed  the policy into Mr 
Ls name  without her permission. It apologised and put the policy back  into her name. It checked 
with Mrs L before settling  the claim for damage  to the buildings. She agreed that it could  send the 
settlement for that part of the claim to Mr L.
esure also offered  Mrs L £100 compensation.
Mrs L wasnt satisfied with that. So she brought her complaint  to this service.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold her complaint. An extract 
from my provisional decision is set out below:
Policyholders often  authorise  insurers to deal with other people  on their behalf  in connection with 
a claim,  such as another family member who might be more experienced in such matters. But that 
doesnt mean theyve  given  up all their rights under the policy  and dont want to receive the claim  
settlement.
Ive listened to the calls Mrs L made at a very early stage in the claim. She explained that she and 
Mr L were going through a divorce and that he was still living  in the property but she wasnt.  She 
authorised esure to speak to Mr L about the claim but said she wanted to be kept updated.
I think it should have  been clear to esure  from this call that Mr and Mrs Ls relationship had broken 
down and that Mrs L felt she had an interest  in the policy. It wasnt  being authorised  to change the 
policy into Mr Ls name and make payments to him instead of Mrs L. At the very least  it should 
have checked  with Mrs L first before taking such a step.
I agree  that it wouldnt have been fair for the whole of the settlement for contents  to have been paid 
to Mrs L  its a reasonable assumption  that, apart from specific  items such  as Mr Ls clothing,  the 
contents were jointly owned.  So the principle put forward by our investigator  that esure should pay 
Mrs L half the contents settlement after deducting the sum allowed for Mr Ls clothes seems fair to 
me.
Unfortunately our investigator made  a mistake in his calculation.  He included  in his calculation  the 
building repairs settlement and the amount allowed  for Mr L to stay elsewhere. I think it was 
appropriate for those  amounts to be paid to Mr L. He was the one whod had to stay elsewhere as 
Ref: DRN14444102a result of the claim  Mrs L had already moved out. As for the buildings  settlement, Mrs L agreed 
that esure could pay that to Mr L.
The amount  paid by esure  for contents was £4,474.75 (being payments of £3,820.75 and £654). 
The amount  allowed for Mr Ls clothes was £1,150.  That leaves a net settlement of £3,324.75. So I 
think esure should pay Mrs L £1,662.37 plus interest  at the rate recommended by our investigator. 
Mrs L should be aware that esure  may seek to recover this sum from Mr L.
Mrs L suffered a degree of trouble and inconvenience by the fact that esure changed the policy  into 
Mr Ls name without her permission. I think the £100  paid by esure  to compensate  her for this was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
responses to my provisional  decision
esure said it accepted  my provisional decision. Mrs L said esure  had offered her £100 but she 
hadnt accepted it. She said she was happy  with my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional  decision that esure should pay Mrs L £1,662.37 plus 
interest, being half the contents settlement after deducting the sum allowed for Mr Ls clothes, I see 
no reason to change  it.
If Mrs L now wishes to accept esures offer of £100 compensation, she should contact esure  
regarding that.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint and require esure  Insurance  Limited to pay Mrs L £1,662.37 plus interest at 
the rate of 8 per cent simple  a year from the dates the payments would have been made to Mrs L 
up to the date of actual  payment.
If esure  Insurance Limited thinks  its required to take off income tax from the interest it pays  Mrs L, 
it should give her a tax certificate  so that she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or reject 
my decision  before 24 February 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1444410