K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr A says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr A applied for the credit card and was sold the PPI by post. BoS has shown us a copy of 
the application form and I can see a box has been ticked to add PPI to the account.  I cant  
see anything on the application form that suggests the box had to be ticked, so Mr A 
couldve left it blank  and not applied for PPI. Overall  I think  BoS made it clear that Mr A didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this after so many  years.
Mr A used a postal application form to apply for the credit card. And hes told us he cant  
recall any verbal contact with BoS.  So I dont think BoS recommended  the PPI. So it didnt 
have to check if it was right for Mr A. But it did have to make sure Mr A got the information 
he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr A about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything    
Mr A paid for it. But BoS has paid Mr A back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  it 
needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1167026