K821x#15complaint
Miss T says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her as it 
ought to have seen that she had previously had problems managing debt.
background
This complaint is about five High-Cost  Short-Term Credit instalment loans Mr Lender 
provided to Miss T between November 2017 and July 2018. Miss Ts lending history  is as 
follows:
Loan 1 taken in November 2017 for £200.
Loan 2 taken in April 2018  for £300.
Loan 3 taken in May 2018  for £750. 
Loan 4 taken in June  2018 for £400.
Loan 5 taken in July 2018 for £400. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ts complaint and thought  the loans from loan three onwards 
shouldnt have been provided. Mr Lender  disagreed  and the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN19917962I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
And, in my view, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to do so without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint.
I think that a proportionate  check for loans three and four, which given the circumstances will 
have required Mr Lender to get to the crux of why Miss T had required this many loans in 
this period of time, would more than likely  not have shown that Miss T was gambling a 
significant proportion  of her income. In my view, Mr Lender being  aware  of this, as I think it 
ought fairly and reasonably to have  been,  shouldve alerted it to the fact that Miss T was 
unlikely to have  been able to repay  these loans  without undue difficulty, or having  to borrow  
further.    
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Miss T, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. Given the particular circumstances  of    
Miss Ts case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan five. 
I say this because  by this stage  Miss T was approaching for a fifth loan in a nine month 
period. And she was being expected to make payments  for a further six months.  Mr Lender 
says that our adjudicator failed to take into account that loans  four and five were  for lower 
amounts than loan three. But this is only because loan three was for so much more.  And    
Mr Lender also appears to be ignoring  the fact that loans four and five were  for significantly 
more than what Miss T was first lent in November 2017. So I dont think that loans four and 
five being for lower  amounts  is indicative  of Miss Ts financial position  improving.  
Ive thought about Mr Lenders points regarding the Financial Ombudsman Services  
obligations under  DISP  3.6.1R and DISP 3.6.4R.  Id like to assure Mr Lender  that Im fully 
aware of these rules. And Im satisfied  that our adjudicator explained why she thought it was 
unfair for Mr Lender to have provided loans three  to five. So I think  that Mr Lender ought 
reasonably to have  understood why she partially  upheld Miss Ts complaint.
But for the avoidance of doubt and in in the spirit  of aiding Mr Lenders  understanding  of my 
decision (and Mr Lender  learning from it) I want to be clear in stating that Im partially 
upholding Miss Ts complaint because:
proportionate checks for loans three  and four would have shown the amount of     
Miss Ts income  going towards  gambling.  And this ought  fairly and reasonably to 
Ref: DRN19917963have shown Mr Lender it was irresponsible to provide these loans bearing in mind   
Mr T was more  likely  than not unable to sustainably repay them;  and
by the time of loan five, the pattern of lending itself ought fairly and reasonably to 
have alerted Mr Lender that any further lending  was simply  unsustainable for Miss T. 
Miss T lost out because  she paid interest and charges on loans that she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So I think that Mr Lender should  put things right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss T paid on loans three to five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans three and four from Miss Ts credit file;
the number  of loans taken in the circumstances they were, by the time of loan five, 
means any information recorded about loan five is adverse.  So all entries about loan 
five should be removed from Miss Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ts complaint. PDL Finance  
Limited should pay Miss T compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1991796