K821x#15complaint
Miss S says Elevate Credit International  Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about ten loans  Sunny provided  to Miss S between 2014 and 2016.  
Miss Ss borrowing history is as follows:
* At times, Miss S had more than one loan outstanding  this is the total of the highest loan 
repayment, plus any previous loans which had not been  repaid. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ss complaint and thought the loans from loan seven 
onwards shouldnt have been  given as by the time it was clear that Miss S has become 
persistently reliant  on short term loans.  
Sunny initially disagreed,  but then made a different offer, but as Miss S didnt respond, the 
complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN11827532I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ss case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan seven. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Miss S was not managing to repay their 
loans sustainably. Miss S had taken out six loans  within  seven months and Miss S 
had been indebted  to Sunny for the entire time. So Sunny ought to have realised it 
was more likely than not Miss S was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying her previous  loan was leaving in her finances and that Miss Ss 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Miss Ss first loan was for £500  and loan seven  was also for £500.  At this point 
Sunny ought to have known that Miss S was not likely  borrowing  to meet  a temporary 
shortfall in their income but to meet  an ongoing need. 
Miss S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  she owed Sunny. Loan ten was 
taken out around 15 months after Miss Ss first, and although it was for a smaller 
amount, it wasnt significantly so. So, Miss S had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Sunny  over an extended  period.
I think that Miss S lost out because  Sunny  continued  to provide borrowing from loan seven 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ss indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Miss S borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Miss Ss ability to access  mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
Ref: DRN11827533Ive thought about everything that Sunny  has said in response to our adjudicators  view  
including what it said about  there  being  significant gaps in the lending relationship. It also 
questioned why the first adjudicator upheld Miss Ss complaint from loan six, but this was 
changed when  looked at by a different adjudicator.
Firstly, I dont consider the gaps  in the lending  relationship to be long enough for Sunny to 
have reasonably believed that there  had been  an improvement in Miss Ss financial  situation 
to be improved. And, up until loan six, the amount Miss S was borrowing had reduced, so I 
dont think that Sunny should have necessarily  been  concerned at this point  but Miss S 
then applied for loan seven which was taken out the day after loan 6 was repaid  and this 
was for a significantly larger amount. I think that at this point  Sunny shouldve  realised there  
was likely to be an issue. 
So, Im also partially upholding the complaint about  loans  seven  to ten and Sunny should  put 
things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss S paid on loans seven to ten;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan seven onwards means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So, all entries  about  loans  seven to ten should  be removed 
from Miss Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Miss S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ss complaint.  Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2020.  
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1182753