K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that an early repayment charge (ERC) made  by their lifetime 
mortgagee Aviva Equity Release UK Limited  is excessive.
To resolve  their complaint  they want Aviva to repay  the ERC.
background
On 17 November 2003 Mr and Mrs C took a lifetime  mortgage with Aviva. On 
16 October 2018 they repaid it. The redemption  statement included  an ERC of £36,862.80. 
In their complaint  form they say:
The penalty equated to 97% of the original loan. We do not believe that the size of the 
penalty was communicated or the process  in which it would  apply (linked to treasury  gilts). 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She said the illustration provided  
at the time clearly  showed  how the ERC  worked and how much  could be owed at certain 
points.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. They  said that 
at no point prior to signing up were  the size and magnitude of the ERC explained.
They appreciated that the product was for a lifetime, however if as expected  they lived for 
another 15 years then Aviva would have pocketed the property for what originally was a loan 
equating to 15% of its value. This was stealing in any other language.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs stealing point is I think a reference to what  Aviva would take on their death 
in 15 years. But thats a different point from the ERC payable if the loan is repaid early. 
From Mr and Mrs Cs reference to treasury gilts I believe their complaint is actually that in 
addition to the size of the ERC, they werent  told the process of calculating the amount of it, 
rather than the process  of applying it, which was simply to include it in the redemption 
statement. So I will deal with communication of the size of the ERC and the method  of 
calculating it, which I think are the points which Mr and Mrs C wish to raise.
Mr and Mrs C say in their complaint form that the purpose of the ERC is to protect  the 
lender. And I think thats right. If borrowers  redeem  their mortgage  early this interferes with 
the lenders calculations of how much  it will cost to fund and how much revenue  the lender 
can expect to receive. The lender has to reinvest  the money repaid. When it does this, it may 
receive the same amount  of money as it had expected, or it may receive a different amount. 
If it receives less money, it will make an ERC to compensate for the loss.
There are two types of ERC used with equity  release mortgages. These are a fixed charge 
calculated as a percentage of the amount  repaid, or a floating charge calculated  by 
reference to a redemption yield on gilts as a guide to decide whether  the lender will receive 
Ref: DRN14011642more or less money  than it had expected. The fixed percentage guarantees that an ERC will 
be payable in any circumstances  whereas  the possibility exists  with the yield linked ERC  for 
nothing to be payable,  depending on movements in the yield.  
If the redemption  yield published on the repayment date is the same as or higher  than the 
redemption yield on the completion date, there would be no ERC. If the redemption yield 
published on the repayment  date is lower than the redemption  yield on the completion  date,  
the difference would  be used to calculate the ERC as shown in the table at the end of the 
mortgage deed.
The loan agreement  explains in paragraph 8 that each loan is linked to a particular  gilt: the 
gilt to which Mr and Mrs Cs loan is linked  is called 4.25% Treasury  2036. The redemption  
yield is published daily in the Financial Times.
Calculating  ERCs  by reference  to a gilts yield is common in the industry  with this type of 
mortgage. Mortgage lenders borrow the money  they lend to consumers  and have to pay 
costs to their lenders  to do so, just as a consumer does. The lender will have to pay the 
costs of borrowing  the money irrespective of whether the consumer it subsequently lent the 
money to still has their mortgage or not. So if a mortgage is paid off early, the lender can 
suffer a loss on that money because it has to continue to pay the cost of borrowing that 
money, but no interest is accruing  on an outstanding debt. 
Lenders use the redemption yield on gilts to calculate whether they will suffer  a loss on the 
borrowed money on early repayment of a mortgage. This assessment includes whether the 
lender will have the ability to reinvest/relend the money repaid by comparing the gilt 
redemption yield on the date of the loan advance with the yield on the date of early 
repayment. If the redemption yield on the repayment  date is lower,  lenders use the 
difference to calculate an ERC.
That still leaves the question whether this was explained to Mr and Mrs C. They  consulted  a 
solicitor who certified on 26 August 2003 that he had explained the terms and effects of the 
plan to Mr and Mrs C. In addition the 2003 illustration contains examples of the ERCs  which  
Aviva might take if the gilt yields had fallen. And paragraph 8 of the loan agreement contains 
a comprehensive  explanation of the effects of early repayment. It says:
8.8 We use the redemption yield on gilts as our guide to decide whether we will receive 
more or less money  than we had expected. We believe  this is fair, because it is an 
independent guide: we do not decide whether the redemption yield rises or falls.
8.9 Each loan is linked to particular gilt: the gilt to which your loan is linked is called 4.25% 
Treasury 2036. We will tell you the redemption yield for this gilt on the completion date.
8.10 The redemption yield is published daily in the Financial Times. At any time during the 
loan term, you can see the redemption yield for the 4.25% Treasury 2036  gilt either by 
asking us or by reference to the Financial Times or by asking  your financial adviser.
8.11 We compare the redemption yield published  on the completion  date with the 
redemption yield published on the repayment  date.  A rise in the redemption yield could  result  
in our receiving more money,  but a fall could result in our receiving less.
8.12 If the redemption yield published  on the repayment date is the same  as or higher than 
the redemption  yield on the completion date, there would  be no ERC.
Ref: DRN140116438.13 If the redemption yield published  on the repayment date is lower than the redemption 
yield on the completion date, the difference would be used to calculate any ERC as shown in 
the table at the end of this agreement.
I havent seen  anything in this case to indicate  that Aviva has made an error in calculating 
the ERC  or that it was inappropriate for it to be applied.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1401164