K820x#14complaint
Mr A (on behalf of Company B) complains  that 2direct Ltd mishandled  his request for 
litigation funding and misled him into paying  £5,000.
Annecto Legal Ltd (Annecto) are appointed representatives of 2direct  Ltd, whom  I will refer 
to throughout  this decision. 
background
Mr As company sought to pursue a legal claim against a third-party company, so he 
approached Annecto in May 2018  to assist him in securing funding for the litigation. Annecto 
explained the steps that would be required for any funder to consider underwriting his case 
and offered to make  an introduction to a lawyer. They  also said that he would first need  to 
instruct a barrister or solicitor to provide an opinion on the chances  of his claim succeeding.
Mr A got back in contact  with Annecto on 17 July 2018 after obtaining a favourable legal 
opinion from a barrister. Annectos representative  (M)  subsequently  effected an 
introduction to a firm of solicitors (Firm T) that specialises in commercial  disputes. 
However, Firm T did not consider the legal opinion Mr A had obtained to have been of any 
use in demonstrating  the substance of his legal  claim. So the solicitors  said they would need 
to go through  the underlying papers  to form their own view. However, the opinion did set out 
that the limitation period  of the claim was set to expire on 13 August 2018, meaning  that 
swift action was required if the claim was to be pursued.
A meeting was subsequently arranged  on 24 July 2018 that was attended by M, Firm T and 
Mr A to discuss  the claim and consider next steps. Firm T advised that there were two 
potential courses of action  Mr A could take to prevent his claim from being time-barred:
Option one: Issue a claim in court, which would attract  a £10,000 court  fee; or
Option two: Instruct solicitors to send  a formal letter before  claim and request that the third-
party company enter  into a standstill agreement.
As it didnt  appear  that Mr A had access to £10,000,  and because  third-party  funding  was 
unlikely to be obtained in time to cover the court fee, Firm T suggested that Mr A proceed  
with option two. They said their usual fee for this would be within the region of £10,000  to 
£30,000, but they offered  to do it for Mr A at a significant discount of £5,000  plus VAT if he 
decided to proceed down this route. However,  they did say there was no guarantee that 
BDO would agree to the standstill agreement.  
Mr A asked Annecto whether  it would be able to find funding  for the court  fee if option two 
was unsuccessful. Annecto told him that it should be possible, but that it can take time to 
secure this. Mr A agreed to proceed  with option  two and paid the £5,000 fee on 
27 July 2018.  In the meantime, Annecto asked Firm T to put a budget together for litigation,  
which they provided on 7 August 2018.  
The third-party company  responded  on 9 August  2018 and refused to sign the standstill 
agreement, meaning  the only option  remaining was to pay the court fee of £10,000 within  the 
few days remaining before the limitation  expiry on 13 August 2018.
Firm T contacted  Annecto to to confirm whether they had been able to source  any funding.  
Annecto explained that they had not been  successful in their attempts, and based on the 
Ref: DRN19156812third-party companys  response, they didnt think they would be able to without further  work  
being done on the claim. And given that the claims limitation period was aproaching in a few 
days, Annecto said there was not enough  time to secure funding.
Mr A complained that Annecto  had misled him and advised him pay the £5,000  fee on false  
pretences. In summary, he submits:
He was subjected  to intense pressure  by M to pursue option  two and pay the £5,000 
fee, despite M knowing that the third-party company were unlikely to sign the 
standstill agreement. 
M was very insistent  during the talks and even  discussed  the possibility of Annecto 
contributing £1,000  to the £5,000  fee for option two. Mr A says he was suspicious of 
Ms enthusiasm to want to help him, and has questioned whether there was any 
potential conflict of interest by way of him earning  commission for placing business  
with Firm T. He says he wasnt offered a choice  of firms and that Annecto just went  
straight to Firm T.
M knew  there were  only 20 days left of the claims  limitation period, which was a lot 
less that the six to eight weeks he said he would need to source  funding. So he 
shouldnt have  agreed with Firm T to go with option two with such little time left when 
he knew the third-party company would reject the proposal. 
He considers that Annecto  dishonestly told him to choose this option for financial 
gain. He should have been  advised to choose  option one as he could have  borrowed 
money to pay the £10,000 court fee.
He only took Annectos advice on the understanding that they would obtain funding, 
and M didnt say he would need  six to eight weeks during the meeting on 
24 July 2018 in which to arrange  it. M also misled Mr A into believing that he was 
close to securing funding, only to eventually fail to find any. M also lied when he said 
that the third-party companys response  was the reason he failed to find the funding.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. She wasnt able to conclude that Annecto 
had misled Mr A, as she thought it was ultimately  up to him to decide how to proceed with 
his claim.  Mr A disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Annecto Legal is a broker for funding  and insurance  that assists its customers  with securing 
commercial litigation funding and after-the-event  insurance policies.  With regards to 
litigation funding,  they typically arrange this in return for a percentage of any damages 
recovered upon the successful conclusion of a case.
Mr A submits that M from Annecto subjected him to intense pressure and was insistent that 
he find the £5,000 for Firm Ts fee. He says that M kept repeating  if he were me, he would 
find the £5,000 for a prize  of £600,000 . He says he was persuaded to part with his money  
as a result  of the forceful  pleading and arguments put forwards  by Annecto. 
In order to conclude  that Annecto had acted inappropriately in this regard, there would need 
to be strong  enough  evidence  to suggest  that they said or did something which made Mr A 
Ref: DRN19156813feel like he had little choice other than to agree to part with his money in order  to obtain their 
services. And having reviewed the evidence available, Im not persuaded this was the case.
First, Annecto wasnt offering their services in return for Mr A paying Firm Ts fee of £5,000.  
They had already said they were  going  to attempt  to source funding,  so theres  nothing  to 
suggest that Annecto wouldnt have continued to assist him if he didnt  choose  option one 
and pay Firm Ts fee of £5,000.
I appreciate Mr A feels he was unduly pressured  by M in to parting with his money. And 
having seen the emails,  I can see that M emailed  Mr A on 24 July 2018 and said:
I think  the ball is very much in your court now  if I were  in your shoes I would 
somehow find the money to do this given  the potential returns .
On 25 July 2018 Mr A asked about  the potential for securing funding if option  two did not 
work out and court  action  was required, to which Annecto responded:
If I was in your shoes  and my choice was to either  spend £5,000 and pursue my £600,000,  
or not spend £5,000  and write off the £600,000 then I think I would somehow find the £5,000  
to keep my case alive.
I acknowledge that this expresses a clear preference on the part of M as to what he would 
do if he was in Mr As position, and that this may have been enough to persuade him to 
pursue this course of action. But I dont accept  that the offering of Ms opinion  here can fairly 
be categorised as intense or inappropriate pressure  even in the context of his time 
sensitive claim. 
I also considered Mr As testimony  surrounding  what he was told by M after the meeting on 
24 July 2018.  But again, Im not persuaded this would amount to inappropriate pressure. It 
doesnt appear, for example, that M would not take no for an answer, or that he kept on 
handling his objections until he agreed to proceed  with option two. And Mr A was also told 
twice on two occasions on 24 and 25 July 2018  that the ball was in his court to decide  what 
to do. So, for the reasons  outlined above   and given that the discussion took place over a 
couple of days   Im not persuaded he was inappropriately pressured by Annecto, as he was 
seemingly given enough time and space to weigh up his options on how to proceed.
Mr A has questioned why Annecto  went straight  to Firm T, as he suspects they had a 
financial arrangement  in place with Firm T (such as commission for placing business) that 
could give rise to a potential  conflict  of interest.  Our investigator looked into this, and 
Annecto confirmed  that there  was no commission arrangement in place between the parties. 
In terms of why Annecto suggested  Firm T, I can see that they are a firm that specialises in 
commercial disputes, and that they had also acted against  the third-party company in 
separate litigation. So I dont think Annecto can be said to have acted inappropriately when 
they suggested that Mr A instruct Firm T.
Mr A further submits  that Annecto misled him into choosing  option  two, and that he should  
have been advised to pursue option one instead  as he could have borrowed money to pay 
the £10,000 court fee. But having  reviewed the evidence,  it appears to have been Firm T, 
that has provided this advice, rather than Annecto.
It was Firm T, for example, who outlined the strategy and potential  options  available  to Mr A 
to protect  his claim given  the time constrains.  In their email of 24 July 2018, they said:
Ref: DRN19156814I understand that [Mr A] does not have access to £10,000 and that in the time available the 
third-party funding for this is unlikely to be obtained. In those  circumstances, I suggest  that 
[Mr A] instruct solicitors  to send a letter before claim and request [the third-party  company] to 
enter into a standstill agreement.
In the same  email, Firm T also stated that that they thought there were cogent reasons why, 
acting reasonably, the [third-party company] should  enter a standstill but that there  is no 
guarantee [they] would  agree to this. This email  was forwarded on to Mr A on the same  day 
by Annecto,  where he was told that the ball is very much in your court  now.  In later emails, 
Firm T also expressed that there  was significant risk attached to option one.
So it appears that Annecto were only acting  as an intermediary between  Mr A and Firm T 
and, as such, cannot be held responsible  for the advice or actions of the solicitors.  So I cant 
accept that Mr A has been misled or misadvised by Annecto  in that regard, as I cannot see 
that they have  provided any regulated advice that they could be held responsible for in 
these circumstances.  And given that Firm T falls under the remit of a different regulator,  this 
service is not able to consider the advice that was provided. 
Mr A also says he only pursued option two on the understanding  that Annecto would obtain  
funding, and that they had not made  it clear  from the outset that it could take six to eight 
weeks to arrange  it. I appreciate this may not have been made explicitly  clear  to Mr A in the 
initial meeting  held between the parties.  But I can see that M sent an email to Mr A the next 
day on 25 July 2018 explaining that It should be possible to fund the claim  once the LBA is 
produced and [the third-party company] respond, but funding  is going to take weeks
I appreciate that Mr A may have  been  encouraged by Ms reassurance that it should be 
possible to source the necessary funding. But I can see from a subsequent  email of 
26 July 2018 that M explained the intention was to first protect the claim and then once this 
is achieved we have  the time to arrange funding and insurance (which can take around  8 
weeks to finalise).
So I dont  think it was ever promised to Mr A that funding would be secured before the 
limitation period  if option two failed, and I think M made it clear  that the priority was to firstly 
protect the claim which, if achieved, could  then leave enough time to secure the necessary 
funding. However,  following this email,  Mr A instructed Firm T to proceed with option two in 
any case. 
Mr A has also complained that Annecto misled him into believing  that they were close  to 
securing funding, only to eventually fail to find any. I understand this would have been 
disappointing to Mr A. But securing the necessary funding was never  something  that was 
guaranteed. And I cannot see that Annecto ever made such a promise to Mr A in the first 
place, or that there was any contract in place to this effect obliging  them to do so. So even  if 
they did fail to eventually secure funding,  this isnt something I can reasonably ask them to 
compensate Mr A for, as it was never guaranteed from the outset. And I also cant  ignore 
that there  may have been more time for Annecto to secure the funding if Mr A hadnt left it so 
close to the limitation  period to make  enquiries  about commencing legal action  against  the 
third-party company.  
I appreciate Mr A has been left frustrated and feels he should  have  his money reimbursed. 
But this is not money  that has been paid to Annecto, or is theirs to refund. It has been paid to 
Firm T for services which he agreed to and which were duly rendered. So if Mr A is now 
Ref: DRN19156815unhappy with those services or the advice  he was given, he should  direct his concerns  to the 
solicitors that provided the advice. And having considered holistically  the conduct, 
obligations and responsibilities of Annecto as the intermediary, on balance Im not 
persuaded they have done anything substantially  wrong that would warrant  compensation in 
the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1915681