K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC is unreasonably refusing her access to money 
in her account. 
Lloyds has asked Mrs P to provide certain  information,  but Mrs P thinks Lloyds  request  is 
unreasonable. 
background
A large  sum of money was paid into Mrs Ps account. Lloyds told Mrs P it wanted to confirm 
her entitlement to the money. Mrs P said the money  came from the sale of her car. She 
produced a handwritten receipt  giving  details of the transaction. Lloyds said this wasnt 
enough. It asked  Mrs P to give the bank the car registration number. Mrs P hasnt done so. 
She says the bank  is asking unreasonable questions.
The bank has closed  Mrs Ps account and at present retains the money.  It paid her £50 for 
failing to inform  Mrs P of the closure  by letter. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She concluded the bank wasnt  acting 
unreasonably and could legitimately ask the questions it was asking.
Mrs P didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She sent in a copy  of a letter referring to a 
loan the buyer of the car took out shortly before his purchase. She said this proved the 
source of the money. 
The investigator asked  the bank if this was enough for its purposes. The bank said no, the 
central question was Mrs Ps entitlement to the funds. The car was the main issue  and the 
matter couldnt  proceed  any further until the bank understood the transaction  fully. The bank 
repeated its request for the car registration number, which  would permit  the bank to establish 
Mrs Ps prior ownership of the car and the buyers new ownership.  
The investigator told Mrs P she continued  to think  the bank was acting reasonably. Mrs P 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint. She said shed provided 
more than enough information  to show where the money had come  from. She said she didnt 
have the car registration now; it was an EU car which  was going to be taken abroad anyway. 
This was just a con by the bank to keep hold of peoples money.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P but I too 
havent upheld  her complaint.
Banks including Lloyds have a regulatory  responsibility, where circumstances  require it, to 
check on their customers  entitlement  to money  in their accounts. Precisely how they do this 
in a particular  case will depend  on the circumstances, but the ombudsman  service wont  
normally interfere in the process unless the bank appears to be acting unreasonably. 
I dont think the bank has acted unreasonably  in this case. Mrs P says the bank wants to ask 
100 questions. But the bank is presently  only asking  for the answer to one question  the car 
Ref: DRN18879392registration number   which is a question Mrs P should be able to answer  with ease and 
without any fear that the answer could cause her difficulties. 
It is of course Mrs Ps choice  as to whether she provides the information the bank 
reasonably requires. But I think Lloyds is acting within its rights not to release the funds to 
Mrs P until it has reasonably satisfied itself of her entitlement to them. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1887939