K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that goods he bought using credit provided by Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
(trading as Tesco Bank) are of unsatisfactory quality. He wants Tesco Bank  to provide a 
refund under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mr H has a representative but Ill refer to everything thats been said on his behalf  as if Mr H 
had said it himself, to keep things simple.  
background
Mr H bought an electric scooter near the end of 2017 using his Tesco Bank  credit  card.  It 
cost nearly £300  and stopped working  within a few months. Mr H returned it to the retailer  
but hasnt heard anything since. He wants Tesco Bank to give him a refund because  it 
provided the credit for the purchase.   
Tesco Bank looked into Mr Hs complaint.  It was too late to process  a chargeback.  And 
Tesco Bank didnt  uphold a claim under section 75 as it needed more proof that the scooter 
was faulty. Tesco Bank  did think its initial response could have been clearer  and paid Mr H 
£50 as a goodwill gesture.  
Our investigator wasnt persuaded he could be certain the scooter stopped working  because  
of an inherent fault - in the absence  of an admission from the retailer or an independent 
report. So he didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr H felt this was unfair. He says it is clear there has been a breach of contract  so Tesco  
Bank should provide a refund under section 75. He notes Tesco Bank refers to the 
protection offered under section 75 as one of the top features of its credit  card but doesnt 
explain how limited this is. He asked for an ombudsman  to review the matter.
my provisional findings
After considering the evidence I was minded to uphold this complaint so I issued a 
provisional decision which was sent to both parties on 19 December 2018. My provisional 
findings are set out in the extract  below. 
Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against a supplier of goods or services, 
or the credit provider,  in certain circumstances. Mr H says he bought  this scooter  using his 
Tesco credit  card. I can see a purchase from the relevant retailer  appears  on his December 
2017 Tesco  Bank credit card statement in the sum of £279.50 - which was the price of the 
scooter. Ive also seen an exchange of emails between Mr H and the retailer  in April 2018 
when the retailer  acknowledged Mr H wanted  to return a faulty  scooter. I am satisfied, on 
balance, that it is more likely than not this is the item Mr H purchased with his Tesco  Bank 
credit card in December 2017. 
Im satisfied that the sort of relationship  required under  s75 seems to be present here  
namely debtor-creditor-supplier. So, Ive got to decide if theres been a breach of contract (or 
misrepresentation) by the retailer. Tesco Bank says it hasnt seen the sale agreement 
between Mr H and the retailer - so it cant be certain what the contract terms were exactly. 
I dont think theres any dispute that the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applies to this 
sale contract. This says theres  an implied term that this scooter should have been of 
Ref: DRN10798692satisfactory quality when Mr H received it. And the quality  of goods is taken to be satisfactory 
if they meet  the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking 
account of any description, the price paid and all other relevant circumstances1  which 
includes their state  and condition and aspects  such as fitness for purpose and durability.     
Ive spoken to Mr H. I find his evidence to be credible - and I think  it seems consistent with 
events and the documents Ive seen.  He says the scooter stopped charging about  three 
months after he got it. Hes supplied emails he exchanged with the retailer at the relevant 
time and Im satisfied Mr H reported  this problem fairly quickly  - in the way Id expect when 
something like this stops working. 
I can see Mr H then went to some  trouble  to supply photos of the scooter, showing what  was 
wrong - as the retailer  had requested. I think the retailer  must  have  been  satisfied by what  it 
saw in these photos - because it agreed  to take the scooter back for inspection. I am 
satisfied Mr H then went to the trouble, and some expense, of returning  this quite bulky item 
to the retailer. If the retailer thought the issue wasnt  the result of a fault Id expect it to have 
told Mr H that within  a reasonable time of receiving  the scooter. Instead, aside from 
acknowledging receipt of the item,  the retailer doesnt seem to have  responded to Mr Hs 
various chasing calls and emails. 
Mr H has referred  me to some  reviews posted  online about  this retailer by other customers.  
Whilst I must  stress  that I am only looking at the individual  circumstances of Mr Hs 
complaint here, I accept  there seem  to be a significant number of consumers who have had 
strikingly similar issues to Mr H. I note many customers  have also tried in vain to get hold of 
the retailer so I checked  the retailers website - but it can no longer be found. And a search  
at Companies House says an application to strike the business  off the register  was made  in 
October 2018. 
So, it looks  as if the retailer  may have gone - or is about to go - out of business. Tesco Bank 
says its impossible for Mr H to prove the scooter  had a fault now - as he no longer has it. 
And, in the light of what Ive said about  the retailer above, I think  its unlikely Mr H will be 
able to get the scooter back. 
But, I dont think most  people would expect an item like this  that cost nearly £300 - to stop 
working after just three  months, in the normal course of events. Looking at the photos Mr H 
sent to the retailer,  I cant see any sign that his scooter was abused - or even used very 
much. It still had the plastic  wrapping it came  in attached to various  parts. On balance,  I think 
the fact that this scooter stopped charging after such a short time suggests it probably did 
have a fault. 
The CRA says if a fault appears within 6 months of sale goods must be taken to have been 
of unsatisfactory  quality  at the outset2. I accept  this presumption doesnt  apply if it is 
established that the goods were of satisfactory quality at the point of sale - but Ive seen  no 
evidence to show that here. 
Taking these particular circumstances into account, I am minded to find it is more  likely than 
not this scooter  was of unsatisfactory quality when Mr H got it. Taking all of the evidence Ive 
seen into account,  I think the issue Mr H described  to the retailer sounds like a defect. Im 
1 S9(2)
2 S19(14)
Ref: DRN10798693satisfied he gave the retailer the chance  to check the scooter. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest the breakdown was caused by something other than an inherent issue. 
The retailer  didnt provide a refund or fix or replace the goods within  reasonable time (or at 
all) as far as I can see. So, I am minded to find theres  been  a breach of contract  here and 
Ive considered what amounts to fair redress. Taking  the provisions of CRA3  into account, I 
think Tesco  Bank should give Mr H a full refund of the price he paid for the scooter.    
I invited both parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
submissions by 2 January  2019.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr H has accepted my provisional decision. Tesco Bank hasnt provided any further 
comment or evidence and I see no reason to depart from my provisional  conclusions.   
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive set out above. In full and final 
settlement I require Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) to provide Mr H 
with a refund  of £279.50.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Claire Jackson 
ombudsman
3 S24(10)
Ref: DRN1079869