K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Miss Cs complaint is about  the handling of a claim under their home emergency 
insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited  (UKI).
background
On 27 December 2018, Miss C made a claim under the policy,  as her boiler had stopped  
working. UKI sent an engineer to look at the boiler  the next day. He diagnosed that the air 
pressure switch was the cause of the problem but he couldnt remove the cover from the 
side of the boiler  to access the switch as it was too close to the cupboard. The engineer  said 
the cupboard  door would have to be removed before any necessary work done  to repair this.  
Another engineer  came  back  out on 31 December 2018 with the replacement part. The 
cupboard door had not yet been  removed, so he asked his office  what he should  do and was 
advised to give Mr H a few minutes to remove it. However, UKIs engineer said Mr H was 
aggressive, so his office told him to leave  the property. UKI says its engineer  was assaulted 
and Mr H had tried to prevent him from leaving the property. UKI therefore said that it was 
not prepared to send any other engineers to the property but as the boiler had not yet been 
repaired, it would provide  the remainder of the policy claim limit to Miss C so she could pay 
for the work  to be done. 
Mr H and Miss C got their own engineer out who replaced the printed circuit board, which 
repaired the boiler. This cost them £495.00.  UKI reimbursed £347.60 of this, being the 
remainder of the policy claim limit. However, after Miss C and Mr H complained  it paid an 
additional £148, so they have been  reimbursed  the cost of the repair.
Mr H and Miss C dispute all that UKI has said. They have made a number of submissions,  
which Ive summarised below: 
The second engineer arrived earlier than agreed  on New Year's Eve so 
Mr H and Miss C weren't prepared for him. The cupboard door had yet to be 
removed. Mr H says he was told to expect the plumber after 3pm and he arrived a 
little after 2.30pm. Mr H was aware  the cupboard door needed to be removed and 
was waiting for his friend to do this for him. 
The plumber left the replacement boiler  part in his van and was rude.
The frame for the cupboard door was damaged when the door was removed.
When the second plumber left the property the boiler still wasn't working  even though 
the cupboard  door had been removed.
The engineer's  toolbox damaged the wooden front door
Because the boiler wasn't  working  for so long their electricity bill increased.  
They had to cancel  their New Year's Eve party. 
They had to make  alternative arrangements to have showers.
He didnt assault  the engineer, he was only trying to open the front door to let the 
plumber out.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that it be upheld,  as he 
didnt think there was enough  evidence  that the engineer had acted unreasonably and he 
considered that UKI had made a reasonable offer in settlement  of the complaint. The policy 
claim limit is £500, UKIs own costs  and the £495 it paid for Mr H and Miss Cs own engineer 
far exceeded that limit. 
Ref: DRN10516232Mr H and Miss C do not accept the investigators  assessment,  so it has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have decided  to uphold 
it. 
Mr H and Miss Cs engineer said: 
Called out to above address to inspect and diagnose boiler breakdown.
Inspection found faulty PCB (main computer  board) contrary  to prior inspection  findings  
which diagnosed faulty air pressure switch. Air pressure switch tested and found to be in 
good working order. PCB ordered, reattended site the following day, fitted  part and 
recommissioned boiler. In addition, no requirement  to remove boiler housing  door in order  to 
complete work as per previous engineers demand.
He therefore diagnosed  that the problem  with the boiler was with a different component than 
that diagnosed by UKI. He also confirmed  the cupboard door did not need to be removed in 
order to carry out the repair. Against this, UKI says both its engineers  determined  that the 
boiler could not be repaired without the door being  removed.
I have seen photos of the boiler and the cupboard, taken by both UKI and Mr H and Miss C. 
UKI says the photos show there  is not enough  clearance around the boiler due to the door 
but that is not apparent  from these  photos. The boiler is in a cupboard, with not much space 
around it but it is difficult to see how much  more access was provided  by the doors  removal. 
I also note that the door has apparently never  needed to be removed on any previous visits 
by UKI or anyone  else. Taking this information together, it seems  to me more  likely than not 
that the door didnt need to be removed. But in any event, there is no evidence that the door 
needed to be removed in order to replace the PCB, which was the part that actually needed 
to be replaced, rather than the air switch as suggested by UKIs engineer. 
UKI says that if the door had been removed then the second  engineer  could have replaced 
the air switch and tested it and if that had not been  successful could have deduced the 
problem and if it was the PCB he would  have replaced that. UKI therefore says the boiler 
would have been working regardless of what the issue was but as Mr H and Miss C had not 
removed the cupboard  door, none of that was possible.  
There is persuasive evidence from an independent  engineer that it was the PCB that was 
faulty and needed replacing.  If that had been  diagnosed correctly on the first visit then it 
seems to me none  of the problems that followed would have happened. As stated theres not 
enough evidence  the door needed  to be removed,  to do this repair. So if this had not been  
insisted on, Mr H and Miss C would not have had the problems with the second attendance.  
The engineer and Mr H have made  allegations against each other and I cant reasonably 
determine exactly what happened during that visit but on either  account,  it was an 
unproductive and hostile  encounter. This would probably not have been  the case, if the first 
engineer had not said the door needed to be removed. 
And, even  if the PCB had to be ordered  and a second visit was required to fit it, Mr H and 
Miss Cs engineer was able to do it in two days. Instead, they were left without heating and 
hot water  for around nine days in total before they could get their own engineer to fix it. 
Ref: DRN10516233Overall therefore, I consider the boiler could have been repaired a lot sooner than it was and 
most the trouble caused to Mr H and Miss C could have avoided.  I consider that some 
additional compensation is warranted for this, over and above reimbursement of their own 
engineers costs. I consider £300  is appropriate.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require UK Insurance Limited to pay Mr H and Miss C the sum of 
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of this claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1051623