K821x#15Complaint
Miss M has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
shouldnt have lent to her as she could not afford it. Miss M has also stated that she is 
unhappy with excessive charges having  been  applied to her loan.
Background
Miss M approached SNC for a Safety Net facility  in May 2015. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either  request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account  once  their account balance fell below  a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. To be clear,  this facility  was not a payday  loan.
Miss M was initially given a facility  with a £200 credit limit in May 2015. Her limit was 
increased to £220  in June  2015  and then again  for the final time to £240  in August 2015. 
Miss M made her final drawdown on her facility  on 24 August 2015. SNC has also provided 
information detailing  that Miss M repaid her balance in full in May 2017, after entering into a 
repayment plan.
In SNCs response to Miss Ms complaint it didnt believe  it had done  anything wrong in 
initially giving Miss M the credit facility or in increasing her credit limit. SNC also stated that it 
believed the facility was affordable based on the checks it carried  out and that the rate of 
interest applied  to the facility was detailed in the credit agreement.  So SNC didnt agree 
Miss M had been charged any extra interest or that it had handled  her credit facility 
incorrectly.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Miss Ms complaint.  He thought  the checks SNC carried 
out before  granting this facility brought  information  to light that should have reasonably 
raised concerns  for SNC about lending to Miss M. He believed  such  information about  
Miss Ms circumstances suggested  that she was struggling to repay  existing creditors  and 
her financial  circumstances were  already difficult.  As a result, he didnt think  SNC  should 
have lent to Miss M.
Miss M appears  to have agreed  with our adjudicators findings. However, SNC didnt agree 
and it said that our adjudicators outcome had been  predominantly based on a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) and defaults,  rather than a consideration of Miss Ms income and 
expenditure when assessing the affordability of the credit  facility.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the credit  facility was 
granted.
Im upholding the affordability  part of Miss Ms complaint.  
Relevant regulations in place at the time Miss M was given her Safety Net facility
Ref: DRN11093532At the time SNC provided Miss M with her credit  facility  it was under the regulation  of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).  And the relevant regulatory rules in place were set out 
in the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC)  section of the FCA Handbook of rules and 
guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider;
the potential for the commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation as well as the ability of the 
customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the regulated credit 
agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement  (like Miss Ms 
Safety Net facility), to make payments within  a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2 also includes guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs  to bear in mind when 
considering its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1. Section  5.2.4(2) says;
a firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances 
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the 
potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates 
to the amount of credit granted  and the total charge  for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation.
Additionally, CONC 5.3 contains further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind 
when thinking  about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says;
In making  the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account  more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay  the credit.
Section 5.3.1(2) of CONC goes  on to say;
The creditworthiness  assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps  to assess  the customers  ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences.
Ive carefully considered  all of this when thinking  about whether SNC did what it needed to 
before agreeing to Miss Ms Safety Net facility. To be clear, Miss M was given an 
open-ended credit facility.  Miss M didnt  need to repay all of what  she borrowed plus the 
interest due when she next got paid. Instead,  there  was an expectation that shed repay  
what she had borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable period of time. CONC 
doesnt set out what  a reasonable period  of time is. So I do think its important to note that a 
reasonable period of time will always be dependent on the circumstances of the individual 
case. But at the start of the credit facility the minimum payment Miss M wouldve been 
expected to make was around £20 per month.
SNC says that it reviewed  Miss Ms bank  transaction data for the 90 days prior to the credit  
facility being approved. And having done  so, it says it was satisfied  that Miss M wasnt  
Ref: DRN11093533having trouble  meeting her existing  commitments. Therefore, it believed  it was likely she 
would be able to afford  the payments she was committed  to making.
SNC also carried out credit checks before the credit facility was provided, and it has 
provided us with the results.  These results do raise  some concerns  for me compared to the 
information showing on Miss Ms bank statements. At the time of the facility being approved 
SNC was aware  that Miss M was not insolvent. However, the results  do show that Miss M 
did have an active CCJ and a number of defaulted  accounts.
Having looked  at all the information  SNC  was aware of prior to granting Miss Ms facility, I do 
think it ought to have reasonably been concerned about Miss Ms ability to meet her 
repayments in a sustainable manner.  I say this as Miss M was subject to a CCJ which had 
only been applied  six months prior to this credit  facility being  approved  and it had an active 
value of £1,246. SNC  would also have been  aware  that Miss M had 7 defaulted accounts 
which totalled £2,865. This was the same amount reported for her total active  accounts 
balance at the time. I can see that 5 of these 7 defaulted accounts were  other  short-term  
loans or revolving credit, which totalled  £1,441. 
While I note that none of these  defaults  occurred immediately before Miss M applied for this 
credit facility, they do suggest that Miss M had a history of problems meeting her existing 
debts. Additionally, the bank account  information  SNC had showed, for the three months  
prior to Miss M taking out this facility, she was making monthly payments to four debt 
collection companies which totalled £100.  I think this, along with the active  CCJ and default 
information, suggested that Miss M was still showing signs of difficulties servicing  her 
existing debts and that her circumstances hadnt significantly improved since  the CCJ was 
applied. And I think this was enough to suggest the facility shouldnt have been given. 
But SNC has said, that wed not considered the income and expenditure information that 
SNC had access to before approving the facility.  Ive considered this point, and even taking 
this into account,  I still dont think SNC shouldve approved the facility.   
In the three months leading up to the credit facility  application, Miss Ms statements also 
demonstrate that as soon as any regular income came into her account  the majority,  if not 
all, of it was used up paying off existing commitments and essential  living  costs. SNC  has 
stated that Miss M had an average monthly  income  of £2,405.83. However,  having  reviewed 
the bank statement data SNC  provided, I can see an average  monthly  income of closer  to 
£1,877 for the period  of February  to April 2015.  I acknowledge there were cash  deposits into 
Miss Ms account of varying amounts and number each month  but I also note there  were  
varying cash withdrawals in the same months. When these are totalled up they equal  or are 
greater than the amount of cash deposited. 
Given the sporadic  nature  of these  cash deposits  and withdrawals each month, it isnt 
unreasonable to think  that this could be the same money being taken out and returned  to the 
account. Therefore,  in the absence of anything else, I dont think it would be fair in this 
instance to consider Miss Ms monthly cash deposits as additional regular income. The same 
can be said for the PayPal deposits  into Miss Ms account, as these have no real 
consistency to them  either.
SNC has also stated that it believes Miss M had more than £1,200  in disposable  monthly 
income at the time of her application. Because of when SNC started to review  Miss Ms 
account it isnt in a position to provided a full calendar month of data for February 2015. 
Ref: DRN11093534Ive considered Miss Ms average expenditure for March to May 2015. Based on this, I can 
account for Miss M having a monthly  average  of around £1,737 for normal living  costs (like 
rent, food,  mobile  phone,  petrol and car tax), as well as regular financial commitments (such 
as insurances, debt collection, health membership and longer term credit repayments). This 
left Miss M with an average monthly disposable  income of closer to £140  and this is before 
taking into consideration any short-term loans  Miss M was also committed  to making  
repayments on. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im reasonably  satisfied  that at least  two out of the three months  
prior to taking the credit facility in May 2015,  Miss M had little to no disposable income to be 
able to meet  the minimum required repayment of the credit facility.  So I dont think it was 
reasonable for SNC  to believe she could  afford  to meet the required payments of the credit 
facility in a sustainable manner.
Therefore having  taken  everything into consideration, I think  SNC  was wrong to have 
provided Miss M with the Safety Net facility.
Miss M has also said that SNC applied excessive charges to the account. But I dont think I 
need to consider this point further.  I say this because Ive decided  that SNC  shouldnt have 
granted the facility  so all interest and charges that Miss M has paid will be refunded to her. 
So, she wont have paid any, and therefore I dont need to consider this part of Miss Ms 
complaint any further as I wouldnt  be asking SNC  to do anything  more than I am already 
going to.
What SNC  should  do to put things right
Refund all interest  and charges Miss M paid on the Safety Net facility  
Add 8% interest per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date
they were date to the date of settlement*
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Ms credit file about her Safety 
Net facility.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Miss Ms complaint.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Miss M as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1109353