K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that NewDay Ltd wont refund a payment  made on her credit card to a 
secondary ticket selling website (the Website)  for two tickets to a concert  abroad. 
background
In July 2016 two tickets  were purchased through the Website to attend a concert in 2017  
using Mrs Ms NewDay  credit card.  The total cost charged to her card was just over £434. 
When Mrs M received the tickets  and thought that they were fraudulent. So she didnt use 
them and tried to get her money back.  She wasnt successful with this with the Website,  so 
she complained  to NewDay. 
NewDay raised a chargeback but the Website and it defended the transaction  saying the 
tickets were genuine and it had done  what it was meant to. NewDay  says it didnt think the 
appropriate relationship was in place to consider a claim under s75 of the Consumer  Credit  
Act 1974,  so it didnt  take that any further.  So it didnt think  it could do any more  for Mrs M.
Mrs M didnt  think  this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, they didnt think NewDay had acted unfairly  by declining  Mrs 
Ms request  for a refund. Mrs M didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision  is not about the secondary ticket  selling  Website, 
which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it about the 
original purchaser  of the tickets who then decided to sell the tickets through the secondary 
ticket selling Website (which Mrs M then bought). It is solely  about  what NewDay did or 
didnt do.
Mrs M accepts she made this transaction for these tickets and she hasnt disputed that she 
knew the amount  she was paying.  She also accepts that she was willing to purchase these 
tickets at that price. Only after the purchase, once she had concerns about  the exact nature 
of the tickets shed  purchased did she speak to NewDay.  So having  considered  what Mrs M 
has said (including that she made this purchase and paid for the tickets) and the evidence  of 
NewDay, Im satisfied  the transaction was properly  authorised by Mrs M and correctly 
applied to Mrs Ms credit card account with NewDay. 
could NewDay challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs M 
does here,  NewDay  (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback  process. I 
dont think NewDay couldve challenged the payment on the basis  Mrs M didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue  that Ive already set out.
NewDay is required to consider whether there  is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The supplier (the Website)  would then receive  that 
Ref: DRN18807242chargeback request and may agree  to refund  the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then NewDay should consider this and then if it still feels  the chargeback is 
warranted then it can take the chargeback further  and ultimately to the scheme provider (not 
NewDay) who will then make an independent determination on the matter. So NewDay isnt 
solely responsible  for the decision whether to refund or not when  going  through the 
chargeback process.  And it can decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think  there  is 
a reasonable prospect of success.
NewDay raised a chargeback when Mrs M disputed the transaction.  And Ive seen the 
Websites response to the chargeback. Here it makes clear that the tickets were  genuine,  
that Mrs M was getting them and that shed made the transaction  for them.  NewDay  
considered this and didnt  think  there were persuasive reasons to continue challenging this 
transaction. So considering what it knew, all in all, I think NewDays  decision that there 
wasnt a reasonable prospect of success in going  through the chargeback  process any 
further is fair and reasonable in my opinion. 
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mrs Ms NewDay credit card. Under section  75 of this Act, 
in certain circumstances, she has an equal right to claim  against  NewDay as she does 
against the supplier  (the Website) if theres  been  a breach of contract  or misrepresentation 
by the supplier. The Act includes certain  financial limits  for s75 to apply  which have a 
minimum and maximum levels.  
In summary  section 56 has the effect of making NewDay responsible  during the antecedent 
negotiations leading up to Mrs M entering into the agreement. In essence this means 
NewDay can be held responsible for the things that were done or said during the sales 
process before the agreement was reached. And under section  56 the financial limits 
requirement doesnt apply. For a valid claim  under  Section  75 there must be a debtor-
creditor-supplier arrangement in place. The Websites terms and conditions  say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange.  [Websites  name] provides a service that allows  members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites  
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent  supplied by the Website. But that the Website  does 
provide a service.  And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website  says 
it:
charges  a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service.
So in effect,  there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mrs M, NewDay and 
the Website, albeit not for the direct provision  of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website  
provides a service.  The service consists of two main things - the platform  and the guarantee. 
So I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information is displayed  to buyers. And I 
think, under  the guarantee, its responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if 
the seller doesnt  fulfil their obligations around supplying  the tickets.
Ref: DRN18807243The financial  limits  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 are that the service provided  
by the Website must have  a cash price of more  than £100. Ive seen a breakdown of the 
costs of the tickets  and fees from the Website. But whether or not this dispute meets the 
financial limits  required  for Section 75 doesnt make a difference for the reasons I shall now 
explain. 
For a successful claim Mrs M would need to show a breach of contract  or misrepresentation 
by the Website.  She says the tickets are fraudulent. However shes not provided any 
persuasive evidence  showing  this to be the case.  She has provided photos of the tickets  she 
got which are in the style of electronic tickets with a scan code. Shes also provided pictures 
of hard copy standard tickets for the same  event. However nowadays  tickets come in a 
variety of formats and just because  the tickets she received  werent in the format  she was 
expecting doesnt  mean that they were  not genuine.
She also describes  having a scan code reader  which couldnt read the code on the tickets 
she received. However many firms  which use scan codes use encryption methodologies  
within the code  to prevent fraud.  So unless  Mrs M had access  to those specific encryption  
methodologies Id expect her reader not to work  on such a code. So I dont think  this 
persuades me that this shows that the tickets  were fraudulent.
The Website  says the tickets are genuine.  And as Mrs M never tried to use the tickets to get 
in we dont know  if they would have  been accepted or not. However the website does 
provide a guarantee here so if shed tried to get in and couldnt shed not have lost out. 
NewDay isnt responsible for Mrs Ms decision not to use the tickets. And considering  what  
has happened here Im not persuaded the tickets  were fraudulent or that shed have lost out 
if they were.  So I dont think NewDay did anything wrong here.
This service has built up a thorough understanding of the websites processes and what  
consumers saw as they navigated through the sales process. This includes screenshots  of 
the process from the time that Mrs M was using the website.  Clearly  in many sales process 
things can be done better.  But NewDay can only be responsible here if there is either  a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  which materially impacted Mrs Ms decision to 
purchase. Clearly  there was no breach because the tickets Mrs M bought were supplied  to 
her. And having considered the website sales process throughout from the time Mrs M used 
it, Im not persuaded she was told anything that was untrue  which led her to buy tickets shed 
not have bought otherwise. 
Ive considered the entire sales process  including that before Mrs M makes  the agreement, 
but it doesnt make a difference whether I consider  this under s75 or indeed  s56 because  a 
claim under the act can only be successful if there  is breach or misrepresentation. And Im 
not satisfied there is one here.
So having  considered everything  I think that Mrs M hasnt lost out here as I think  NewDay 
made a fair decision in not taking the chargeback issue further. Im not persuaded that the 
tickets were fraudulent.  And Im not persuaded that there has been  a breach or 
misrepresentation here by the website  which makes a difference and that NewDay is 
responsible for. And I think NewDay correctly applied the cost of the tickets to Mrs Ms credit 
card account. So I dont think I can fairly require NewDay to refund Mrs M for the tickets.  As 
a consequence  this complaint is unsuccessful. However  I do appreciate that this isnt the 
result Mrs M was looking for.
Ref: DRN18807244my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against NewDay  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  15 July 2021.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1880724