K820x#14complaint
Miss F says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Miss F bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a loan. She applied for the 
loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £228.40  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 48-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £48.48 with the PPI costing an additional £5.53, making the total 
monthly repayment £54.01. 
The policy provided  cover  for Miss F for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Miss Fs monthly  loan repayment  for up to 
the remaining  term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Miss F was employed  as a recruitment officer. She has told us she was entitled  
to 12 months or more  sick pay, although  shed only been in the job about a year.  She also 
said she was entitled to 3 months redundancy pay. Miss F has said she had a medical 
condition in 1968, which was treated in hospital.  
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in January 2008.
Miss Fs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Fs representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Miss F wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Fs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Miss F about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;  and
Ref: DRN17884612The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss F and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints on 
our website and published  some  example  final decisions that set out in detail how these  
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Fs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Fs complaint
This sale took place  in 2002, before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in January 2008. That means  the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at the time:
Ref: DRN17884613The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Fs case.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Miss Fs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Miss F with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Miss F sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss F, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss F suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss F and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Miss Fs complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
Ref: DRN17884614did Miss F know  she had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The loan agreement, signed  by Miss F following a discussion in branch, clearly  described 
the PPI as optional and set out the price of the policy separately to the price of the loan.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss F knew  the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Miss F disagrees.   Looking  at what 
happened when  Nationwide  sold Miss F the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. 
Miss F says Nationwides representative discussed  how much the PPI was, what it was for 
and why she needed it, and advised  her to take out the policy  in case  she lost her job. 
However, advice  in terms  of how I must  look at the complaint  means more  than 
suggesting a customer take out a policy because it is generally  a good idea. It means 
looking at Miss Fs individual circumstances and providing a personal recommendation that 
the policy is suitable for her. What  Miss F has said, and the wider evidence  that is available,  
does not suggest that Nationwide did this. It only suggests that Nationwide provided 
information about the policy and explained  (at least to some extent) why it may be useful for 
Miss F.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Miss F. Instead,  it 
had to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  Miss F to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss F was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss F was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Miss F would have taken out the policy without  any 
sense of what the policy was. And I think Miss F knew that the single premium being  added 
to the loan was £228.40,  the interest  added to this was £37.04, the total cost of the PPI 
was £265.44,  and the monthly cost was £5.53.  This information was, in my view,  sufficiently 
clear on the loan agreement Miss F signed.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Miss F agreed  to take out the policy. 
So, I dont think Nationwide gave Miss F sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing her attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN17884615Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Fs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Fs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Fs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss F about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Fs representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss F has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Miss  F? To what extent did Miss  F 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Miss F. 
So, Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss F 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss F 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Miss F says she would not have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss F had to weigh up in her own mind(s) the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Miss F chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So, what  Miss F thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Miss F has suffered  any loss or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, the information Miss F was given about the cost was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit,  limitations  and exclusions, 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
Ref: DRN17884616Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Miss F would get back in return in 
the event she made  a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely that Miss Fs expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
loan payments) were  significantly different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss F thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or disease  that Miss F 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy, and any 
medical condition  or disease for which shed  received treatment, advice or was 
referred for investigation in the 12 months before the start of the policy,  and which 
recurred within 12 months of the start date; 
The policy limited and, in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss F 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Miss F pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss F from taking out the policy.  
The evidence about Miss Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Miss F says she had a medical condition 
when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover  had she needed 
time off work because  of this condition, I dont  think better information  about this exclusion 
would have put her off agreeing to it. I say this because the condition was treated in hospital  
in 1968 and theres nothing to suggest  it was ongoing or had recurred since then. So, I dont 
think Miss F wouldve felt that there was much  risk of this condition  causing her to be unable  
to work. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Miss F wouldve been caught  by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss F would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Miss F needed  to be prevented from doing any work as certified 
by a doctor.  I dont  think this is likely  to be too different to what she would have expected to 
make a claim - it seems  unlikely she would have thought shed be able to make  a successful 
claim if she was still working. 
The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Miss F decided to repay the loan early  and cancel the policy.  Miss F refinanced 
the loan before the end of the original term and received a pro-rata  refund of premiums.
Ref: DRN17884617Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss F would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if she was made redundant or was unable to work through accident or 
sickness. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Miss F would have 
taken out the policy  in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Miss Fs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss F would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss F 
found herself in, as result of the sale, was the same position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Miss F believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss F in the position  she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible that she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.
So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Miss F compensation, as that would put her in a better  position  than 
she would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Fs representative  says a court might 
take if it were to find Nationwide had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is 
Ref: DRN17884618fair compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set 
out I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Miss F in a better position than 
if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1788461