K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) alongside  two mortgages.
background
In June 1999, Mr and Mrs W applied  for a mortgage.  At the same  time, they applied for PPI. 
The PPI covered Mr W and would cover 125% of Mr and Mrs Ws monthly  mortgage  
repayments for up to 24 months if Mr W lost his job or was off work sick, subject to the 
policys terms and conditions. When it started,  the policy cost £35.91 a month.
In 2002, Mr and Mrs W moved house.  They applied for another mortgage with Halifax, and 
this time purchased  a total mortgage  protection plan.  This included PPI to cover Mr W for 
up to 24 months if he lost his job or was off work sick. It also included  level term assurance  
and critical illness cover to pay a lump sum if either Mr or Mrs W died or was ill with one of 
the critical illnesses listed  in the policy.  This time the PPI cost £57.80  a month.  The life and 
critical illness cover cost £29.77 a month. So added together,  the policy cost £87.57 a 
month.
Mr and Mrs W say the PPI was mis-sold. In particular, in 2009  Mr W lost his job, and 
following this he retrained to work  in a different profession. Hes raised a separate  complaint 
about how the insurer looked  on his claim on the policy  Im not looking at this in this 
decision. But I note a claim was eventually paid in 2018. Mr W is unhappy  that the policy  
didnt help him when he needed it. He says that either the policy was sold to him under false 
pretences, given  the difficulties and delays he had claiming on the policy,  or he should  get 
interest to compensate  him for the ten years he says he couldnt claim.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 December 2020.
In my provisional decision I said Id considered all the available evidence  and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is set out on our website, and Id taken this into 
account when  looking at Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Id also considered relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  when  Mr and Mrs W applied for the policy.  But 
based on what Id seen, I didnt think the policies were mis-sold:
I first considered whether it was clear  these policies were optional.  I thought  that, 
based on what Id seen, Mr and Mrs W knew they had a choice to buy these  policies.
 
Halifax recommended  the policies to Mr and Mrs W, so had to make sure it was right 
for them.
Mr W had said that the second  policy wasnt right for him. When he tried to claim on 
the policy after he lost his job in 2009 he found it wouldnt cover him. The policy 
required him to register as unemployed, which he couldnt do as he decided  instead 
to retrain for a different profession.
I stressed that I wasnt looking at what happened when Mr W claimed on the policy.  
This was the subject  of another complaint to the insurer.  I was instead focussing  on 
what happened when  the PPI was sold.
Ref: DRN13281942Looking at Mr Ws circumstances when he bought both policies, I wasnt persuaded 
the PPI policies were  unsuitable. Mr W was protecting a mortgage  his home  was at 
risk if he couldnt meet  the regular mortgage repayments. Mr W was eligible for both 
products, and I didnt  think  his circumstances at the time suggested he was affected 
by any of the main  exclusions  to or limitations  of the policy
I accepted it was possible that the information Halifax gave Mr W wasnt as clear  as 
he should have  been. But Mr W chose to buy these  policies  it looked as though he 
wanted this type of cover.  I think the cover it offered him would have been useful. I 
didnt think better  information  would have  put him off taking the cover. 
I acknowledged what Mr W said happened in 2009. I didnt doubt  that this was a very 
difficult time for him. But this didnt show the policy  wasnt right for him at the time he 
applied for it. I didnt think that either  Mr W or Halifax would reasonably have 
expected that losing his job meant  Mr W would need to leave his profession entirely 
and train towards a job in an unrelated  one. That appeared  to be something Mr W 
instead chose  to do after he lost his job in 2009 based on his circumstances at that 
time.
Mr W had also said he wasnt told the conditions hed need to meet to claim on the 
policy. Looking at the paperwork for both sales, I noted that the application form in 
1999 included  a box on the reverse stating  that to claim for unemployment Mr W 
must be involuntary unemployed,  credited  with the correct class  of National 
Insurance contributions, and in receipt of Jobseekers Allowance. I also saw that in 
2002 Halifax sent Mr W an illustration  including details of what the policy covered. 
This said that for involuntary unemployment,  benefits would be paid when the life 
covered is registered unemployed  by the DSS, actively  seeking  re-employment and 
is not receiving pay in lieu of notice.
Though I couldnt be certain that Halifax specifically drew Mr Ws attention  to these 
conditions, I didnt  think they were particularly unusual or onerous. I thought  Mr W 
would reasonably have expected to provide some evidence to support an 
unemployment claim. I didnt think hed reasonably expect the policy to pay benefits if 
he wasnt actively looking for a new job. And I wasnt persuaded that these conditions 
would have put Mr W off buying  the policy.
Nor was I persuaded that anything  Halifax did meant that Mr W would have 
reasonably expected  the policy to pay benefits  during periods when, though  not 
seeking re-employment, hed instead  re-entered education to train for another career.
For these reasons, I didnt think the PPI was mis-sold.
I also looked at whether  the life assurance  element of the second policy was right for 
Mr and Mrs W. I noted that the policy Halifax had sold had a level term benefit  
which stayed the same throughout the term of the policy  when a policy with a 
benefit that decreased in line with the mortgage might have been more  appropriate. 
However, Halifax said that, although  it offered such a policy, that policy was in fact 
more expensive than the policy it in fact sold Mr and Mrs W  this reflected 
differences between  the two products, including exclusions  and limitations. Having 
thought about this, I noted that the cost of the decreasing term policy appeared 
comparable to similar products on the market at the time, and was satisfied that the 
Ref: DRN13281943product Halifax sold was cheaper. So although  the life cover  may not have been 
wholly suitable for Mr and Mrs W, I didnt think theyd lost out: if Halifax had sold the 
product with the decreasing benefit it would have cost them more.
That said, Halifax had offered to pay back some of the cost of both the PPI policies. 
This is because Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share from the first 
policy, so should have told Mr W about that. Because  it didnt that was unfair. Halifax 
had offered to pay back the commission and profit share that was above 50% of the 
premium. I thought that offer was fair in this case.  Halifax had separately paid back  
some of the cost of the second policy. I didnt think it needed to do more.
I said Id consider any further information  I received by 4 January 2021.
Halifax hasnt sent me anything  further  to consider. 
Mr W doesnt agree:
He disagrees he wouldnt have expected the policy to pay benefits when hed re-
entered education to retrain for another  career.  He thought that it would cover all 
situations where he needed  to find work  capable of bringing in enough to keep him 
housed.
He says that I made no reference to the delay in the policy paying out. And says I 
should consider  awarding interest  or compensation for the impact  of what  Halifax  did 
then.
Ive now reviewed the complaint again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I concluded  that the PPI hadnt been mis-sold  and that what  
Halifax had offered because of the commission and profit share it got was fair.
Ive carefully considered  the further points Mr W has made. But it doesnt change  my 
conclusions. Ill explain why.
First, I note Mr W is unhappy that I didnt comment on the delay between his unemployment  
in 2009 and the payment  of the claim in 2018. He thinks that he should get compensation or 
interest during  this period.
In this decision Im looking at what happened when  Halifax sold Mr W the PPI policies. Im 
not looking at how the insurer dealt with Mr Ws claim on the policies. Mr W has already 
complained to the insurer about that  and an ombudsman has already reviewed that 
complaint. Im not going  to look at what the insurer did again.
Halifax wasnt the insurer, and so wasnt responsible for dealing with the claim.  Im satisfied 
that Mr W got in touch with the insurer at least twice during the period he was unemployed. 
And so while  I cant comment on why these delays occurred  or the period  the claim was 
Ref: DRN13281944paid for  Im satisfied  theyre not the responsibility  of Halifax  and so dont form part of this 
complaint.
Next, Mr W queries why I felt he wouldnt have reasonably  expected to be paid benefits 
under the policy  if he began  full time education  rather than actively looking for a new job.
As I explained in the provisional  decision,  the paperwork from the time stated that Mr W 
would need to register as unemployed and actively seek  re-employment if he wanted to 
claim on the policy. Nothing Ive seen suggests  Halifax told him hed be covered if he instead 
started full time education.
Mr W says I should  take into account  the messaging  promoted  in schools about not planning 
for a job for life  or indeed a career for life. He also thinks it would be unreasonable  to 
expect him to work long-term  in a minimum wage or similar job rather than training for a new 
job more suited to his knowledge,  skills and experience.
But while I appreciate that Mr W feels that the second policy  wasnt  useful for him when he 
needed it, this doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold. Mr W was a professional.  I think hed 
have had some expectation when he bought the policy that if he were  made  redundant from 
his current job hed need to look for other  jobs, either in the same sector,  or in business or 
industry. So I dont  think  this provision, if explained any differently, would have put him off 
buying the policy.
I recognise Mr W instead retrained to become a teacher. But thats something he chose to 
do. Im not persuaded that anything Halifax did meant Mr W expected that the policy would 
allow him to choose  to spend a year studying towards a post-graduate qualification rather 
than actively seeking new employment.  And while Mr W has given me reasons why he 
wasnt able to look for a new job in his existing profession, this is not something Halifax 
could reasonably have anticipated when recommending the policy to him.
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont think  the policy  was mis-sold. 
With respect to the life element  of the cover, I reach the same  conclusion as in my 
provisional decision for the same reasons. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Halifax has offered to pay Mr and Mrs W back  
some of the cost of both PPI policies. This is because:
From  the sale of the 1999, Halifax got a high level of commission  and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium),  so it should have told Mr W about that. 
Because it didnt  tell Mr W that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. I think that offer is fair in this case.
Halifax has also paid back some of the cost of the second policy  I dont think it 
needs to do more.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold, so Bank  of Scotland  plc does not have  to pay back  the full 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
Ref: DRN13281945For the 1999 policy Bank of Scotland plc has to pay back to Mr and Mrs W the commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this.
Bank of Scotland plc has also paid Mr and Mrs W some of the cost of the second  policy.
I make  no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2021.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1328194