K821x#15Complaint
Ms B complains  that Wj King (Garages)  Ltd. provided her with incorrect  information 
regarding payments for a car she was due to acquire  on finance. She wants the monthly 
payments she agreed to honoured.
Background
In November 2018, Ms B visited WJ King to look for a new car. She test drove  a car which  
she liked and on 8 December 2018, she visited WJ King again  and the salesman quoted her 
figures based on a finance agreement for the car. She says these were affordable  and she 
agreed to order the car and paid a £500  deposit.
A few days  later, Ms B says she was called by the sales manager  and told a mistake  had 
been made and the monthly  payments quoted were incorrect. She was told the correct  
month payments  and these werent  affordable  for her so the order  was cancelled.  Ms B says 
she was upset as she had been looking forward to having the car. She raised  a complaint 
and was refunded  her deposit payment and was offered a £250 discount  from WJ King on 
any car she ordered within the next six months. However Ms B didnt this this was sufficient 
and she wants the original monthly payments  honoured.
WJ King says that Ms B visited its showroom in November and test drove two vehicles. One 
was outside of Ms Bs budget and the other  wasnt of interest. Ms B then returned  to the 
showroom on 8 December and spoke with a sales adviser and was quoted  different figures 
to those provided previously. Ms B placed an order for the car and signed the finance 
documents. However on review of the documents a mistake was identified. Ms B was 
contacted about this and told the monthly payments were  higher  than she had been told. 
These werent affordable for Ms B so the order was cancelled.  Following  further 
conversations, Ms Bs deposit was refunded.
WJ King says this was a genuine mistake and it notified Ms B of the issue  as soon as it 
became known. It offered a £250  discount on any other used car Ms B may wish to acquire 
from WJ King within the following six months.  
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He said that a misrepresentation had occurred  and 
while this appeared to be a mistake, Ms B should be put back in the position she would  have 
been had this not happened. In this case the deposit had been refunded but he thought the 
search on Ms Bs credit file should also be removed and that Ms B should be paid £150  for 
the lost expectation and inconvenience this issue had caused.
WJ King accepted our investigators view. Ms B initially  accepted but then said that she 
didnt think the redress was sufficient. She thought it fair that the deal she was originally 
quoted should be honoured.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B agreed to acquire  a car from WJ King based on the monthly payment amounts she 
was quoted. However a mistake had been  made  and the payments quoted were incorrect.  
The correct  payment amounts werent affordable for Ms B and so her order  was cancelled.
Ref: DRN15309052I can understand that this was very upsetting  for Ms B. She was excited about getting a car 
and thought everything had been agreed. She wasnt  expecting further approval to be 
needed or an issue to arise. However,  I dont find it unreasonable that approval was needed  
and as a mistake was found I find that WJ King did the right thing by contacting Ms B at that 
time.
As our adjudicator explained, Ms B was provided  with incorrect information  which  induced  
her into entering into the agreement for the car. Therefore, while  I accept this was a mistake,  
a misrepresentation  did occur. I know that Ms B thinks the original deal should still be 
honoured but the usual  remedy for a misrepresentation is to put the consumer in the position  
they wouldve  been in had the misrepresentation not been made. We wouldnt ask the 
business to put the consumer in the position  they wouldve been in had the 
misrepresentation been true.
Therefore I have considered whether Ms B has been put back into the position she would 
have been had the misrepresentation not happened. In this case,  she has been refunded  
her deposit.  The order was cancelled before delivery  and there was no other  financial loss.
Our adjudicator noted that a search had been carried  out on Ms Bs credit file which wouldnt 
have happened  had she known at the outset the correct  monthly  payments as these werent  
affordable to her. Therefore I agree that this should be removed.
Our adjudicator also said Ms B should be paid £150 for the lost expectation and 
inconvenience she was caused. I agree with this. I know Ms B doesnt think this is sufficient 
but in this case I can see that WJ King acted as soon as the mistake  was identified and 
returned her deposit.  It also offered a reduction on a future acquisition. Ms B was upset by 
not getting the car she believed she had acquired  and was then required to start any search  
again. Given this I find £150 reasonable.
WJ King agreed to remove the credit search and pay £150 and I find this a reasonable 
settlement to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Wj King (Garages) Ltd. should, as it has 
agreed:
take action  to remove the search it performed on Ms Bs credit file on 8 December 
2018; and
pay Ms B £150 for the lost expectation and inconvenience she has experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020. 
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1530905