K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  about an end of contract  charge when  she terminated her Hire Purchase 
Agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VFS)
background
Ms B purchased a car through  a Hire Purchase Agreement  with VFS. The agreement run for 
36 months and ended on 22 April 2018. Ms B says that at the end of the agreement  she 
gave the car back, but VFS took the final balloon payment and an Option to Purchase Fee of 
£60. She says that both payments were taken in error and she got these  returned  through 
her bank. VFS admitted an error with the balloon  payment, but have continued to chase  for 
the £60. Ms B complains that she shouldnt have to pay the £60 Option  to Purchase Fee, as 
she didnt buy the car  she handed  it back. 
Ms B raised a complaint  with VFS but it wasnt upheld. VFS said the £60 Option to Purchase 
Fee is listed  in the terms and condition Ms B signed  and agreed to. It also said that the fee is 
payable, as when  the car is returned, VFS are effectively selling the car on her behalf.
As Ms B remained  unhappy, she brought the complaint to our service.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  He said the terms 
and conditions make  it clear that the £60 is only payable if Ms B decided  to buy the car. As 
she didnt, our investigator didnt find Ms B should  be charged the fee. 
As VFS didnt agree with the investigators  view, the complaints been passed to me to issue  
a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on the information Ive seen from 
both parties, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why - 
The starting point  here is that Ms B handed  the car back at the end of her agreement. 
Neither party disputes this. What is in dispute is that Ms B was charged a fee that she feels 
was unfair.
The Option to Purchase Fee is mentioned several times throughout Ms Bs agreement. The 
first time its mentioned, it says
To exercise  the option  to purchase the vehicle, you must add the Option to Purchase Fee of 
£60 to the amount of the final monthly  payment stated.
Ms B didnt purchase the vehicle, so I dont find VFS can rely on this term. 
Under section 2.4 page 4 of the terms and conditions, it states:
When you have made all the payments due to us under this agreement, you will have the
option of purchasing the Vehicle. You may exercise  this right by paying to us the Option to
Purchase FeeUntil you have exercised this option, the vehicle will remain  our property.
Ref: DRN15432972This again states that the Option to Purchase Fee is payable if Ms B decides to purchase the 
car, so I dont find they can rely on this term either.
The term VFS have relied on is section  12 in Ms Bs agreement. This term discusses the 
agency selling the car on behalf of Ms B, and that the Option  to Purchase Fee would need to 
be paid first. But I dont think Ms B was aware when she handed  the car back  that she was 
asking VFS to sell the car on her behalf.  Having read the agreement, I can also understand 
from the way its worded  why Ms B may have thought this term didnt apply to her. 
The terms and conditions  say: when you have made all payments due to us under this 
agreement, you will have  the option of purchasing  the vehicle.  You may exercise this right by 
paying to us the option to purchase fee ... until you have exercised this option, the vehicle 
will remain  our property.  Im not persuaded that Ms B did exercise this right. So the option to 
purchase fee should not have been debited and I dont accept VWFSs argument that its 
payable when the car is handed back to enable them to sell the car as an agent of the 
consumer. The car remains VWFSs until the purchase is completed. There was no option  
taken to purchase the car so VWFS  cannot act as the consumers agent in any sale as the 
car is not the consumers to sell.
Section 12 also states that Ms B would need  to ask VFS in writing to act as her agent to sell 
the vehicle. I asked several times  for this written confirmation but VFS have been  unable to 
supply it. It did instead say that Ms B agreed this verbally in the dealership  which is not in 
line with the terms  of the agreement. 
Ms B has also mentioned that she had to take time off work  to go to her bank to arrange  the 
return of the balloon payment. VFS have  explained that they took the payment after 
contacting Ms B several times to find out what she wanted to do at the end of the 
agreement- and got no response. Having  seen the letters and based on neither party  
disputing that Ms B contacted VFS after these letters, I dont find VFS acted unfairly when 
they made the assumption she wanted to keep the car. The date it would take the final 
payment was also documented in these  letters. 
My Final  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold this complaint and instruct Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to write off and stop chasing Ms B for Payment of the 
Option To Purchase Fee.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1543297