K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc charged  him a monthly account fee when he 
changed accounts. 
background
Mr G changed his account in February 2015  to a Choices account. He did this by telephone 
and says he didnt  receive any terms and conditions.
Mr G recently  noticed hes been  charged  a monthly  account fee of £10. He says he was 
unaware that the account attracted a fee. To resolve his complaint he wants  Santander to 
refund the account charges for the last 4 years.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said that Mr Gs account  had been  changed  
to a Choices account following a financial review  at which all options were discussed  and 
fees and charges made clear.  The investigator  also said that a letter  and other documents 
were sent to Mr G on 19 February 2015 and that he had been made aware of the £10 
monthly account fee by this method as well.
Mr G didnt agree. He said he hadnt  received  any documents relating to the Choices 
account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the information provided by Santander that Mr G spoke to the financial 
assistance team in February 2015, following which his account was changed to a Choices 
account. Santander says it discussed  all available  options  with Mr G and explained the fees 
and charges. Although the call is no longer available for me to listen  to, Im satisfied that 
Santander would have had these discussions with Mr G.
Following the change of account,  a confirmation  letter was sent to Mr G on 19 February 
2015 which included  information about the account  including the monthly account fee.
I appreciate that Mr G has said he didnt receive this letter. On balance,  Im satisfied  it was 
sent. It wouldnt be fair for me to hold Santander responsible  for the failings of the postal 
service.
Mr G has received monthly statements since the account was changed. These  statements 
show the monthly account fee. I would have  expected Mr G to have looked at his monthly 
statements at various intervals during the last 4 years the account  has been  operating. So 
Im satisfied he wouldve  been aware of the monthly fee.
Mr G has said he does his banking online. Again, the online statements show  the monthly 
account fee so Im satisfied Mr G would have been  aware of this.
I appreciate that Mr G is unhappy  about the monthly  fee. Its up to Mr G whether he changes  
this account to an account which doesnt  have a fee. But its worth bearing  in mind that the 
Choices account  caps Mr Gs exposure  to other fees and charges such as overdraft fees 
Ref: DRN16345402and returned direct debit charges. Mr Gs statements show  that he uses  his overdraft 
regularly and that hes had returned direct debits. Mr G has benefitted  from the Choices 
account because  he would have been charged  unarranged overdraft fees and returned 
direct debit charges  with another type of account.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im unable to say that 
Santander has made an error. Santander  discussed  the Choices account  with Mr G and 
made him aware of the account fee during  the conversation and in a subsequent letter.
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1634540