K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Cambridge Building  Society  (CBS)  has acted unfairly  in the way it has 
charged interest on his buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage account. Hes concerned that CBS is 
treating its BTL mortgage customers less favourably than its residential mortgage 
customers.
Mr S would like CBS to retrospectively change the interest rate thats been applied  to his 
mortgage loan or pay for the costs  of moving his mortgage to another  lender.
background
In June 2016 Mr S took out a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with CBS. He made his application 
through a mortgage broker. Mr S took out a mortgage  for around £218,000 over a 25 year 
term on an interest only basis. The mortgage  was taken out on a two year discounted rate of 
2.7% less than CBS  BTL variable rate until June 2018.
Mr S has complained that when the Bank of England dropped base  rate by 0.25% in August 
2016, CBS chose to pass  on this interest rate reduction to its residential mortgage  
customers on CBS standard variable  rate (SVR). But it didnt drop its BTL variable rate by 
the same  amount. And then when the Bank of England increased base rate in November 
2017, CBS passed this increase to both SVR residential mortgage holders  and customers on 
the BTL variable rate. 
Mr S complained to CBS in November 2017.  CBS issued a final response on 27 November 
2017. It didnt  uphold Mr S complaint. Instead  it explained that a number  of factors  are taken 
into account in the way CBS sets its interest  rates. It said Mr S mortgage isnt designed to 
track the Bank of England base rate and that hes able to apply for other products without 
paying an early  repayment  charge (ERC) if he wants to take out another  interest  rate product 
instead.
Mr S brought the matter  to us. An adjudicator looked  at this complaint in February  2018  and 
gave his view on the matter. In summary  the adjudicator didnt think  the complaint should be 
upheld. The case was reviewed a second  time by an investigator  on a specialist  team at this 
service in 2018. He also didnt  think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr S disagreed with the findings reached by the adjudicator and investigator.  He replied to 
say, in summary:
-He thinks BTL customers are being  treated less favourably by CBS on purpose. Mr S 
thinks CBS can get away with this unfair treatment of BTL customers because  these  
mortgages arent regulated and there would be a public outcry  if interest rates 
werent reduced for residential  mortgage  customers;
-In November 2017 CBS explained  that the BTL rate was being  increased due to a 
change in Bank of England base rate. So why didnt  a fall in Bank of England  base 
rate also lead to a decrease in the BTL rate in 2016?
-he did receive advice  at the time he was sold the mortgage from a broker;
-it isnt that easy or cost free to move  a mortgage. Mr S estimates  the legal fees 
alone of moving  his mortgage to another lender would be around  £500;
-CBS has breached regulation set up to make  sure that lenders treat customers fairly;
-If the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  and our service want to create  a fair 
mortgage market,  perhaps we should  consider removing the barriers  for switching 
products - particularly  around conveyancing costs;
Ref: DRN10303372-The Financial Ombudsman  Service (FOS)  should hold mortgage companies to 
account for their unfair treatment of customers on variable  interest  rates and not 
allow them to do whatever they like.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman look at his case and reach a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the specific circumstances of this complaint. Id like to reassure Mr S and CBS 
that Ive read all the evidence and arguments  that have been made. 
I appreciate Mr S strength of feeling about  his complaint. Im aware  that Mr S would like me 
to look to resolve wider  aspects of unfairness that hes observed about the mortgage market  
as part of his complaint.  For example,  hed like us to review the conveyancing process 
associated with taking  out a mortgage and whether its fair that the borrower  should  be 
expected to pick up this cost. Hed also said hed like us to hold mortgage companies to 
account. 
Were an informal dispute resolution  service, set up as a free alternative to the courts.  We 
look at complaints on a case  by case basis,  brought  by consumers  about  financial 
businesses. My role is to determine the merits of complaints  by considering  the specific 
circumstances of each  complaint.  This service provides a different function  to the financial 
regulator and we dont seek to regulate, fine or punish businesses. Equally were  not set up 
to be a consumer  champion or as an overseer of competition or market behaviour. Rather 
were an independent party that doesnt take sides in any given dispute. We seek to find a 
fair resolution for consumers, in the individual circumstances of each case, if we find that 
they have suffered financial  loss as a result  of a mistake or unfair treatment by a financial 
business. 
The crux of Mr S complaint is that CBS has acted unfairly towards him (and its other  buy-to-
let customers with exposure to its BTL variable rate). He is unhappy that this has led to him 
being charged more interest on his BTL mortgage loan than he thinks he should  have had to 
pay. 
In 2016 CBS lowered  its standard  variable  rate (SVR)  for residential mortgage customers  by 
0.25% in response to a fall in the Bank of England base rate. But, at the same time, it chose 
not to lower the variable interest  rate for to BTL mortgages. Mr S feels this is simply unfair to 
one group of CBS  customers.
did CBS act unfairly when  it didnt pass  on a reduction in Bank  of England  base rate to Mr S 
mortgage in 2016?
Ive looked at Mr S mortgage offer from 2016. Ive looked  in detail at how CBS set out what  
interest rate would apply to Mr S mortgage-  and in what circumstances it said this rate of 
interest could be or would be varied.  
I think the mortgage offer clearly sets out how the discounted  interest  rate product will 
operate for the first two years of the mortgage term. It says:
Ref: DRN10303373The interest rate charged will be The Societys  Buy To Let Rate currently 5.39%, with a 
discount of 2.7% for 24 months  from completion of the mortgage, giving a current  rate 
payable of 2.69%.
After the two year discount expires, the mortgage offer says:
Your loan reverts to Cambridge Building  Societys Buy To Let Rate currently  5.39%  after 30 
June 2018 for the remaining term of the mortgage.
Im satisfied that the mortgage offer showed that the discount rate was set to track CBS Buy 
To Let Rate, and that the Buy To Let interest rate was variable. Nowhere in the mortgage 
offer is there a reference  to any other  variable interest rate provided by CBS.  And there are 
no reassurances that the Buy To Let variable  rate will be the same  as CBS residential  SVR 
or that the two rates must be changed by the same differential at the same time. The offer 
also doesnt say or indicate that the CBS Buy To Let Rate  will track the Bank of England 
base rate. 
Ive also looked  at the Terms and Conditions of the mortgage (2016) to see what  CBS had 
said about the way it sets its variable rates. In section 7 of the terms and conditions  CBS list 
a number of different circumstances  that may lead to CBS changing its variable rate. There  
are a number of reasons given, one of which is:
a) to respond to changes in the Bank  of England  base rate, indices or tax rates;
I think CBS said it will consider changes  in Bank of England base rate when setting or 
changing its variable  rates.  However, I dont think the mortgage paperwork says that this 
mortgage must track,  or that it is directly linked to the Bank of England base  rate in any way.
Having said that, I dont think Mr S is arguing  that he thought  that his mortgage would track 
Bank of England  base rate. Mr Ss argument is that it was unfair of CBS to choose to pass 
on an interest rate reduction to one set of its customers, on its residential SVR, without also 
passing on this reduction to its BTL customers too.
Ive thought about the reasons CBS has given about why it took the commercial decision to 
pass on a rate reduction to one group of its customers and not another. Ive also considered 
how lenders typically  price BTL mortgage debt compared to residential mortgage borrowing.
There are different characteristics to residential  mortgages compared to buy-to-let 
customers, and there are different  risks involved in both types of mortgage. Its not unusual 
for buy-to-let  borrowing  to be assessed  in a different way to residential mortgage lending.  
And these  different types of loans often have separate mortgage terms and conditions to 
reflect the different  nature  of these  two types of debt. 
As Mr S points  out, residential mortgages are regulated and his BTL mortgage is not. I think 
it follows that these  two types of borrowing with different characteristics and risk profiles  will 
be offered different interest rate products from mortgage lenders. And the very fact that there 
is a separate BTL variable rate as oppose to the residential SVR reflects the fact these rates  
are distinct.  I dont think it should  be assumed  that if one of these rates changes,  the other 
variable rate must also change.  
Im not persuaded that the mortgage  offer or terms and conditions would have led Mr S to 
believe that CBS was obliged to change  all its variable rates  by the same  differential at the 
Ref: DRN10303374same time. This is a commercial decision that I think CBS was able to make.  I think  it is fair 
that CBS chose to pass on a reduction in Bank of England base rate to one group of 
mortgage customers with regulated residential mortgages and yet didnt  make  the same  
change to its BTL customers.
Mr S has said that he considers this commercial decision taken by CBS is unacceptable to 
him. He also says if hed known he would be treated in this way he would never  have taken 
the product out. Mr S is aware there  isnt an ERC  involved in his type of mortgage but hes 
pointed out there would be other costs involved in him moving his mortgage elsewhere.  
I see the point  that Mr S is making.  In my experience of the mortgage market, Mr S BTL 
mortgage was typical of what was available then and since. It is standard for a mortgage to 
be lent at an underlying variable interest rate, often with an initial introductory rate overlaid at 
the start of the term. CBS,  like other lenders,  offered mortgages  with initial discounted  
interest rates which reverted to higher variable rates at the end of the introductory period. 
Its also common for borrowers to apply  for further preferential  rates  with the same  lender  (at 
no conveyancing cost),  or to re-mortgage  to another lender  to try to seek out competitively 
priced mortgage deals.  I think  Mr S, setting up a BTL enterprise,  would  have been  aware  of 
that when he entered  into the contract  with CBS. I think Mr S would  have known that there 
might be a cost of him changing mortgage in search  of another  competitive mortgage deal at 
the end of his discounted  period  in 2018. I dont  think it would be reasonable to expect CBS 
to cover the cost of Mr S choosing a new mortgage  lender now because  he doesnt feel he 
agrees with the way its set its variable interest  rates during the term of his two year 
discounted rate product.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1030337