K822xcomplaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Cofunds Limited  accidentally sold her shares when she had asked for 
them to be transferred elsewhere.  
background
Mrs W had an investment  ISA worth over £400,000.  It was held on Cofunds Ageon platform. 
Last September she wanted to transfer her ISA another investment platform. But things  went  
wrong when Cofunds accidentally  cashed  Mrs Ws investments in, rather  than just move 
them elsewhere.
Worried about the implications, Mrs W called Cofunds to discuss the problem. Cofunds 
suggested they put things  right by re-purchasing the holdings,  or doing a price  comparison to 
see if Mrs W was worse off. But she wanted the money transferred ahead of a holiday, so 
didnt want the positions reinstated and instead opted for the cash  to be transferred into her 
new ISA  this was completed by the following week, save for a small residual balance 
which followed later.  
Mrs W remained unhappy and made a complaint. To apologise for their error, Cofunds paid 
her £500  compensation  but she wasnt happy they paid this into her account without her 
accepting it. They mentioned that theyd  offered to see whether shed lost out from having 
her investments sold off  and to do that, theyd have looked at each  holding  to see if there  
was any profit she had missed out on  or to reinstate  the positions. But this wasnt  accepted  
as Mrs W was making different investments on her new platform so given that, and the time 
pressures she had, she opted to just to have the money  moved. 
Mrs W asked  for our help. One of our investigators looked into what  had happened  but she 
felt that while there were  errors made, Cofunds apology and compensation was a fair way to 
resolve things. 
Mrs W felt that more  compensation  was due given the stress and worry caused by having  
her investments cashed in and outside of her control. She also explained that she declined 
the reinstatement offer as she was going  away for an extended  period,  and didnt want this 
to be an ongoing  concern.  So as things werent resolved, the case  was passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mrs W but I think Cofunds offer is reasonable. Ill explain  why.
Its not in dispute  that Cofunds  made an error  here. Ive seen Mrs Ws transfer request form 
from her new platform provider  and it did ask that her ISA was transferred and not sold off  
the covering letter asked  for the ISA to be moved in specie, meaning  the investments were  
to remain intact. 
So what  I need to do is consider how things  ought to have been put right and what impact 
this has had on Mrs W financially and personally.  
Ref: DRN12797522From a financial  point of view, in order  to put things  right Cofunds could have done two 
things  
If Mrs W was moving her holdings to the new investment platform,  Cofunds  could 
perhaps have repurchased them all before sending them over  to do this properly,  
they would  have had to ensure the correct number of units  or shares were reinstated  
so Mrs W could be exposed to the true fluctuation of the holdings during her period 
out of the market.  However, Mrs W was moving her money and changing the 
underlying investments.  So it wasnt  of interest for her to wait for Cofunds to 
repurchase her holdings, only to have sold them again after the transfer  in order to 
put the money into other things.
Knowing this, Cofunds offered to consider the underlying price movements up until 
the money was reinvested and to compensate, if required. They would do this by 
performing a price  comparison for Mrs W  to ensure that selling off her investments 
hadnt disadvantaged her during  her period  out of the market. If Cofunds had done 
this, I would have  expected to see them compensate her for the difference and 
ensure that any compensation  could  be invested into the new holdings without any 
further detriment  to her  such  as additional  fees. 
However, Mrs W was very keen to get things moving and to simply have the cash  balance  
within the ISA sent to her new provider so that it could be reinvested before her extended  
time out of the country. 
From what  Ive seen, I think Cofunds  did all they could  to try and put Mrs W back into the 
financial position she was in before the error was made. They  couldnt undo  what  had 
happened, and they made  sure to move Mrs Ws money onto her new provider  in a 
reasonable time. The transferred money  remained ISA wrapped so there was no detriment 
caused to Mrs W there either.  Mrs W declined Cofunds offers to put things right and I dont 
think they could  have done  any more  to consider the financial position  she was in. 
Nevertheless, Cofunds did make an error and I do see it caused Mrs W worry which she 
ought to be compensated for. 
Mrs W says she was desperately concerned when her life savings were  encashed   she 
feared that she could  lose the majority of her money should Cofunds  have  run into difficulties 
and left her to rely on the Financial  Services  Compensation Scheme. 
Although Mrs W mentions not being in control of her savings, in reality they were not lost and 
instead remained within her ISA wrapper ready to be moved to her new provider. It wasnt  as 
though Mrs W lost visibility of her money, it was still showing as a cash  balance  on her 
account  so I dont  think  Cofunds  jeopardised her savings in the way she suggests.  
Having considered the timeframe involved  from when Mrs W became aware of the 
problem to when  things were resolved  the sum of money concerned  and the assurances 
made during the phone calls, I think the offer of £500 is sufficient to recognise her worry. 
Ref: DRN12797523I also dont agree that paying the compensation into her bank account was necessarily  
wrong of Cofunds.  I see it took them some weeks to respond to her complaint fully, so I dont 
agree that their investigation showed disregard  for the trouble and upset she experienced. 
Cofunds will have considered the calls around  the time, as have I, which  give a fair 
opportunity to consider Mrs Ws state of mind,  circumstances  and concerns.  So I dont agree 
the £500 was offered and paid without due consideration  instead  I feel it is a reasonable 
sum to recognise both the error made  and the trouble and worry that flowed from it.
my final decision
My final decision is that Cofunds  Limited has done enough to settle the complaint  by paying 
Mrs W £500 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1279752