K820x#14complaint
Ms B says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy in 1996.
background
Ms B took out a mortgage with NatWest in 1996.  At the same  time she took out a regular 
premium MPPI policy to cover  her mortgage  payments.  The policy  cost £18 each month  and 
wouldve provided a monthly benefit  of £450 following a successful claim. The policy covered 
Ms B in the event she wasnt working  due to an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms Bs complaint  should  be upheld. Ms B disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide/
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think its likely NatWest made it clear that Ms B didnt have to take out the MPPI and 
she chose to purchase the policy   although  I can understand if she cant remember this 
given how long ago it was  more than 20 years ago.
I havent been able to look at all the paperwork from the time the policy was sold but 
NatWest has sent us a copy of the offer letter for Ms Bs mortgage. I can see on her 
1996 mortgage offer in a separate  box it says You have  selected a monthly benefit of 
£450 under  Mortgage Repayment Protector  Insurance and that she signed a separate  
direct debit mandate for MPPI titled in bold font MORTGAGE  REPAYMENTS  
PROTECTOR INSURANCE. I think this shows that Ms B selected  MPPI  and then 
signed her mortgage  offer to agree to it.
Ms B says she felt pressured into taking the MPPI. But she hasnt given us much detail 
about what was said or why she felt this way. This is understandable given how long ago 
the sale was. But I dont think theres  enough evidence here for me to say that NatWest 
unfairly pressured Ms B into taking out the MPPI.
I havent seen  clear evidence that NatWest gave Ms B any personalised advice about  
the MPPI. So I dont  think it recommended the MPPI  to her. This means NatWest  didnt 
have to check if the MPPI  was right for Ms B. But it did have  to make sure she got the 
information she needed to decide if the MPPI was right for her.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Ms B about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Ms B was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover. She 
told us she was employed and in good  health. And she was solely responsible for the 
mortgage repayments  so I think  it wouldve been useful for her if something  went  
Ref: DRN10563542wrong. It also looks like the MPPI  was affordable. So I dont think better  information  
about the MPPI would  have put her off taking it out.
Ive also thought about the commission Ms B paid on her policy   and whether NatWest 
treated her unfairly.
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Ms Bs policy  was less than half of what  she 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based 
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Ms Bs commission was less than half the cost of 
the policy. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell Ms B about the commission   so I 
dont think NatWest treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Ms B back  any of 
the commission she paid for the MPPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1056354