K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Miss L says Ipswich Building  Society  (IBS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ls case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. I know this will disappoint Miss L  Ill explain why. 
Miss L says that she was told to apply for the PPI to secure the mortgage. And that IBS 
wouldnt lend her the mortgage  without  it. 
IBS have given  me copies  of paperwork from the sale. This includes a copy of the signed 
mortgage application form. On it I can see a section  entitled Insuring Your Mortgage 
Commitment. There is then a broad description  of PPI, followed by an option to select  three 
boxes. The one for IBSs  PPI has been selected  when, equally, the box to indicate 
Alternative cover to be arranged or None required has been left blank.   
Ive also been  given a copy of Miss Ls separate PPI application form. After Miss Ls 
personal details  have been  filled out, I can see that the level of cover has been ticked for as 
Accident, Sickness  and Unemployment. This is then followed by information about the 
monthly benefit and cost.  Miss L has then signed this form. I also have a copy of the signed 
direct debit form just for the PPI  which is called Ipswich Premier Cover.  
Miss L and her representative argue  that the mortgage application form shows  the PPI was 
ticked for by a left handed person  and that she isnt left handed. But Miss L had a duty to 
know what she was signing for. And the box hasnt been ticked  in the same way for the 
separate PPI application form. 
So taking all of this into account, I think IBS most likely made it clear that Miss L didnt have 
to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out. 
Ive also considered that Miss L says she felt pressured into taking out the PPI in order to get 
the mortgage. For me to uphold her complaint on this point I would have to find that its more 
likely than not IBS acted in this way. Having looked  at all the available information carefully, I 
simply dont have compelling evidence to say that an advisor put any unfair pressure on 
Miss L.
IBS recommended the PPI to Miss L. So it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time  I think  that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
In saying the above, Ive carefully  considered what Miss L has said about being 
self-employed. IBS have  given me a copy of the summary  of cover it says was applicable to 
this sale. Its dated  a couple of years before the sale. As this isnt the actual policy 
Ref: DRN14155522document, Ive also asked  the insurer at the time to send me a copy.   This is also dated a 
couple of years before the sale, but relates  to IBSs Premier Cover PPI. 
The insurers  have also told us that this wouldve covered the sale, as it only provided the 
cover for a short while  which included the time PPI was sold to Miss L. So having carefully 
considered both of these  documents and what they say, I think if Miss L needed to make  a 
claim on the policy it wouldnt have  been more difficult for her to have done so because  she 
was self-employed.  So I still think it was right for her. 
 
Its possible the information IBS gave Miss L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. After all, it protected her mortgage which was a big and long 
term commitment, secured on her home  albeit a weekend or retirement one. 
Ive thought about everything Miss L has said - including what she says about  her family 
helping if needed.  But help from others  cant be guaranteed  after all their circumstances 
can change. 
I also note she says this service upheld another complaint against a different business, and 
so it should do, given  her similar circumstances, for this one. But I have to look at the 
individual facts  and evidence of this case.  And thats what  Ive done here. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Miss L paid on her PPI  and whether IBS treated 
her unfairly. 
IBS has told us that the commission for Miss Ls PPI was less than half of what  she paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how IBS has been working this out and based on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Miss Ls commission  was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell her about the commission   so I dont 
think IBS treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Miss L back  any of the 
commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1415552