K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the poor service he received from The Mortgage  Works (UK) plc 
(TMW) after it declined his mortgage  application  due to adverse information on his credit file.
background
Mr M applied  for a buy-to-let mortgage  with TMW via his mortgage broker. TMW  declined  
the application at an early  stage. It said this was due to information on Mr Ms credit  file.
Mr M asked  TMW  for more information,  as he was unaware of anything  that would have led 
to adverse information being recorded  on his credit file.
TMW wrote to Mr M. It said: You have  been advised that there is a linked address on your 
credit file and this then impacted on your application. You are concerned  we will not provide 
you with further  details of the information contained  on your credit file.
The letter then went on to explain  that Mr Ms application had been  declined,  as a result of 
adverse information  found on your credit file. This has been considered by our underwriters,  
and declined  in line with our policy.
It explained that it couldnt provide Mr M with more detail as it didnt hold or maintain Mr Ms 
credit file. It suggested he might want to contact the credit reference agency  directly.
Mr M contacted the credit  reference  agency  TMW had referred to. He says the agency told 
him that it did not have a record of a linked address. But, I note that the credit information 
Mr M has provided to this service  shows  a search by a debt collection  agency  at an 
additional  address on Mr Ms credit  file.
Mr M says he asked  TMW to contact [name of credit reference  agency] to sort out the 
inconsistency but they came  back to me and again  said that I must contact [name  of credit 
reference agency] which I did only to be told again  that there was no problem with the data 
and suggesting  I refer back to TMW. I was therefore left going  around in circles.
Mr M says that he then asked TMW for details of the linked address but it said it couldnt 
provide this information. Mr M said he felt TMW had acted unreasonably by withholding 
information on data they have received and by so doing have denied  me an opportunity to 
resolve any issue there is. Furthermore, I consider that they have been unreasonable  in 
failing to take steps to sort the matter out with [name of credit reference agency]
Our adjudicator said she didnt think TMW had treated Mr M fairly. She noted Mr M had 
confirmed that he did not want to proceed  with the mortgage application. But he did want  to 
understand what TMW had been concerned about on his credit file.
She said she felt TMW should have  provided a valid reason for declining  Mr Ms mortgage 
application, even  if it could not fully disclose the reason.
She said that as TMW had said it wasnt able to provide more detail about  its decision to 
decline Mr Ms application she had looked into the issue  on Mr Ms behalf.
Ref: DRN18901492Having done so, she said she could say with confidence  that there was no linked address. 
And she said she had not seen  anything  that would lead her to think  the information TMW  
gave Mr M about his credit file was correct.
As this was the case she said she felt TMW had made an error when it told Mr M that it had 
declined his application due to a linked address on credit file and this has impacted on your 
application.
In order to compensate  Mr M for the trouble  and upset this matter  had caused him our 
adjudicator said she felt TMW should pay Mr M £250.
TMW did not accept our adjudicators view and asked for this complaint to be determined by 
an ombudsman. It said that Mr Ms credit file showed that trace searches had been carried  
out by a debt recovery  agency at an additional address. It explained that, based  on this 
information it had declined Mr Ms application. It said it did not agree that it had made an 
error, or acted unfairly.
Our adjudicator didnt  agree. She accepted that a lender is entitled  to decline a mortgage  
application. But she said that as there was no evidence of a default she didnt think  TMW  
had acted fairly in declining Mr Ms application.
She noted that the credit reference agency  had said the trace searches should not have an 
impact on a customer's ability to obtain credit or their credit score. She said she felt TMWs 
decision to decline Mr Ms application  was particularly harsh  and appeared to have been 
based on very tenuous evidence of adverse credit.
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Ms complaint on 14 May 2019. I explained that 
having considered all the available evidence and arguments my provisional view was that I 
didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. 
I explained that I can only uphold a complaint if I think a business  has made an error or 
treated a customer unfairly.
I noted Mr M had said TMW had acted unreasonably  by withholding information on data 
they have received and by so doing  have denied me an opportunity  to resolve  any issue  
there is. Furthermore, I consider that they have been unreasonable in failing to take steps to 
sort the matter out with [name of credit reference agency]
I said I was sympathetic to Mr Ms position and I could see that he had difficulty getting a 
clear explanation about the information recorded on his credit file that had caused  TMW  
concern.
But I explained that TMW is entitled to rely on the information provided by the credit  
reference agencies.  It is not required to challenge  or take steps  to sort any problems on an 
applicants credit file - unless it is responsible for providing incorrect information  to a credit  
reference agency.
In Mr Ms case, as TMW had noted,  his credit  file showed that trace  searches were  carried 
out by a debt recovery  agency at an additional address. TMW  also provided additional 
information to this service  to show that there was a default in 2013 at the address that was 
linked to Mr M as an additional address on his credit file.
Ref: DRN18901493However I noted that land registry information showed  that Mr M had transferred this 
additional address to a relative  in 2010, but this did not appear  to be reflected  in the credit 
reference information held by the credit reference agency. I said it was not clear to me why 
this was the case. But I said I couldnt  reasonably hold TMW responsible for any errors or 
inaccuracies on Mr Ms credit file.
With the exception  of the information relating to the trace searches I said there did not 
appear to be any adverse  information on Mr Ms credit file. But I said this did not mean that 
TMW should have  accepted Mr Ms application.  Lenders are entitled to set their own lending 
criteria and there is no obligation on a lender to agree  to lend. Another lender may not have 
considered the information on Mr Ms credit file in the same  way, but this does not mean that 
TMW was not entitled to apply a strict approach.
I said I appreciated Mr M felt TMW  should pay him the £250  recommended by our 
adjudicator as he had experienced difficulty finding out what TMW was concerned about on 
his credit file. But I said I didnt think TMW needed to pay Mr M any redress as I didnt think it 
had done anything wrong.
I also said it was unclear to me why the credit reference agency told Mr M that there  were  no 
linked addresses  on his credit file but had not referred to the trace  searches  relating to an 
additional address.
Having carefully considered this matter I said my provisional decision was that I didnt think 
Mr Ms complaint against TMW  should  be upheld. I said I felt it had a legitimate concern 
about information recorded on Mr Ms credit  file. I also said I thought it had taken reasonable 
steps to assist Mr M when  he queried  why his application had been declined.  I said I didnt 
think that it acted unreasonably in failing to take steps to sort the matter out with [name of 
credit reference agency] 
I noted that Mr M has been in contact with the credit reference agency concerned. I 
suggested that he might wish to contact  it again to clarify the position  it relation to the 
additional address.
Mr M did not accept my provisional  decision. He said:
a) Despite  being  made aware that I was not connecting "linked" address with "additional" 
address and clearly  was not aware the problem related to the [debt recovery agency]  entries,  
at no time did TMW point out to me that the issue related to the [debt recovery agency] 
entries so as to give me an opportunity to resolve  the matter.
b) Despite  having  sight of a letter from [name  of credit  reference agency], their own 
information provider,  contradicting the information TMW had given me as to a "linked" 
address they failed  to check that the information  on which  they based their decision to lend 
was correct. Furthermore, TMW were  aware that they had told me to refer to [name of credit 
reference agency] who were in turn telling  me to refer back  to TMW  so TMW  knew  quite well 
I was going around  in circles but could still seemingly not be bothered to contact [name  of 
credit reference agency] to clarify  the clear contradiction or pinpoint  the [debt recovery 
agency] entries to me. If they had done  so the [debt recovery agency] entries would have 
been brought to my attention and as already stated  I was able to establish  they did not relate  
to any debt owed  by me with a short telephone call to [the debt recovery agency].
Mr M also said, in summary that:
Ref: DRN18901494-I had incorrectly said in the background section to my provisional decision that TMW had 
told him that an additional address was on his credit file. Mr M said TMW had referred 
to a linked address, not an additional  address.
-he had asked his mortgage broker and the credit reference  agency about his credit file. 
Mr M said both  said they could see nothing wrong with it. Mr M said that as he 
understood that TMW had said its concern related  to a linked address he did not 
therefore concentrate  on the report.
-he noted TMW had provided additional information to this service  to show that there was 
a default in 2013 at the address  that was recorded as an additional address on his 
credit file. Mr M said that this begs the question why were  they not forthcoming with 
this information  to ME when I needed  it? and
-he said he did not think  TMW had taken reasonable  steps  to assist him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I am sympathetic to Mr Ms position  I dont think his complaint 
against TMW should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I can see that, as Mr M has put it, he was going  around in circles trying  to get to the bottom  
of why his mortgage application had been  declined. But I dont think I can reasonably hold 
TMW responsible for this.
TMW told Mr Ms mortgage  broker that his application had been declined  due to adverse 
credit information. Mr M obtained a copy of his credit file. It is not clear to me why Mr M did 
not review the credit  file information he had obtained. I note it sets out the trace  search by a 
third party at an additional address on the second page of the report.
If Mr M had any queries, or did not understand the information in the report, the credit 
reference agency would have been  able to help Mr M with this. I think  this would have 
enabled Mr M to understand what had concerned TMW. It is also not clear  to me why Mr Ms 
mortgage broker apparently told his that they could see nothing  wrong  with it.
In view of this I dont think  TMW can reasonably be held responsible  for any confusion about  
why Mr Ms mortgage application was declined.  
linked address/additional  address
In its final response letter  to Mr M, dated  6 August 2018, TMW explained:
your application  for a mortgage with The Mortgage Works has been  declined as a result 
of adverse information found on your credit  file. This has been considered by our 
underwriters, and declined in line with our policy.
I note, that the letter  also said: You have been advised there is a Linked Address on your 
credit file, and this then impacted on your application. You are concerned  we will not provide 
you with further  details of the information contained  on your credit file.
Ref: DRN18901495But I havent seen  anything to show that it was TMW who advised Mr M that his mortgage 
had been declined due to a linked address, rather than an additional address. Having re-
reviewed the correspondence between Mr M, TMW and the credit reference agency  that has 
been provided to his service it appears that Mr Ms mortgage broker may have told him there  
was a problem  with a linked address.
I have reached this view as I note that in Mr Ms letter to TMW  dated 19 July 2018 he said:
Initially I was extremely surprised to see your email to [my mortgage broker] of the 3rd May 
saying there  was a problem with adverse credit as I am sure that I have  no problems in this 
respect (and indeed  I have had a mortgage on my own property with [name of lender] for 
many years.)
Following your email of the 3rd May at [name of mortgage brokers] suggestion I obtained a 
copy of my credit report from [name of credit reference agency] and was told there was 
nothing on this to suggest any problem but when [name of mortgage broker] sent you a copy 
they received  a reply that the problem was with a "linked address" which  again  I could not 
understand 
I think the confusion  may have come about  because  the terms linked address and 
additional address may have been taken to mean the same thing. As our adjudicator  has 
explained, this is not the case. 
I dont think Mr M could  reasonably have  been  expected to know  there was a difference. But 
as I noted above,  the credit reference agency  would have been  able to explain the difference  
to Mr M had he queried this.
I think TMW tried to make clear that the issue it was concerned about  was recorded on Mr 
Ms credit file. In its final response  letter it explained:
your application  for a mortgage with The Mortgage Works has been  declined as a result 
of adverse information found on your credit  file.
decision not to lend
Mr M says that TMW failed to check that the information  on which they based  their 
decision to lend was correct. I dont agree that it was required to do so.
TMW clearly set out that it had declined the application on the basis of adverse information. 
It explained to Mr M you have been correctly advised that we cannot provide you with any 
further details  of information  held on your credit file. This is not information that we hold or 
are responsible for, so we cannot discuss this with you or provide you with additional 
information in relation  to it.
TMW was entitled to rely on the information provided by the credit reference agency when 
deciding whether to lend.
assistance provided by TMW
Mr M has said that TMW knew quite well I was going around in circles but could still 
seemingly not be bothered to contact [name of credit reference  agency] to clarify the clear 
contradiction or pinpoint  the [debt recovery agency]  entries to me.
Ref: DRN18901496But as the final response letter set out: 
I appreciate that you have  contacted  [the credit reference agency] directly to discuss  this, but 
the issue does  not appear  to have been  resolved to your satisfaction.  Although  we have also 
attempted to resolve this on your behalf, we are limited in terms of what  we can do and the 
timescale as to when  we receive a response is outwith our control.
As TMW  had contacted  the credit  reference  agency to try to assist  Mr M I dont agree that it 
didnt try to help him to resolve his query.
It appears that rather than asking  the credit reference agency what  the adverse information 
found on your credit  file that TMW had referred  to might be, Mr M asked it if there was a 
linked address. The credit reference agency  responded (correctly) to say that there was no 
linked address  on Mr Ms credit file. 
I set out in my provisional decision it was not clear to me why the credit reference agency  
had not referred  to the trace searches relating to an additional address in its response  to 
Mr M. Having considered this further I think it may not have done  so as Mr M did not ask 
what the adverse  information  TMW had referred  to might be.
In summary,  although I am sympathetic to Mr Ms position I dont think TMW has treated him 
unfairly or acted incorrectly.  It made a legitimate business decision to decline Mr Ms 
mortgage application based  on information on his credit file. 
When Mr M asked  for more information  about why his application  had been  declined it took 
steps to try to assist  him. I dont  think it acted unreasonably when it suggested Mr M should  
request a copy of his credit file. And I cant reasonably hold TMW  responsible  if Mr M didnt  
review his credit file to see what the adverse information  was that TMW  had referred to.
my final decision
My decision  is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I dont think  Mr Ms complaint 
should be upheld.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1890149