K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about the premium increase he was charged by Hastings Insurance  
Services Limited when  he put his new car on his motor policy  after his original car was 
stolen.
background
Mr C car was stolen on 30 March 2018.  He said Hastings  told him once it had paid his claim 
for the stolen car he had 30 days to put another car on the policy.  Given  his payment had to 
go through a lease  company, it took some time following Hastings payment  for the stolen 
car, for Mr C to be released from his lease agreement in order  to source another  car.
That meant much of the 30-day period  was used up. Mr C did manage to source  a new car 
in the time-period and phoned Hastings to get this new car put on his policy.  He didnt yet 
have the reg number  as it was a brand new car, but the Hastings adviser ran a quote based 
on the make  and model and said the increase in premium would be £92 plus the £20 admin  
fee.
Unfortunately, five minutes  later this adviser called back  saying to Mr C that she needed  the 
actual reg number before  she could put the new car on the policy.  The phone  cut off and Mr 
C phoned back himself  and spoke to a manager  who initially wouldnt  extend this 30-day 
period. Finally he then did. And this manager  ran the quote again, but this time the policy 
increase was £552 instead of the £92 Mr C was originally quoted.  
Mr C complained. Hastings said the original adviser had made a mistake for the quote of an 
increase of £92 was incorrect. The correct  quote  was the increase of £552. But Hastings 
admitted its service to Mr C fell below  its usual standards so it offered him £150 
compensation, which it deducted  off the premium  increase for his new car.
Mr C remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to us. The adjudicator  explained that it 
wasnt Hastings who calculated the actual premium increase  and that instead it was the 
underwriter. And if Mr C wished, we could set up a complaint against the underwriter. Mr C 
indicated he wanted  this. Consequently  although  the service  Mr C has received from 
Hastings was poor and did cause him trouble and upset, the adjudicator was of the view that 
Hastings had done enough to put things right and it didnt need to do anything more.  
Mr C didnt agree and so his complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
I cant look at why the premium increase for Mr Cs new car ended  up being  £552. Its clear 
to me that that price  was generated  when Hastings input the correct car details into its 
system and wasnt something made  up by Hastings This complaint  is set up against  
Hastings who administer  Mr Cs policy on behalf  of the underwriter. However, its the 
underwriter that actually sets the premium amount or premium  increase, not Hastings. So 
therefore its the only the underwriter who explain why it was £552.   
Ref: DRN18504372Mr C did indicate to the adjudicator that he wanted  to complain to the underwriter about this. 
Im aware such a complaint was set up for Mr C and we asked the underwriter to deal with 
Mr C and provide him with a final response  letter but weve  not heard anything further from 
either Mr C or the underwriter about  this.
So therefore, all I can look at is the service Mr C received from Hastings. Hastings is 
adamant the original quote  for the premium increase being £92 was a mistake as the wrong 
model details were entered by the original adviser. So the quote  of £552 was the correct  
quote based on the precise model Mr C was buying.  And as I detailed above its for the 
underwriter to explain and confirm this was correct.  But clearly,  Mr C suffered the 
inconvenience of being told one thing  and finding  it was something entirely different the next 
day. However as Mr C had already ordered  the car before this, I dont consider this mistake  
encouraged Mr C to buy this particular car or prejudiced him in his choice of new car.
Hastings also admits  it gave confusing information  to Mr C about  the 30-day period in which  
to add his new car to his policy. It is how however a fairly standard  condition,  which  most 
insurers impose in cases  where the original insured vehicle is stolen or written off, across  the 
motor insurance industry. And its all to do with the Deregulation Act 2015  to try to ensure 
theres a minimum on uninsured cars on the road.  But I agree Hastings could have explained  
things much better to Mr C. 
I understand Mr C initially  transferred his wifes car onto this policy instead, as he didnt want  
to lose out the five months of premium  he had already paid for this policy,  given  he paid his 
premium upfront. However, as Mr C had to claim for his stolen car under this policy, the full 
premium paid would have been  charged  to Mr C, if he had paid his premium  on a monthly 
basis instead, as the whole premium  is always due once a claim had been made. Its for this 
reason motor insurers offer this 30-day period for the new car to be allowed on the policy  in 
these circumstances.
But I do consider  Hastings service to Mr C could have been much  better  and much  clearer. 
Hastings paid Mr C £150 compensation  for these  service failings (by reducing the premium 
amount when Mr C finally  put his new car on the policy)  and the trouble and upset Mr C was 
put to between 17 and 23 May. I consider that amount  is in line with what  I would have 
required Hastings to pay Mr C, had it not already done so for this confusing  service over the 
course of around  a week.
Therefore, I dont consider Hastings needs to do anything further. I think what its done is 
reasonable. Mr C can always pursue his complaint against the underwriter if he wishes. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1850437