K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Airdrie Savings  Bank mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mr and Mrs B took out with a loan 
(account ending 3706) in 1990. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Airdrie didnt agree  with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  Having  done so, Im upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr and Mrs B and Airdrie agree that the PPI sale took place in a meeting. I cant  know what  
was said at this meeting  as theres no record of this available. But Airdrie has provided  a 
copy of the personal  loan application form which was completed  at the time. Airdrie has said 
that it appears that the form was completed by a member of its staff and signed by 
Mr and Mrs B. And having looked  at the writing on the form I agree that this is almost  
certainly the case. 
I can see that theres a section on the form headed  Loan Details, where details of the loan 
including: amount, repayment period and purpose have been completed by the member  of 
staff. And at the bottom  of this section the following is written:
LIFE, DISABILITY & UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE COVER WILL  BE ARRANGED 
UNLESS WE ARE ADVISED TO THE CONTRARY.  Please mark box (X) if cover IS NOT 
REQUIRED
Although some of this statement  is written in capitals, I dont think  it is shown prominently on 
the form and could easily have been missed by Mr and Mrs B, unless it was specifically 
pointed out to them by the member of staff completing the form for them.
Mr and Mrs B have  said that they were told to sign the pre-prepared  paperwork  which they 
were led to believe was all related to the loan application and that the PPI was incorporated 
within the agreement. And from carefully  considering all the evidence available  to me, I dont 
think Ive seen anything  which  makes me think its more likely than not that it was made clear 
to Mr and Mrs B that the PPI was optional and a separate product to the loan they were 
applying for. So I dont think they are likely  to have realised that they could decline the cover 
by asking the staff member completing the form to tick the relevant box.
So Im not satisfied that Airdrie made  it clear  enough to Mr and Mrs B that they had a choice 
about whether  to take out PPI with their loan, or that it obtained their explicit consent for 
Ref: DRN15642982taking it. And Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for this reason. This means  that I do 
not need to go on and consider whether there were other failings by Airdrie  during this sale.
 
As Ive upheld the complaint, Airdrie  will need to take action to put things right. I understand 
that a successful claim was made on this PPI policy. Airdrie can deduct what was paid out 
on that claim from the compensation Mr and Mrs B are owed  for the mis-sale.  
putting things right 
Mr and Mrs B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it should have 
been and they paid more  than they should have each month. Mr and Mrs B need to get back  
the extra they have paid.  
So, Airdrie  should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs B the difference between what they paid each month 
on the loan and what they would  have paid each month without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs B paid each month  from when 
they paid it until they get it back.  The rate of interest  is 15% a year until April 1993 
and 8% a year from then on.
As Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Airdrie can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Airdrie to take off tax from this interest.  Airdrie  must give 
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against 
Airdrie Savings Bank
Airdrie Savings Bank should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1564298