K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how TSB Bank  Plc (TSB) closed the bank accounts  he held with it. 
background
In November 2018 TSB made the decision to close the accounts Mr W held with it. It did this 
with immediate effect in respect of three of Mr Ws accounts. In terms of a fourth account 
Mr W held with TSB  a Classic Plus account  it said it wasnt  able to close this at the same 
time as it was overdrawn. But, that once the account  was paid off it would close this too. 
It said the reason  it had closed Mr Ws accounts  was because the relationship between 
Mr W and TSB had broken down.  It noted  that it was unhappy with Mr Ws conduct when 
speaking with it. It said Mr W had used inappropriate  language when speaking  with its staff 
 and it did not put up with abusive  behaviour or threatening and inappropriate language. 
Mr W was unhappy with TSBs position. He explained that he understood TSB had the right 
to close his accounts if this was in line with its terms and conditions.  But, he said the reason 
his accounts were closed  hadnt been  effectively communicated to him. And, he was 
concerned with how payments being made to and from his accounts would be affected, as 
well as any charges  he may receive  on the Classic Plus account  on which he was 
overdrawn.
Mr R also noted that TSB sent him a cheque for the outstanding balance on the three  
accounts it had closed. But, he didnt feel this method of returning  his money was 
reasonable. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and didnt think it should be upheld.  He said 
the terms of Mr Ws account did say that TSB had the right to immediately close accounts in 
some circumstances. And he felt TSB had acted  reasonably in doing so on this occasion. He 
also said he could see letters had been  sent to Mr W in terms of the account  closures  to 
inform his of this.
Our investigator noted that TSB had sent Mr W a cheque,  instead  of paying Mr Ws money  
into a designated account with a different bank. But he said TSB had been reasonable in 
doing this, because it had called Mr W to discuss payment options, and Mr W wasnt  happy 
to go through  any security  questions on the call. So, TSB couldnt discuss  alternate  methods 
of payment with him.
Ref: DRN19501062Mr W disagreed  with our investigators opinion.  He highlighted  he hadnt received any letters  
from TSB about the account closures. Mr W also said he didnt complete the security 
questions TSB asked him when it called, because the call came from a private number. So, 
he was concerned answering  these questions was a security risk. 
Mr W also mentioned  further issues, he said hed experienced  with TSB. These being;
that he still hadnt received some account statements he needed; 
that he had received  an unfranked  letter from TSB, which meant  he would need to 
pick the letter up from Royal  Mail and pay additional postage if he wanted to read it;
he wasnt sure whether any charges had been incurred on his Classic Plus account  
for being overdrawn.
Our investigator sent Mr W the statements he had asked for. And he asked TSB what  the 
unfranked letter sent to Mr W was. It wasnt able to confirm what the content of this letter 
was. Our investigator thought TSB should have  made sure any documents  were correctly 
sent. But, he noted this was a mistake. 
Our investigator also said Mr W had incurred charges on his Classic  Plus account. He felt 
these were fairly applied   because Mr W had used the overdraft facility  on his account. And, 
the charges made were  in line with the terms and conditions of the account.  Mr W was later 
informed by this service that these charges had been written off.
Because Mr W didnt agree with our investigators  opinion this complaint has been referred 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  So, I dont require  TSB to do anything  more. Ive explained why 
below. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ws account  do explain that TSB can take the decision to 
close accounts immediately in some circumstances  including where TSB consider that an 
account holder  has behaved improperly.  For example  when an account holder has behaved  
in a threatening or abusive manner. TSB has said that Mr W did behave inappropriately 
during phone calls with it.
TSB has provided call notes from discussions with Mr W. On reviewing these Im aware  
there were times where Mr W did use language  that could be perceived as threatening or 
abusive. And because TSBs terms do allow immediate account  closure  in these 
circumstances Im satisfied it acted reasonably in its decision.
    
Mr W has explained he doesnt  feel TSB effectively communicated  with him about the fact it 
was closing his accounts  and why. TSB said it sent letters to Mr W informing him of its 
decision. So Ive thought  about what happened here.
Ref: DRN19501063Ive reviewed letters TSB sent to Mr W in November 2018. And I can see these  do explain 
that it had taken the decision  to close Mr Ws accounts. Within these letters  it explained to 
Mr W it had made this decision because it felt the relationship between  it and Mr W had 
broken down. It said Mr W had acted improperly  for example in a threatening or abusive 
manner.
Mr W has said he didnt  receive these letters. But I can see the letters TSB sent to him were 
addressed correctly. And TSB has provided  me with screen shots of its system which show 
internal tasks for sending these letters were completed.  Given the content of these letters Im 
satisfied TSB did tell Mr W it was closing his account, and why.
Mr W has also raised concerns about  how TSB dealt with his funds when  it closed his 
accounts. TSB returned the money Mr W held in his accounts by cheque.  Mr W feels  these 
funds should have been sent directly to a different bank account he held. TSB has said it 
sent Mr Ws money to him by cheque because it hadnt been able to talk to him about other 
payment methods. It said it had tried to speak to him on the phone about  where  it should  
send his money. But, because Mr W wouldnt complete the security questions  asked of him 
during the call, it wasnt able to continue with the discussion. 
Ive listened to a recording  of this call. TSB asked Mr W for his postcode and his date of birth 
so it could verify it was speaking to the right person. But Mr W didnt  want to answer these. 
Mr W has said this is because the phone  call from TSB came from a private number  and 
he wanted to ensure  he didnt take any risks with the security of his accounts. I can 
understand why Mr W was concerned about the call. 
But TSB wouldnt have  been able to discuss Mr Ws accounts without security checks  being 
completed. And it doesnt have the capacity to receive incoming calls into the area of the 
business liaising with Mr W at the time.  So, I think TSB decided on a reasonable course of 
action to ensure  Mr Ws money  was returned to him. Mr W has confirmed he has received 
the cheque sent. So, I dont think TSB need to do any more in relation to this issue.
As above, Mr W has also raised concerns about an unfranked letter  sent to him. He has 
provided a screen  shot of a message he received from the Royal Mail which  shows this letter 
was from TSB. I agree with Mr W that when sending letters TSB should pay the correct  
postage, so the customer doesnt have to pay anything further  to receive  the letter. But, its 
my understanding that Mr W didnt  collect the letter, or pay the outstanding  postage  amount. 
So, I dont think he has lost out financially as a result  of this error. I therefore dont 
recommend TSB do anything more here.
Mr W also questioned whether there were any charges outstanding on the Classic Plus 
account he held with TSB. This account  had remained open with TSB until it had received 
the outstanding balance  Mr W owed for using the overdraft facility  on the account.
Mr W has noted he needed  to use this overdraft because his other three accounts with TSB 
were closed with immediate effect. So, he had to use it whilst waiting for the cheque with the 
balance from his other accounts  to come through. 
Ref: DRN19501064Ive looked at the transaction history for this account. I can see Mr W paid a cheque into this 
account  the one he had received  from TSB for the balance in his other accounts. This took 
the account out of its overdraft facility. Following  this, TSB did place charges on the account,  
for Mr W being  in his overdraft in November and December 2018.  So, there was an 
outstanding amount of £11.33 that Mr W owed to TSB. But, TSB wrote  off this amount. I 
think TSBs decision to do this was reasonable, and ensured Mr W didnt suffer  any losses 
as a result  of his accounts being  closed.  So, I dont think TSB needs  to do anything  further.
my final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. So, I dont  require 
TSB Bank plc to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1950106