K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC allowed charges to reduce the value of her pension 
until it was virtually worthless.
background
In 1994 Mrs W met with an adviser  from Lloyds and set up a pension, making contributions  
of £25 a month,  but she stopped these after 16 months. She had made gross payments  of 
£533.28. Lloyds  says it wrote to her at that point to explain that the pension would still be 
subject to charges.  It issued annual statements showing  the state of the pension  and the 
latest one shows  that it is now only worth  £21.29.
Lloyds rejected her complaint and so she brought the matter  to this service.  It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld. She said the 
business had provided copy statements back to 2000 which had been sent to the correct 
address and she had no reason to believe these had not been issued. She also noted  that 
Lloyds had told Mr W that charges would apply after she stopped making contributions.
She noted Mrs W said Lloyds had confirmed it had made an error.  However,  this related to 
information it had given in 2018  about the age at which  Mrs W could take her pension. She 
also pointed out that pension providers  would write  to clients shortly before they were eligible 
to take their pension with information about the available options. She wouldnt have 
expected Lloyds to have  written to her about her options before that. Overall  she didnt think 
Lloyds had done anything wrong.
Mrs W didnt agree and said that it wasnt fair and Lloyds should have given her the money 
back as it was hers. She also referred  to a more recent letter  which explained  the situation 
much better than the previous  annual statements. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs W set up her pension she said, in short, I will make monthly payments and you 
will use that to generate pension for me when  I retire. Lloyds said this is what  it would do and 
it would  charge her for the administering her pension. I gather Mrs W gave up work for a 
period to have  a family and stopped her pension, but never restarted  it. 
Some 16 months after taking out the pension when Mrs W stopped making contributions  to 
her pension Lloyds  wrote to her and said: Please note that the value of the units may go 
down as well as up. We will continue  to deduct  reduced charges for managing  your 
investment and these  are detailed in the policy document.
Thereafter it sent her annual statements which showed how the pension was performing  and 
in the main these  showed that the value was declining due to the charges being imposed. 
Mrs W says she didnt understand pensions generally and she presumed the statements set 
out what she would be paid each year.
I can appreciate that Mrs W didnt fully understand what was happening  with her pension,  
but I cannot say Lloyds  has done anything wrong. The pension it sold her was reasonable 
Ref: DRN14033722for her circumstances and it made it clear to her that it would impose  charges for 
administration. It was entitled to make  those charges and it didnt  hide them. Once she 
stopped making  payments it reduced  those charges, but sadly  they have  eroded  the value of 
her fund which was very small  in any event.
I note that the more  recent communications from business which had taken  over the pension  
is more accessible,  but that doesnt  mean I can conclude that Lloyds did anything  wrong  in 
either imposing the charges or in sending her annual statements. It was open to Mrs W to 
contact the business at anytime to clarify the situation.
I acknowledge that Mrs W will be disappointed,  but I cannot safely uphold her complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 
8 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1403372