K820x#14complaint
The complaint from Mr M and Mr S is led by Mr M. Where this decision refers to Mr M such  
reference is made in this context, unless otherwise stated and unless Mr M and Mr S are 
referred to as the complainants.
The complainants  mainly say Coutts  & Company (Coutts) gave unsuitable advice to 
liquidate an investment; failed to ensure they were aware of the tax implications  of doing so; 
mis-sold an unnecessary and duplicating portfolio service; and conducted itself, overall, with 
conflicted interests and with its commercial interest  as its priority (as opposed to its clients 
best interest).
background
Mr M has made a number of detailed  submissions to this service.  Their contents are 
extensive. They were  made to this service between November 2018 (the set of submissions 
made with referral of the complaint) and March  2021 (the last set of submissions  made by 
Mr M). 
It is important  for a decision to reflect the main points made by a complainant(s) in support of 
a complaint. However, in the present case it is impractical  to feature all that Mr M has 
submitted over the past two and a half years. Furthermore, some  of the same points have 
also been repeated across  the submissions, some of which shows in the background 
summary below. However, the main complaint points/submissions  without undue  repetition 
 will be addressed in this decision.
Submissions in November  2018
Mr M mainly said:
In April 2016 Coutts recommended the transfer  of funds from an AXA offshore bond 
(the AXA bond)  to a Coutts  Tailored Portfolio Service (TPS). This was done  under 
its recommendation to transfer the Discretionary  Investment Management (DIM)  
service he previously  received  and the AXA bond   to the TPS. The AXA bond  
relates only to him (Mr M). It was set up in 2010  to substitute for his main pension  
arrangement and to stand  as the key element  of his retirement planning.
Meetings with Coutts, which  began in June 2015, preceded  its recommendation. 
Prior to April 2016 the notion of collapsing the AXA bond was not discussed.  In 
addition, and prior to April 2016, Coutts failed to advise (or mention) that a Capital 
Gains Tax (CGT) liability of around  £90,000 will be incurred  upon  the collapse of the 
AXA bond.
 
The April 2016 Investment Report  (IR)  produced by Coutts contained errors, had 
important omissions  and, overall, was poor and unclear. For example, it was not 
clear, from the IR, that transferring the AXA bond required  its collapse as a 
prerequisite. A pension report (the PR) was issued by Coutts  at the same time.
In terms of the CGT liability, A potential  CGT liability was only mentioned at p 13 of 
what was a 36-page  report  ; and  the manner  in which  the CGT liability  was 
referred to was dismissive and presented  as something that should be of little 
concern to [them];  and Coutts  misrepresented that   the CGT liability would not be 
Ref: DRN11312402avoidable even  if [they] were  not to collapse the bond immediately due to the level of 
income from [their] other investments; and At no time did Coutts  seek [his] views 
on the timing of collapsing the bond  or discuss with [him] [his] financial plans to 
ensure that [he] would have sufficient  funds to pay the CGT when the liability 
accrued;  and Finally, the potential 90,000 liability  was not identified  in Coutts? 
[sic] calculations of [his] financial standing following the implantation of the 
proposals. 
The IRs treatment of the potential CGT  liability  was also based on an incorrect and 
outdated value  of the portfolio  that is, the value as it was in January 2016. Had it 
been based on an up-to-date portfolio  value  (from April 2016), as should have been 
the case, the potential size of the CGT liability would  not have been erroneously  
stated. Around  £90,000 is what the correct liability turned out to be when the AXA 
bond was collapsed, but the IR had quoted around £30,000  less. The PR made no 
mention of the CGT liability, despite the AXA bond  being  his main pension  
arrangement. 
During a meeting in May 2016, and because the IR was unclear to them,  the 
complainants asked Coutts for a precis  of the pros and cons  of its recommendation. 
Coutts provided this on 12 May and there was no mention of collapsing  the AXA 
bond or of the potential CGT liability associated  with that. As a result, there was no 
discussion on the matter  and on options  around  the matter.
Coutts indicated  that he should  seek advice from his tax adviser, but it also knew  that 
by the time its recommendation  was implemented no such tax advice had been  
obtained. It was incumbent upon  Coutts  to ensure that such  advice had been taken 
before implementation, but it failed to do that. 
The complainants  would not have  followed the recommendation,  but for Coutts  
failures and omissions [as summarised  above].  
In addition, and equally  important, Coutts recommendation abused a conflict  of 
interests on its part; it was incentivised by the prospect of new business for its TPS 
and was not led by the complainants best interest as it ought to have been; Coutts  
actions and inactions were in breach of the complainants  trust and confidence;  
information was deliberately withheld from the complainants; recommendation of the 
TPS was coupled with recommendation  of Coutts Wealth Management  Service 
(WMS) and there was an overlap  between  both which suggests they were mis-sold 
to the complainants;  and Coutts  mishandled its treatment of their complaint.
In response, Coutts mainly said:
Recommendation of the AXA bond in early 2010 was suitable. It is satisfied the 
recommendation met Mr Ms need to apply his considerable excess  disposable 
income (at the time)  towards  a tax efficient investment structure, with the possibility 
of built-in fixed income and asset switches without  immediate tax charges. The AXA 
bond was reviewed in meetings later in 2010, twice in 2011, in 2012,  in 2013 and 
then twice again in 2015, and at no point during these meetings was any concern 
raised about it.
Ref: DRN11312403The main cause  of Mr Ms complaint is the AXA bond liquidation and associated CGT 
liability. Based on its review of the notes of the meeting held on 23 February  2016  
and its review of the IR, both of which led to its recommendation, it disputes the 
allegation that the complainants were  misadvised. Pages  seven to nine of the IR 
provided competent reasoning for its recommendation, including  the anticipated  
changes in their financial circumstances (especially their property purchases and 
associated rental  income)  affecting their tax status  in retirement.  Page 13 of the IR 
gave notice of the tax consequences of the liquidation.
Whilst   the tax liability created transpired to be significantly higher than estimated 
in the suitability letter, this is because of market movements between the date of the 
letter and date of encashment,  so it was not an error on its part and the potential for 
a change in the amount of tax liability was stated in the IR. 
In terms of its complaint handling,  the complaint was made  on 20 April 2018 and it 
issued its response  on 31 May 2018;  in between it investigated the complaint and 
gave due consideration to relevant evidence/documents; this was not an 
unreasonable length of time to address  the complaint.
Submissions in June  2019
Mr M mainly added the following:
Relevant summary background is that he, personally, banked  with Coutts for over 10 
years and until 2015 his relationship manager  was responsible for both pension  and 
investment advice. Thereafter, and unknown to him at the time, this responsibility 
was split between  two advisers. He introduced Mr S to Coutts for the same pension  
and investment advice  service.  
He is not a sophisticated  investor, he is naturally risk averse when it comes to money  
and savings (and especially in terms of the risk of losing capital) and he relied on 
Coutts for advice.  The pension  adviser  was aware  of his profile in this respect  and 
was aware that he needed simple and illustrated explanations  of advice and had little 
time for detail, and over time he developed  trust in this adviser to do the right thing 
for him.
Their complaint includes their allegation  that the TPS alongside the WMS  services  
were mis-sold to them; that the 2016 liquidation of the AXA bond, in the TPS service, 
was without good reason and conflicted with the rationale behind  setting  it up in 
2010; and that there was insufficient justification  for moving non-pension  assets into 
the TPS service (the idea that the WMS  service  was unavailable to new clients was 
inapplicable to them  as existing clients).
Their investments did not need to leave  the WMS; by placing them all under Coutts 
management they lost the benefit of advice from the previous service providers; and 
Coutts never explained the alternatives to liquidation  of the AXA bond (such  as its 
retention, its partial surrender  or its full surrender and reinvestment in another 
offshore bond) which could have had better or no tax implications.
Coutts made no effort to disclose its conflict  of interests, to avoid it, or to avoid any 
detriment, to them, from it. In this respect, they were also misled to believe  the 
previous whole-of-market advisory service  (based on suitable third-party financial 
Ref: DRN11312404products) he received from Coutts was continuing,  instead it stopped  advising on that 
basis and was promoting only its own financial products.
Investigators view in July 2019 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In summary, he found  that any complaint about advice in 2010 is out of time; that the 
IR in 2016 included prominent  notice  to Mr M about  the potential tax liability associated  with 
liquidation of the AXA bond  (including notice that the liabilitys size could change  with market 
movements); that, in addition, Mr M ought to have known that the tax benefits connected to 
an offshore bond  would be matched by creation  of a tax liability once the investment is 
brought onshore; that he had not seen  evidence Coutts mishandled  the complaint; and that 
the conflict of interest allegation should  first be put to Coutts before treatment  by this service.
Submissions in August and September 2019
Mr M replied to the view with further  submissions in the above months. The first submissions 
were brief and expressed disagreement with the investigators view; concern that 
contemporaneous evidence, of the absence of notice about potential  tax liability in 
discussions prior to the IR, had been  ignored;  disagreement with the suggestion  that he 
should have sought clarification of anything in the IR he was concerned about (instead, he 
said, Coutts ought to have  given  prominent notice and explanation of the potential tax liability  
in its advice); and confirmation that he has never complained about  the 2010  advice.
In September,  Mr M asked this service for disclosure of some  documents  and for 
explanation of some of the investigators findings.  He then made  full submissions 
commenting on the investigators approach towards the case  and responding to the 
investigators findings of merit in the case.  With regards  to the latter,  he mainly said:
The submissions that have been  made and the evidence that has been  shared with 
this service establish merit in the complaint, and in the complaint related assertions 
he has made.
Coutts action in conducting itself solely or primarily for its own commercial  interest,  in 
terms of increasing asset under  management (AUM) in its TPS by almost £3 million 
(the portfolios  value),  and not in the complainants interests  is at the core of the 
complaint. Yet the investigator wrongly  concluded that this could not be treated 
because the conflict  of interests  allegation  had not been presented to Coutts. Coutts 
was on notice of the full nature  of their complaint before it issued its final response.
Coutts was duty bound  to ensure that a potential  tax liability of around  £100,000 was 
justified in its advice  and that this was made very clear to him. The investigator 
attached no weight to this.
The investigator concluded that Coutts complaint handling was satisfactory, yet he 
had not even considered documentation  related to his internal complaint to Coutts 
and the internal process.
This service decided to have the case reviewed by another investigator. By early 2020 the 
second investigator had contacted both parties  to explain this and to say all issues  raised  by   
Mr M will be addressed.  Before that, in November  2019, Mr M shared with this service a 
Ref: DRN11312405detailed document  he had put together for Coutts attention, in which he presented all 
complaint issues. The second investigator  forwarded this to Coutts  in January 2020.
Submissions in February 2020
Coutts made these  submissions in response to the review by the second  investigator and in 
response to queries from him. In the main, it said:
The complainants  both have professional backgrounds related to investments and 
tax. This context must  not be ignored. It supports its conviction that they had enough 
knowledge and experience between  them  to understand  its advice  and the rationale 
behind the advice.
In response to the second investigators query  about the reasoning  behind  the AXA 
bond liquidation, it considered that the bond  was no longer  suitable  for Mr M. It was 
an income tax generating asset  and because the complainants  had acquired two 
investment properties (at the cost of around £6 million), future annual rental income  
from them (estimated at around £90,000) would reduce their ability  to manage 
income tax efficiencies, because  their basic bands of tax will be mopped up annually 
by rental  income.  However, an unwrapped portfolio gave them the ability to use their 
CGT allowance to manage gains  in a way that the bond did not make available.  The 
IR explained this rationale and informed  the complainants  to take guidance  on the 
matter from their accountant.  In addition, the bond held high risk investments which, 
upon review, were deemed unsuitable and a high-risk  approach  was deemed 
unwarranted, given  less risky alternatives to achieving their retirement target annual 
income of £100,000;  and this matched their instruction at the time to de-risk their 
portfolio.
It has noted the second investigators query about the rationale behind the TPS 
recommendation, despite the complainants investments already being serviced by 
the WMS along with ongoing advice  from the relevant investment  providers;  and 
about the rationale of undertaking the TPS alongside retention  of the WMS,  which 
the complainants say almost doubled the fees they paid. In response, it said the TPS 
must be distinguished from its Ongoing Advice  Service (OAS). The OAS  an opt-in 
service  gave clients access to a wealth manager when  needed. It included  the 
minimum of a detailed  annual review and report (including any recommendations) 
without further  charge.  The complainants  were  not receiving ongoing advice  from the 
investment providers. The TPS included bespoke portfolio designing  and dedicated 
portfolio management  (based on an agreed mandate). Mr S favoured  the 
components of this service. The complainants  were clear that they needed ongoing 
advice, hence  the coupling of the TPS and OAS for them. It should be noted  that, 
because they received  both services, they had a discount  on the OAS annual  
charges from 0.8% to 0.2%. 
The second  investigators view
He found that the complaint should  not be upheld. In the main,  he said:
The Investment Report in April 2016 contained  a section headlined Considerations 
for transferring  the Discretionary Investment Management Agreement  and AXA 
Offshore Investment Bond to the Tailored Portfolio Service" which explained that the 
sale would crystallise an income tax liability. Im satisfied that Coutts made you 
Ref: DRN11312406aware that collapsing the bond would result  in you being liable for to [sic] pay a 
significant sum on tax. And whilst I appreciate  this information was on Page 13 of the 
report, I think that it would  be reasonable to expect an investor to study 
recommendations in detail  before deciding whether to proceed.
In addition, the complainants would have been aware that liquidating  an offshore 
bond valued at over £1 million  would result in a significant tax bill; and even though  
the IR under  estimated this tax bill it also gave  notice that its estimate  was subject to 
market movements.
Mr M says Coutts should have  reverted to him just before liquidation  of the AXA bond 
to check that he still wished to proceed  with the liquidation,  given  that it had 
appreciated in value  at that point;  and that had it done so he would have declined the 
recommendation. However,  the IR already told him to seek  tax advice before 
proceeding with the recommendation, so Coutts was not wrong in not reverting to 
him in the way he described. Coutts did not give tax advice so it could  not be precise  
about the potential tax liability and it would have reasonably expected  Mr M to take 
tax advice as it recommended that he should.
Coutts reference to the AXA bond  being unsuitably high risk matches Mr Ms 
reference to being  naturally risk averse;  Coutts reference to the bonds  deferral of 
income tax being defeated by the complainants  future rental  income is correct; the 
previous hope  of deferral to a point  when a lower rate of income  tax became 
applicable had been substituted by the probability that a higher rate of income tax 
would apply because  of the substantial  future  rental income; Coutts  reference  to 
using the CGT  allowance within an unwrapped portfolio was also reasonable; and, 
overall, its recommendation  of the AXA bond  liquidation was not unsuitable.
The WMS  and TPS provided different services; the former advised generally on 
finances and the other  managed the investments held with Coutts; there would, at 
times, have been an overlap, but the reduction  of fees from 0.8%  to 0.2%  reflected  
this; the fees for both services  were clearly presented in the IR; the IR also says the 
complainants sought and agreed to consolidate management of their investments; 
the TPS served this purpose and there  is nothing wrong in Coutts recommending  its 
own product in this respect; Mr M says the IR is, in parts,  inaccurate  and is therefore 
unreliable, but if anything  within it was incorrect that should have been brought to 
Coutts attention  for correction at the time; the TPS recommendation  was broadly 
suitable.
Complaint  handling,  in isolation,  is not something that this service  usually addresses.  
The complainants  are unhappy  that Coutts  did not offer or grant  them an interest free 
loan to settle the CGT bill whilst their complaint  was being considered. However,  the 
IR says they were satisfied the liability could be covered by reserve cash and excess  
income. If this was considered to be wrong,  it had been stated in the IR so the 
complainants should  have said so. In addition, the IR recommended that this be 
discussed with their accountant.
Mr M objected to the second investigators  view and made submissions on this in October 
and December 2020, and in January 2021  (with  an enclosed bundle of documents). In the 
main, he said/added the following:
Ref: DRN11312407The TPS recommendation  in 2016  was the first time Coutts recommended its own 
product to them, previously it advised, independently, on third party  products. The 
shift in 2016 meant it was no longer advising independently and was advising with a 
conflict of interests.  It should have  made  this entirely clear  but did not. The second  
investigator does not appear to have understood the significance of evidence 
showing that Coutts prioritised its self interest  in achieving almost  £3 million of new 
business for the TPS  that is, the complainants  portfolio  and in enhancing its 
AUM. This conflict  of interests matter alone  is enough to justify their complaint.
Coutts claim about the distinction between the advisory WMS  and the management 
TPS is defeated by its email of 12 May 2016 which  says the advisory  role will be 
replaced by the TPS.
Significant information was withheld from him which would have  enabled the AXA 
bond to be adjusted,  in terms of exposure  to risk, and retained.  This included  the 
fund switching facility  (without limits  or charges) within  the bond, which could have 
been used to reduce its exposure to risk and which should  have been offered to him 
as an option; and an in-built  facility  to place the bond under the supervision of Coutts 
ongoing portfolio management, whereby it could have  been subject to ongoing 
reviews and adjustments under such management. There can be no excuse for 
failing to explore  these alternatives, especially as they were part of the element of the 
AXA bond  that were sold to him by Coutts in 2010 in order  to show  it was suitable for 
him  yet Coutts elected to ignore these same elements where  they could have 
served their purpose.
The recommendations to undertake the TPS and to liquidate the AXA bond  were also 
contrary to advice  from Coutts  around  two months earlier  affirming  that their 
investments/portfolio (including the AXA bond)  was suitable and should  not be 
reviewed until they had taken advice on restructuring  them for inheritance tax 
mitigation purposes.
At no time had [he] expressed any dissatisfaction with the operation  or performance  
of the Bond,  on the contrary [he] was incredibly pleased with it and at no time 
indicated that [he] wished  to dispose  of it. At no time did [he] express a need to 
remove the most successfully performing aspect of [his] investment portfolio and 
invest it with a relatively new service with little, if any, track record of performance  at 
all let alone at a cost of £100,000  in CGT. 
It is unfair to place  the responsibility  on [him]  to wade through  a misleading  
document to work out what  was being proposed. This was Coutts proposal it was up 
to them  to make very clear what it involved.
He was not aware that the bond was going  to be liquidated immediately, with a 
resulting CGT liability, because this was not discussed; liquidating  the bond was not 
stated as a recommendation in the IR; he had no desire  to liquidate the bond; he 
expected Coutts  to act in his best interests,  it knew he had not spotted the proposal 
to liquidate the bond and it knew that if he was aware of the proposal he would have 
objected to it; the recommendations were confusing and the precis given by Coutts 
omitted the CGT liability, instead it highlighted a prospective CGT  benefit  in terms of 
utilisation of the CGT allowance, without mentioning the initial  CGT cost to him. The 
IR did not refer to a CGT liability, instead it erroneously referred to an income tax 
liability. 
Ref: DRN11312408Courts  cannot avoid  any liability for inducing [him] into a contract because it told 
[him] to verify the position with [his] accountants. Coutts knew  that it had undervalued 
the Bond  and that its advice was wrong.  If it was relying on [his] accountants to 
correct that advice then at the very least it should have checked with [him]  that [he] 
had verified the position with [his] accountants.
Coutts should not have made  a recommendation,  to them, that relies  on complex tax 
issues without first discussing  it with them and their tax advisors   it did not do this. 
Coutts knew that the bond liquidation was executed without them  receiving tax 
advice, despite  also knowing  that it was a recommendation that should not be 
implemented without  proper tax advice.
If Coutts position is that the AXA bond was too risky for him in 2016, given that there  
had been no change in his attitude towards risk since the inception of the bond   and 
given the same  with regards to the bonds  risk profile  it follows  that the bond  should 
never have been recommended  to him in the first place. In terms of changes  [He]  
had informed Coutts how [he] wanted to take a little risk off the table and that was to 
ring fence  [his] gains. They knew that was the extent of the action that [he] wanted to 
take so far as the Bond was concerned and they chose to ignore it They acted 
against [his] wishes  in collapsing the Bond.  At no time did [he] express any desire to 
remove any capital from the Bond and there  is no justification for Coutts to have done  
so.
In terms of the investment properties that have been mentioned,  Coutts has 
misrepresented and exaggerated the matter. One was a replacement  for the family 
home that had been sold and this was not a recent  event  in 2016 as it had happened  
three years earlier in 2013. The other  was not a long-term investment, instead it had 
a long-term family related  plan attached  to it. As such, there was no long-term  shift in 
their potential  future income and income  tax status, contrary to what Coutts claims. 
At best, and in the mid-term, there was a possibility of £40,000  income from this 
property and Coutts knew this could not be guaranteed given its awareness of the 
problems they had faced on the first letting of that property. In any case, any rental 
income would  have made no difference to their future tax status, given that he had 
future pension income that would have triggered  the higher rate of income tax 
anyway.
The AXA bond had an income  withdrawal facility, upon retirement, at favourable tax 
rates. This was one of the benefits  Coutts highlighted at the point of its 
recommendation. 
Their onshore investments likely  held gains that could have been subjected  to 
utilisation of their CGT allowance, so it was not necessary to liquidate the AXA bond 
for this purpose.
They did not say they were satisfied the tax liability  could be covered by reserve cash  
and excess income,  and they could not have said this because  Coutts  did not 
discuss the tax liability  (and bond liquidation)  with them.
Coutts should redress their complaint by paying  compensation for the CGT liability 
that was incurred, by paying compensation for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused by the matters  within their complaint, by paying for an independent financial 
Ref: DRN11312409review of the flawed  advice given in the 2016  IR (and PR) and by initiating  an 
independent investigation into the conduct of the advisers who featured  in their case.
Submissions of 9 March  2021
Mr M made these submissions for the direct  attention of the ombudsman. Within  the 
introductory paragraphs of this document  he acknowledged that it is beyond the 
ombudsmans remit to comment  on the approaches taken by the investigators or to 
comment on the complainants  concerns about  their approaches (as that is a matter  for this 
services Independent Assessor); and he acknowledged that the ombudsman will be 
reviewing the case  afresh. He also requested  that the ombudsman be transparent  about  any 
new information derived from Coutts  at ombudsman stage  and/or information that has 
been within this service but has not been disclosed  to the complainants  and that the 
complainants be given the opportunity to comment on such  new information.
Mr M asked  the ombudsman to ensure that the following  documents,  from and for the 
complainants, are considered  their submissions of November 2018,  submissions  of June 
2019, the document put to Coutts  in November 2019 and the submissions between  
December 2020  and January 2021.
The submissions then progress into a section summarising the complaint   which,  in the 
main, is as I have summarised  (from  the previous submissions) above; but for, Mr Ms 
assertion that the complainants did not agree to implementation of the recommendations 
from Coutts, that their signatures on relevant documents were procured  by false and 
misleading ways  (by Coutts)  and that they were pressed by Coutts to agree the 
recommendations (without  reasonable time to consider them);  but for, his reference to 
regulatory breaches committed by Coutts in terms of the wrongdoings the complainants 
have alleged; but for a claim for lost earnings  from the AXA bond (had it not been  liquidated);  
and but for, a request  for a full and independent  accountant led loss 
assessment/investigation as part of the outcome to their complaint.
Next, the document refers to recommended reading for the ombudsman and key points that 
should be addressed in the ombudsmans findings (which,  in the main, features rebuttals to 
statements from the investigator and from Coutts). The document  then has a concluding 
section  which also reflects submissions  that have been summarised  above   and a 
concluding request that if the ombudsman remains  unconvinced  by the complainants  case 
reasons for this should  be put to them and they should be invited to comment on those 
reasons before the ombudsman concludes  a decision on the case.
Further Submissions in March 2021
On 21 March Mr M made more representations, this time to the second investigators 
manager, to which he attached a bundle of correspondence evidence and in which he 
promised a chronology to follow. On 24 March, he sent the manager a chronology--based 
table of key information related to the complainants approach and attitude towards 
investments over the years (from 2008  to 2016) and in their engagements with Coutts.
Referral
The complainants  case was referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN113124010my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold the 
complainants complaint.  I treat the issues, individually, below.
Before doing that, I address the two procedural requests Mr M presented for the deciding  
ombudsmans attention. The first relates to any new information or evidence I have derived 
from Coutts after referral of the complaint  to me and to his wish for disclosure of such 
information and the opportunity to comment.  I confirm that I have neither sought nor 
obtained any such new information/evidence from Coutts.
The second  request seeks dialogue between me and the complainants over my findings if 
such findings lead to the conclusion that the complaint is not upheld.  This service provides  
an Alternative Dispute  Resolution forum, but it must  be noted that any elements of mediation 
(between opposing parties) in our approach  would usually  not go beyond the end of the 
investigators role in the investigation stage of our process. Sometimes  an ombudsman 
might intervene at the investigation stage and take part in any mediation  attempt  in which 
case some  preliminary findings might  be discussed with the parties, in aid of a potential  
settlement of the complaint  but the matter would remain at the investigation stage.
At our decision stage an ombudsmans  remit is to determine a complaint by reaching an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  mainly  based on applicable laws, the regulators 
rules (and guidance)  and available evidence (including submissions from the parties). I am 
satisfied with the level of evidence available  in the present complaint. It is enough to 
determine an outcome  to the complaint. I am also satisfied  that both parties  and especially 
Mr M (on behalf of the complainants)  have been given ample opportunity  to exhaust their 
submissions and have  done so.
Consensus with either party or both parties in a complaint is not required at the decision 
stage, so the idea of discussing  my findings  with the complainants  before concluding a 
decision is not a part of my remit. If my decision differs from the investigators view then an 
alternative approach  is followed, whereby a provisional decision is issued, parties  are invited 
to comment on it and then a final decision is determined. However, this does  not apply 
presently because I share the same  conclusion the second investigator reached  so only 
this final decision is required. 
For the above reasons  as well as the inherent  unfairness in the idea of discussing my 
findings, before issuing  a decision, with only one party to the complaint and not the other   I 
have not met Mr Ms second request.
Evidence
It is clear that Mr M (on behalf of the complainants) requires my consideration of all the 
documents he has referred to and of all relevant evidence. I assure him  and Coutts   that I 
have done this. It is as a result of doing so that, in the lengthy  background section above, I 
have been able to refer to the key submissions made by both sides and been  able to 
summarise the main contents  of the different submissions and comments.  As stated above,  I 
have also taken an independent, fair and reasonable approach  towards my consideration of 
the complaint  (including the evidence).
Conflict of Interest
Ref: DRN113124011Mr M has highlighted the importance of this issue within the complaint. It is his strongly held 
conviction that a conflict  of interests within Couttss position and Coutts  abuse of that conflict 
of interests,  to the complainants detriment,  is at the core of the complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has Principles that all regulated firms, like Coutts,  
must comply with. The matter of conflict of interest  is addressed  at Principle 8 as follows   
A firm must manage conflicts of interest  fairly , both between itself and its customers  and 
between a customer  and another  client. [my emphasis]
Based on the above, the existence of a conflict of interest is not automatically prohibited.  
Instead, and as emphasised above,  focus is on the firms obligation to manage the conflict 
of interest fairly. Further (relevant)  rules  and guidance are in the Systems and Controls 
(SYSC) section  of the FCAs Handbook of rules (and guidance). SYSC  10 is dedicated to 
conflicts of interest. SYSC 10.1.3R  requires firms to either prevent or manage a conflict  of 
interest. The complainants might  consider  that the former lends support to their case,  but the 
rule permits a firm to do either  the former or the latter.
The requirement to manage a conflict  of interest   where it has not been prevented   is 
addressed at SYSC 10.1.7R, which says  A firm must maintain and operate  effective 
organisational and administrative arrangements with a view to taking all reasonable steps to 
prevent conflicts of interest  as defined in SYSC 10.1.3 R from adversely affecting  the 
interests of its clients.
It is beyond my remit to audit Coutts organisational and administrative arrangements. For 
the purpose of this decision, the relevant  message in SYSC10.1.7R is that a firms 
management of conflicts of interest  must,  within reason,  ensure  that any such conflicts  do 
not adversely  affect the interests of its clients. This is the standard  I shall apply, where  
relevant, to the complainants allegations  about Coutts having a conflict  of interests in their 
case. 
Associated with their allegations is the notion that Coutts seeks or might have sought  to 
deny that a conflict of interests existed, especially with regards to the TPS recommendation. 
Where firms cannot ensure, within reason, that conflicts of interests do not affect their 
clients interests SYSC 10.1.8R obliges them to disclose to clients  the relevant conflict(s) of 
interests and what they have done to mitigate the effects of such conflict(s)  upon the clients. 
As such,  if and/or where I find that Coutts  could or did not discharge its duty under SYSC 
10.1.7R, this is the standard I shall apply  to consider whether (or not) it discharged its duty of 
disclosure to the complainants.
A key observation to make is that Coutts  had a general vested interest  in its activities that 
would have been obvious to the complainants. It was/is a going commercial concern. 
Unsurprisingly it was/is in business to make money  and profit, it did not present itself 
otherwise and the complainants  would  have known this. The notion that it derived a 
commercial benefit from the sale of its own product  to the complainants  and/or from its 
advice to them is not enough,  on its own, to establish a winning conflict  of interests 
argument. It establishes  that Coutts did not prevent a conflict  of interests  in its service to the 
complainants but, as stated above, where  such is the case  a firm then has the alternative  
duty to manage  the conflict to ensure it does not adversely affect  a client.
The Claims
Ref: DRN113124012The IR contains Coutts recommendations  of the TPS and of the AXA bond liquidation  the 
two main recommendations  that feature in the complainants complaint. The issue related to 
the TPS recommendation is the complainants allegations that it was unsuitable, that it was a 
pointless duplication of the WMS  and that it was a recommendation based solely (or mainly) 
on Coutts pursuit to serve  its own commercial interest by populating  its TPS function with 
around £3 million of their money (representing £3 million worth of new business for Coutts  
(and for the TPS function)). Given the last allegation, the matter of conflict of interests is 
clearly also relevant to the claim of unsuitability.
The issues  related to the AXA bond are Mr Ms assertions that Coutts  advice to liquidate  it 
was unsuitable,  that Coutts failed in its responsibility to ensure he was given and 
understood the rationale behind the advice and that Coutts failed to ensure he understood 
the CGT implications of implementing the advice. As stated in the background section 
above, he has confirmed  that there is no complaint about the recommendation of the bond  in 
2010, so there is no call for me to address  its suitability (or otherwise) in 2010. 
At first sight, there might appear to be no conflict of interests allegation directly associated 
with the AXA bond liquidation  matter. However, as I have understood Mr Ms argument,  he 
believes the totality of Coutts recommendations  which I address further below  was 
aimed at generating the total of around £3 million new money/new  business (from the 
complainants) for its TPS function; the AXA bon liquidation was part of Coutts total 
recommendations so, inevitably, the conflict of interests allegation applies to the AXA bond  
liquidation matter  too.
The FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) sets out a regulated  firms obligation 
to give suitable  advice (under COBS 9.2). In particular, COBS 9.2.2R says a firm must 
ensure it has grounds for believing its advice  
(a) meets [the clients] investment objectives;
(b) is such that [the client] is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment  objectives; and
(c) is such that [the client] has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
With regards to the information  obtained by a firm from a client,  in order to assess suitability, 
COBS 9.2.5R says  A firm is entitled to rely on the information provided by 
its clients  unless it is aware that the information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or 
incomplete. 
The rules  also set out a firms obligation  (under  COBS  9.4) to provide  a client  with a 
suitability report that informs the client of the reasons why the advice is suitable. In 
particular, COBS 9.4.7R  says  
The suitability report must, at least:
(1) specify, on the basis of the information obtained  from the client , the clients  demands and 
needs;
(2) explain why the firm has concluded that the recommended transaction is suitable for 
the client having regard to the information provided by the client ;
(3) explain any possible disadvantages of the transaction for the client  
The IR
Ref: DRN113124013I acknowledge Mr Ms references to discussions and meetings with Coutts, related to the 
AXA bond  liquidation and the TPS recommendation. However, as set out above, the 
regulator provides  explicitly for what, in the main and as a minimum, should be considered  in 
terms determining whether (or not) a firms investment advice was suitable  and, if so, 
whether (or not) the firm reported  the suitability of its advice to the client. As such, I am 
persuaded to start my consideration  of the AXA bond liquidation matter at evidence related 
to Coutts suitability assessment. This includes the fact-finding  related documents (which 
contributed to the assessment) that I have  considered and the IR. Some  of the fact-finding  
and assessment related documents appear  to have been for Coutts internal use, so they 
were possibly or probably not seen by the complainants. Mr M has highlighted those they 
were not party to. However,  the same does  not apply to the IR, the contents of which, in 
broad terms,  is not particularly inconsistent with the sum contents  of the other  documents.
There is no dispute that the complainants received the IR of April 2016. Mr M has noted 
differences between  the copies that have been  shared  with this service,  so I have 
considered what  I believe  to be the uncontroversial  version that appears to have  been  sent 
to him and Mr S at the time. My main  findings of fact on the report  are as follows:
The document is detailed and thorough  presented over 38 pages (around 16 pages 
of which  provided  generic information).  Despite  its length  and because of its 
contents pages, its layout and what I consider to be its accessible language  I am 
satisfied that it was not unduly complex  and it was not a document the complainants  
could not have understood. In this respect, I am also persuaded by Coutts argument  
about the implications  of the complainants professional background. For the sake of 
safeguarding their anonymity in this decision I will not mention the details of that 
background(s), but it is safe to say that the complainants both had, at the time, 
significant backgrounds in professions which routinely  require competent  skills in 
understanding detailed and complex  information. They  have also been very 
successful, at the highest levels,  in their professions  the reasonable inference to be 
drawn from this being that they must have been very competent  in deploying such  
skills as part of their attainment of such success.  There is no intent, in this decision,  
to use this information in any way against the complainants, but it is information that 
is available to me, that is relevant to my consideration of how they would  have 
understood the IR and that would  be unreasonable for me to ignore. 
Related to the above  finding is Mr Ms argument  about having an arrangement  with 
Coutts in which  it knew he did not favour the idea of going  through reports  and, 
instead, preferred  information to be simplified for him. Any such  arrangement  stands 
 wholly  or partly   somewhat in conflict  with the regulators rule on providing a client  
with a suitability  report. COBS 9.4 is, and must be, meaningful in its existence  and in 
its application. The purpose of its existence (and application) is to ensure that a client  
is properly informed  about the grounds on which a firm says its advice is suitable  
and, in practice, to ensure there is a means by which that is recorded and/or 
evidenced. The invitation within Mr Ms argument is for me to disregard the IR  
wholly or partly  and focus more (or only) on what he was told (and not told) verbally 
(and/or in summary) by Coutts.  Where  there  is evidence that Coutts  told him 
something that conflicted with the contents  of the IR, I agree that both should  be 
considered. However, other than that, it would be contrary to the purpose of the 
regulators rule to disregard a suitability report that was sent by the firm and received 
by the client, and one that is directly relevant to a complaint.  I have not done that, so 
I consider the IR to have important evidential value   especially for the additional  
reasons given directly  below.
Ref: DRN113124014Overall and on balance, I find it implausible that the complainants would not have  
understood the contents of the IR. The IR included attachments  of documents  
associated with the recommendations it made; it stressed, in bold, that the 
complainants must ensure they carefully  read all the information provided; and it 
invited them to comment on its contents. Given the absence of evidence  showing  
that the complainants disagreed with the IRs contents and/or objected  to its 
implementation at the time  and given  evidence that they proceeded to implement 
the recommendations within it (which could not have happened without their 
agreement)  I consider  the IR and the evidence it presents to be, overall  and on 
balance, reliable. For the sake of completeness, I also have not found evidence of 
the complainants being manipulated by Coutts,  with false  and misleading  
representations, to agree the IR or to agree implementation of the IR; and the same  
applies to the suggestion (or claim) that they were coerced into doing  both.
A concluding point  to note on the legitimacy of the IR is that both complainants 
signed and dated  declarations on 11 May 2016  confirming their receipt  of the IR, their 
review of its contents, their discussion of its contents with Coutts, that the 
recommendations (and other contents) in the IR were based on information they had 
provided to Coutts and on complete  and accurate information about their 
circumstances, their agreement with the recommendations and their authority for 
Coutts to implement the recommendations.  Copies of these signed declarations have 
been shared with this service and they appear  to be credible.
The IR has a section  that summarised the complainants circumstances at the time. 
Financially, and in the main, it says Mr M earned around £1 million per year;  jointly, 
the complainants wealth stood at around  £13 million; they had annual disposable 
income of between £400,000 to £500,000; they reserved no more  than £100,000 as 
a contingency  fund; and they were resident and domiciled in the UK for tax purposes.
The next section  in the IR mainly  recorded the complainants risk profile as 
Moderately Risk Tolerant, which meant  they were prepared to  accept a medium 
level of risk of capital loss in order to achieve moderate returns  and that they were 
 comfortable seeing the value of [their] investments fluctuating as long as the risk 
of significant loss to [their] overall  investments is minimised over the long term. 
Relevant to this, is reference  (in a different section)  to the complainants  having  
sufficient capacity  for loss. The following section addressed  the complainants  
investment knowledge  and experience, summarised their history  of making 
investments and concluded that they were informed  investors.
The IR then proceeds into an Objectives section which features a banking,  and not 
investment, context. A summary  of the complainants investments objective is in the 
section addressing their risk profile.  It is recorded that they had accumulated enough  
invested wealth  and did not need  to continue investing aggressively, instead the IR 
said they sought to build  a little more protection for the wealth they had accumulated.  
It is also recorded that they retained  the need  for their invested wealth to deliver 
target net annual  income of £100,000 in retirement. In another section, the IR also 
refers to their rental annual income of £90,000.
A section  of the IR summarises the complainants assets at the time, including  
separate reference to Mr Ms AXA bond,  and confirms  that their stated values  are 
what they were at Coutts last meeting with the complainants.  The value for the bond 
Ref: DRN113124015was stated as £1,160,735  and it is given a Medium-High  risk profile; Mr Ms  DIM 
portfolio was also mentioned, with a value  of £222,027 and with a Medium risk 
profile; and Mr S equities portfolio was mentioned, with a value of £165,244 and with 
a Medium-High  risk profile. 
Coutts endorsed  the ongoing suitability of the DIM portfolio but said the DIM service 
was closed to new investors. It took a different view with regards  to the AXA bond. 
The IR said the bond had achieved its objective  of building additional target wealth of 
£1 million; that the tax deferral  strategy  it was supposed to be used for (at a point 
when it was anticipated Mr M would be a lower  rate tax payer) had been negated by 
the £90,000 annual rental  income  (for him and Mr S) that was to continue  into the 
future; that the aggressive  investment strategy  on which  it was based was redundant 
in the new objective  of working towards  transition away  from wealth accumulation;  
that the higher risk profile of the bond  also went against the more  balanced approach  
he sought at the time; and that, overall,  the bond  did not match  the review of his 
investor profile.
The IR recommended  liquidation of the AXA bond and consolidation of its proceeds 
with the DIM portfolio and the equities portfolio all under the TPS. It also 
recommended the holding  of Mr Ms Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP)  
valued at around £1.5 million  and Mr S SIPP (valued at around £240,000) in the 
TPS. The total value  of the complainants assets that would  be under the TPS is what  
Mr M has referred to as the prospect of £3 million  new money/new business from 
them and for the benefit of Coutts TPS function.
Before addressing Coutts rationale behind its recommendations,  I must note 
evidence in the IR that defeats  Mr Ms argument about being  misled to believe Coutts 
was advising from a whole-of-market basis. After  a brief table-based summary  of the 
recommendations, the relevant section  of the IR states the following  Coutts offers 
investment advice on a restricted advice basis this means that we offer investment 
advice only in relation to our bespoke range of Coutts products and services, as well 
as on a limited number of products and services  selected from the wider market.  I 
am familiar with notices like these  from Coutts  from other  Coutts related cases  I have 
considered and/or  determined. I am satisfied  that Coutts clarified  to the complainants  
 expressly in the IR  that it was not advising from a whole-of-market basis.
Coutts said the TPS recommendation was suitable mainly because  it facilitated what 
the IR described as the complainants objective to consolidate  their investments  and 
wealth in one place. The IR assured them that the relevant  parameters/settings in the 
TPS will match their overall joint investor profile,  will match  aspects of their pre-
existing investments they wished  to retain and will revise  those aspects  they wished 
to change. The discretionary characteristic of the TPS was highlighted and the IR 
summarised what appears to have  amounted  to the mandate  by which Coutts  would 
discharge its discretionary management for the complainants  TPS portfolio.
The next section  in the IR highlighted  matters the complainants were directed to 
consider in terms of implementing  Coutts  recommendations. This section gave clear 
notice that liquidation of the AXA bond  would  create a tax liability.  I agree with Mr Ms 
observation that it erroneously  referred  to an income tax liability  instead of CGT, but 
I am inclined  to consider  that this could  have been an unintended  error, and might 
not necessarily be evidence of a misunderstanding by Coutts, because the sentence  
that follows correctly  refers to the liability arising  from gains within the bond. In any 
Ref: DRN113124016case, notice about the creation of a tax liability was given,  alongside  notice that the 
amount quoted (£63,331) was based on a past valuation of the bond; notice that the 
actual size of the liability  was dependent upon market movements, in terms of the 
value of the bond; and twice repeated notice that the complainants  should take tax 
advice from their accountant  four sections later, this notice was repeated for a third 
time.
The next section  in the IR clarified that the OAS  which I referred  to in the 
background above  was part of the WMS. This section of the IR recommended the 
OAS, distinct from the TPS recommendation,  because it would provide the 
complainants with a source of financial review, financial advice (and reporting)  and 
ongoing advice  (and monitoring) across  their total wealth.
Suitability, Conflict of Interests and Mr Ms submissions
The AXA Bond
With regards to the recommendation to liquidate the AXA bond, I have considered the 
rationale given  in the IR and the points made  by Mr M.
Mr M is correct in saying there  is no evidence  he was unhappy  with the bond.  In this context 
I accept his assertion  that the opposite  was the case, that he was pleased with the bonds 
performance and had no problem in retaining it. An initial finding, on balance, arising from 
this  and perhaps  one that his assertion does not intend to serve   is that it stands  to 
reason he would not have  agreed  with the liquidation of a bond that was performing well, 
that he was so pleased with and that he would have  liked to retain  if he did not agree with 
the grounds on which Coutts  recommended  the liquidation.
I appreciate that Mr M has questioned, within the complaint, aspects of Coutts  rationale for 
the recommendation. In determining a matter  about  suitability/unsuitability an investors 
objective(s) at the time of advice should  be taken as it was (at that time). Unless the 
objective, itself,  was unsuitable  and, if so, a firm ought reasonably  to have advised  as such  
 the objective cannot reasonably  be revised  in hindsight. If that is done, the unreasonable  
result would be to judge  a firms  assessment of suitability on an objective(s) that is different 
to the objective(s) it faced at the relevant time. For this reason and because I have not seen  
evidence of Mr M objecting to the idea of liquidating the AXA bond, I am not persuaded by 
his present arguments about not wanting the liquidation.  In straightforward terms, if that was 
the case in 2016 despite Coutts  recommendation, he would have said so and as the final 
decision was his, the bond would  never  have been  liquidated. In fact, his final decision was 
to proceed with the liquidation. Whether (or not) he initially did not want  the liquidation, his 
agreement to proceed with it suggests  he agreed  with Coutts  reasons for recommending  it  
so the issues  to address are whether (or not) the objective that guided its recommendation 
was true; and then whether (or not) the reasons for the recommendation made it suitable.
I repeat  the lack of evidence showing the complainants correcting the contents of the IR, so 
on this basis the IRs depiction of their objective(s) can, on balance,  be considered true. That 
objective, broadly  speaking,  was wealth preservation and consolidation (and ensuring that 
scope to produce their target retirement income was unaffected).
Coutts, in the main,  considered that the AXA bond had served its purpose;  that, like Mr M 
says, it had performed  well; that it had achieved enough (up to 2016) in the context of wealth 
creation but was too risky in the context  of wealth preservation; and that achieving the tax 
Ref: DRN113124017deferral strategy which was planned  for the bond  had become unlikely given the prospective 
levels of the complainants future  income.  
I have looked  into available evidence to verify these views and, overall, I consider that they 
rested on reasonable grounds at the time. The bonds  good performance is not in dispute 
and, as I said above, I consider the wealth  preservation objective to have been true. Having 
considered the bonds contents, I am persuaded that the medium-high  risk rating  Coutts 
gave it was fair and it is plausible that an investment with such  a risk rating would not match 
the idea of reducing risk in a portfolio for the sake of wealth  preservation  or, as Mr M put it 
to this service, ringfencing  his gains and, as he stated  in his November 2018 submissions,  I 
was looking for ways in which the gains secured by the excellent performance of the AXA 
bond could be ring fenced and safeguarded. The complainants Moderately  Risk Tolerant 
risk profile was essentially a balanced risk profile,  so this too could be viewed  as 
mismatching a medium-high risk bond.  
It is reasonably conceivable  that an objective to reduce  risk, to ring fence gains in the bond 
and to safeguard  those  gains would remain open  to the threat of failure if the bond remained 
exposed to the market.  Even if the gains  portion  within it was somehow safeguarded,  leaving 
a remainder of it exposed to the market would mean exposure to either  the potential  of 
further gains or, importantly, to the risk of loss; and, if the latter,  any earlier safeguarded 
gains might well be defeated  by any subsequent losses of the same  or greater value. In this 
context, it is possible to understand and agree with Coutts view that Mr Ms objective  was 
essentially a prompt to liquidate the AXA bond  and to permanently secure the gains within it.
The way Coutts  referred to the effect of the complainants future rental  income has been 
disputed by Mr M. Nevertheless, there appears  to be agreement  that the complainants  were 
indeed likely  to remain higher level income tax payers in the future, so the idea that the tax 
deferral strategy associated with the AXA bond (and dependent  on a lower future income tax 
liability) had become  somewhat redundant in 2016 also appears to stand to reason. 
Overall and on balance,  I consider  that Coutts  gave reasonable  grounds for presenting the 
AXA bond  liquidation as a suitable  recommendation to Mr M and I am not persuaded by his 
claim that the recommendation was unsuitable.  It follows that, as the recommendation was 
not unsuitable, it did not adversely affect  Mr M, so any conflict of interests  he believes to 
have existed within it was managed enough to avoid an adverse effect upon him.
Generation of CGT liability  was inevitable upon  the liquidation of a bond that had performed 
well, that had unrealised gains within it and the proceeds of which were to be brought  
onshore. This ought reasonably to have been obvious to the complainants, who had a 
reasonable body of investment knowledge and experience behind them in 2016. Even if this 
was not obvious to them, the IR gave notice of a tax liability related  to the bonds gains. As I 
have already acknowledged,  it wrongly referred  to income tax, but the message about a 
significant tax liability associated with the recommended liquidation was reasonably clear. I 
do not accept  Mr Ms claim that the notice was insufficient. It was enough to convey the 
relevant points to consider (about the tax liability, about an indicative amount of that liability 
based on a past valuation  and about  the potential for the amount  to change with market 
movements) and, perhaps more  importantly, it was enough to stress (with repetition) the 
need for him to obtain tax advice. Coutts could not have forced  him to do so and it should 
not have had to monitor  whether (or not) he did so. It did as much  as could reasonably  be 
expected, given that it did not advise on tax, to bring  it to his attention that such  advice 
should be obtained, thereafter it was his responsibility to seek and take tax advice.
Ref: DRN113124018In terms of the impact  of the potential CGT  liability upon the suitability of the liquidation  
recommendation, I do not consider that it made the recommendation unsuitable. Coutts 
explained why the previous tax strategy for the bond (and its gains) was no longer viable and 
the bond exposed Mr M to a higher level of risk that was no longer necessary. The issue  
appears to boil down to whether (or not) an investment that no longer serves a definitive 
purpose, and one that has become too risky for the investor, should be retained  because it is 
performing well but also in order to avoid  CGT. CGT would likely have been payable  
whenever the bond was to be liquidated  (assuming  market  movements  did not reverse the 
gains from past good  performance and erode the gains in the meantime). Overall, on 
balance and in Mr Ms case, I am not quite  satisfied that a potential CGT liability  made it 
unsuitable to liquidate a bond that essentially mismatched a revised investment strategy. 
I address Mr Ms key arguments as follows:
He says Coutts reference to their future  rental income at the time is misrepresented.  
I do not consider  that this argument  negates  the fact that both sides agree the 
complainants were likely to be or remain higher  rate tax payers  in the future.  That is 
what I consider to be the finding  which supports Coutts reference to the AXA bonds  
tax deferral strategy being somewhat  redundant.
He says there were  alternatives to liquidation  that could have been considered, but 
were not. Mr M makes  a credible argument  in this respect but one that, in my view,  
falls short of establishing that the bond liquidation was unsuitable. Coutts was obliged 
to give suitable  advice, not the most suitable advice possible. It is therefore possible, 
in hindsight, to consider  alternative  suitable  recommendations  it could have  made in 
2016 and I agree  that the examples given  by Mr M could potentially  have been 
suitable. However, the point  remains that for the reasons given above the 
recommendation to liquidate  the bond was not unsuitable.
He says Coutts had previously affirmed  the suitability of the bond  for him; that its 
claim about the bond being too risky conflicts with the fact that his risk profile had not 
changed; and, if it was too risky for him in 2016  it should have been took risky for him 
at the outset in 2010. The 2016  advice in the IR is what features in the present 
complaint, so it is beyond the scope of this decision to determine whether any 
previous advice affirming suitability of the AXA bond was wrong.  If I had concluded 
that liquidation of the bond was wrong, reference to any such previous suitability 
affirmation might have lent support to that conclusion  but that is not my conclusion. 
The same  applies to the recommendation in 2010. Mr M has confirmed  he is not 
complaining about  suitability/unsuitability of the bond in 2010. As I explained above, it 
is the change  in Mr Ms objective  not necessarily his risk profile  that appears to 
have prompted  the recommendation to liquidate the bond and prompted reference to 
the bond being too risky. In the context of wealth preservation, having  reached a 
targeted level of growth and in an attempt  to ringfence gains, continuing exposure of 
an investment (and its gains) to market  movements  and market  risk can reasonably 
be viewed as too risky.
He says the recommendation relied on complex  tax considerations, so Coutts should 
have ensured he received  tax advice or should  not have made the recommendation 
(or allowed the recommendation to be implemented). I have concluded above that  
Mr M agreed, without  coercion, the recommendation and agreed  to implement it; that 
it was his responsibility to seek  and obtain the tax advice the IR repeatedly  told him 
to seek and obtain; and that Coutts  was not responsible for monitoring whether (or 
Ref: DRN113124019not) he took that advice before implementing the recommendation. I retain  these 
views. Many,  if not most,  investment recommendations have tax implications and it is 
common and accepted for advisory firms to go as far as to highlight potential  tax 
implications in a recommendation but to go no further  and instead, to direct  the 
client to take professional  tax advice. This is what Coutts did and I do not agree that 
it was wrong to make the recommendation simply because the recommendation had 
tax implications that it could not advice on. 
The TPS
Coutts reference to a consolidation element within the complainants objective  in 2016 finds 
notable support from the following statement from their complaint related email to Coutts  in 
April 2018  In the course of our discussions we were led to believe we were simply 
aggregating our assets to make your job of managing them  easier. Furthermore,  and as 
previously mentioned, this objective was presented in the IR and was not disputed  at the 
time. The subject matters for consolidation were as set out in the background section above 
 that is, the complainants respective pension arrangements, the AXA bond, the DIM 
portfolio and the equities portfolio.
Coutts proposal to achieve  the above  objective  was to put in place arrangements for the 
discretionary management of the complainants assets. Mr M is correct in his argument 
about the WMS already  having discretionary asset management within  it. I have verified the 
terms for the WMS and it covered the provision of advice and discretionary asset 
management. I have  not seen evidence  of advice from the investment providers that the 
complainants claim, and such an arrangement  is uncommon give that fund providers usually 
limit their service to that (providing the relevant investments) and usually direct investors to 
seek advice independently. 
The obvious  question, as is the basis for the complainants complaint, is why the TPS was 
recommended in addition to the WMS  given that the purpose of the TPS was also to 
provide discretionary  investment  management (which the WMS provided).
The answer does  not appear to be complex.  The IR said the OAS  (which sat in the WMS) 
was to be retained for advice; then the TPS was recommended for discretionary  asset  
management; and, overall (and based  on the balance of available evidence), this appears  to 
have been the rationale behind the recommendation(s). 
There was a duplication of the discretionary asset management service between the WMS 
and the TPS. However, the former  included an advisory service whereas the latter did not. 
Available evidence  is that the WMS was recommended,  to couple the TPS, in order to 
ensure the complainants had, or retained, an advisory service. Without the WMS, they would 
have had only discretionary  asset management through the TPS.
Another obvious question that follows is why the TPS was recommended at all, given that 
discretionary asset management was already a part of the WMS, which  provided that and 
advice. Evidence suggests  that the TPS was a relatively new product at Coutts at the time; 
and that it provided  a better version  of discretionary asset management than the WMS; and 
that, in the course of Coutts  discussions with the complainants, the complainants found it 
appealing. I have not just accepted Coutts description in this respect, I have seen 
correspondence from the complainants in May 2016  which displayed their interest  in the 
service, and which sought Coutts additional  explanation  of how it worked in practice. In 
Ref: DRN113124020contrast, I have not seen evidence in which they dismissed and rejected the idea of the TPS 
because they considered  themselves satisfied  with the WMS.
I acknowledge that a duplication of service does not become suitable  only because the 
relevant clients show  interest in the new proposed service. Having  and paying twice for  a 
duplicated discretionary management service, regardless of any improvements in the TPS 
over the WMS, would  potentially have been unsuitable for the complainants.  However, 
Coutts appears to have  foreseen  this and I do not consider its solution  to have been 
unreasonable.
Coutts essentially isolated the OAS  from within the WMS and adjusted the fees/charges in 
order to reflect the duplication and to try to neutralise it. This did not mean the new proposal 
was not more expensive for the complainants. It was, but not unreasonably so. The effect 
was set out in the IR and was set out, in simplified form, in the email from Coutts of 12 May 
2016 that Mr M referred to. He is correct  in asserting that this email conveyed  the message 
that advice was included in the TPS. However,  on balance and mindful of the fact that this 
email was sent in response to the complainants  request for a simplified summary of the 
matter, I consider that it was an over simplification  of what the IR had set out.
The email  confirmed that the management fees the complainants previously faced was 
around 1.2%  but with the proposed TPS the fees would be around  1.8%.  The IR confirmed 
that this was 1.85%. The IR also confirmed fees related to the WMS but with express 
reference to only the OAS  element  of the WMS. In this respect  it said the fees were  at a flat 
rate of 0.2%  (plus VAT). Evidence shows that this had been discounted from 0.8%  in order 
to reflect  the complainants  undertaking  of the TPS. I am satisfied that this was a discount  
that also reasonably  addressed the duplication mentioned above. 
In other  words, despite what was, strictly speaking, a duplication of discretionary asset 
management services  the reality,  in practice,  appears  to have been that the complaints  
received what appears to have been  the comparatively better TPS; they received the 
advisory element  (the OAS) of the WMS; they paid for the TPS; and they paid a discounted 
fee for the OAS element of the WMS.  Overall  and on balance, I do not consider that this was 
an unreasonable arrangement and the TPS recommendation was not unsuitable.  Given this 
finding, and as the recommendation was not unsuitable, it follows that it did not adversely 
affect the complainants, so any conflict of interests  that is alleged  to have existed within  the 
recommendation was managed enough to avoid an adverse effect  upon  them.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold the complaint  from Mr M and Mr S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 July 2021.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1131240