K820x#14complaint
Mr R says he asked Barclays Bank UK Plc to close his account, but they didnt do this. A 
direct debit was taken from his account, which took it overdrawn.  Barclays added  interest  
and fees to the overdraft, put the account  into default and then passed it to a debt collector.
background
Mr R says he asked Barclays to close his account  in 2004. He made a payment to Barclays 
to clear his overdrawn  balance on 9 November. But interest charges on the overdrawn 
balance took the account overdrawn again  the following day. Mr Rs the insurance  company 
then took a payment from his account  on 17 November  2004 which  took it further overdrawn, 
even though Mr R had asked them to change  his direct debit.
Barclays charged Mr R interest on the overdraft.  In 2014 Barclays stopped charging interest 
and started charging  a 75 pence daily fee. By November 2017,  Mr Rs overdraft limit had 
been exceeded and Barclays sent him a termination notice in March  2018. They  also passed 
his account to a debt collector.
Barclays had had post returned  from Mr Rs address in June 2004.  As a precaution to 
protect his personal  data being intercepted they stopped  sending  him any letters. Because  of 
this Barclays didnt  write to Mr R between 2004  and 2018, when they sent the termination 
notice  Barclays were required to send this to the last known address regardless of any 
post thatd been returned in the past.
Mr R has complained that:
He hadnt  moved  away and was living at the address Barclays had on their records 
for the whole  time. He believes  Barclays had no reason  to stop sending him letters,  
and they couldve  easily  contacted  him, but chose not to.
He didnt receive the termination notice, and says if he had he wouldve contacted 
Barclays immediately. He says Barclays didnt contact him and he didnt know  there 
was a problem  until the debt collector  contacted him.
Barclays didnt close his account  in 2004, and he believed it was closed because  he 
didnt receive any correspondence.
He was refused  credit  because a default was applied to his credit file.
He didnt have  an overdraft facility of £1,120, and he wouldnt have chosen  an 
overdraft of a figure that wasnt round.
The debt was Barclays  fault and had he been  told about the November 2004 direct  
debit he would have  cleared this and no interest wouldve been charged.
To resolve  Mr Rs complaint Barclays wrote off the overdraft  all of the interest/charges and 
the payment they made to the insurance  company on Mr Rs behalf in 2004   and amended 
his credit file to remove the default. They also offered Mr R £200 for the trouble and upset 
hed been caused. Our investigator felt this was reasonable in all of the circumstances,  and 
she didnt think they should do anything more.  She also sent Mr R proof  of his overdraft limit 
and a copy of the termination letter.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator and asked  for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. He said she hadnt understood  his complaints, and clarified these. I have listed  
the clarified complaints above.
Ref: DRN12750702my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
account closure
Mr R says he asked Barclays to close his account  in November 2004, but they didnt do this. 
Because of the time thats passed,  Barclays dont hold any records and Mr R has no 
evidence that he asked them to cancel. I wouldnt expect there to be evidence from so long 
ago. Looking at Mr Rs account history, its reasonable to conclude  he wanted  to close his 
account because  he paid off his overdrawn balance on 9 November 2004. But he didnt pay 
enough to cover the interest charged on this. Because  of this, whether hed asked Barclays  
to close the account or not, they couldnt because  there was still an overdrawn balance.
For this reason I think it was reasonable the account  was not closed in 2004.
gone away marker
Financial businesses have an obligation  to protect  their customers data. Barclays say they 
had post returned from Mr Rs address, although  they no longer have records  to show what  
post. Putting  a gone away marker on an account when post is returned is reasonable as 
this would stop further post being sent.  This would stop personal  data being  potentially sent 
to the wrong person. In the circumstances I think Barclays acted reasonably  by doing this to 
Mr Rs account. And I think on balance that it was likely there was post returned for Barclays 
to have taken  this action in the first place.
Its unfortunate this happened around the same time as Mr R believed  his account has been 
closed. This meant that, because he wasnt expecting anything  from Barclays, he didnt 
notice anything wrong when he wasnt getting any post from them. But this doesnt mean 
that Barclays were wrong to mark his account  as gone away  and stop sending  him 
correspondence.
overdraft facility
Mr R says he wouldnt have asked for an overdraft of £1,120 as this is an unusual  amount. I 
agree that this is unusual, but Barclays have  their own rules for agreeing overdraft limits.  
Because of this, the overdraft offered may not be the overdraft asked for. While £1,120 may 
not have been an amount Mr R wouldve asked for, it was the amount that Barclays  applied 
to his account. Mr R has been  provided  with proof of this, and I cant  say Barclays  have done 
something wrong by offering an unusual overdraft  limit.
credit file
Mr R says he was declined credit  because of Barclays, but hasnt provided any evidence  of 
this. He exceeded his overdraft limit in November 2017, and Barclays say they defaulted  him 
in March 2018. Barclays also say they removed the default in July 2018. Because of this, 
there wouldve been an adverse entry on Mr Rs credit file from March to July 2018, and 
maybe from November 2017 to March 2018 (I dont have a copy  of the credit  file to look at).
But, there are a number  of factors that make up a credit file. Because  of this, I cannot say 
the only reason  Mr R was turned down credit  was because he was overdrawn with Barclays.
Ref: DRN12750703I agree  it wouldve come  as a shock to Mr R to find out that an account he thought had been 
closed in 2004 was still open and had a large overdrawn balance.  But I also agree that 
Barclays writing  off this overdraft, changing  Mr Rs credit file and offering  him £200 for the 
trouble and upset  this caused was reasonable. Because of this, I wont  be asking Barclays  to 
do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Barclays Bank  UK 
Plc. It is Mr Rs choice  to accept the £200 that has been offered or not.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1275070