K820x#14complaint
Mr S believes AIG Life Limited has treated  him unfairly by declining his claim and voiding his 
critical illness insurance policy.  
background
Mr S took out a critical  illness insurance  policy with AIG through  a broker  in May 2018.  As 
part of the application he was asked:
Have you been referred to, or been  to see, any medical practitioner other than your GP in 
the last 5 years? 
Mr S answered yes and said he had been  referred for degenerative discs.  He also 
disclosed to AIG his anxiety which was diagnosed  in January 2017.  He then answered no 
to the following questions:  
Have you had any problems with your ears, hearing  or balance in the last 5 years?
Apart from in connection  to a condition youve already mentioned have you visited  your GP 
in the last two years?
He later signed a declaration confirming the information provided with the cover  summary 
and the application was true, complete and accurate to the best of his knowledge and belief. 
And that he understood that failure  to notify  AIG of any incorrect or missing  information may 
lead to the policy being cancelled and any claim not being paid.  
AIG then sent a copy of the application  to Mr S in May 2018  asking  him to contact it if any of 
the information was inaccurate. It also reminded him that if there was any inaccurate 
information it could  mean  it wont pay out on any claim  in the future. 
Cover started on 16 May 2018. Unfortunately Mr S had to make a claim for Total Permanent  
Disability (TPD)  under this policy in October 2018.  AIG requested  information from Mr Ss 
GP. It considered this in line with Mr Ss statements  and information he provided from his 
GP. 
In early January  2019 AIG decided to reject the claim and void the policy due to the 
misrepresentation of material information by Mr S at the point of sale. AIG said if he hadnt  
misrepresented it wouldnt  have offered him cover. So it returned his premiums totalling 
£247.59 and cancelled the policy from the point of sale.  
Mr S complained saying  he felt he correctly represented his medical history so his policy 
should be reinstated. 
AIG sent a final response letter on 20 March 2019. It felt Mr S should  have told it about 
tremors he was having, and the subsequent prescription of Gabapentin he had in August  
2013. It also said tremors were noted in a number  of his medical records. And although 
Mr Ss GP had said the Gabapentin  was prescribed for back  pain, AIG felt the neurologists  
letter to the GP confirmed  the tremors  were improving under this drug. 
AIG also felt the medical records showed  Mr S should have disclosed he had problems with 
his ears,  hearing  or balance  in the last five years. It noted hed had an MRI in May 2016 as a 
Ref: DRN13681812result of slurring speech and a balance problem. And he had seen his GP for headaches and 
dizzy spells  in the two years  before  taking  out the policy.  
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He said the questions  he was asked werent  
clear. And the Gabapentin was prescribed to help his back. He also said the balance issue  
started in 2013  as a result  of his back issues. He felt there were contradictions  by AIG when 
relying on the medical evidence in relation to his visit to a neurologist in 2013 so this 
shouldnt have been relied  upon.  Mr S said he didnt declare the balance  problems  because  
it wasnt a separate  issue to the degenerative disc condition he declared  in his application. 
And he hadnt visited a GP two years  before  taking  out this policy for anything other than the 
conditions he had disclosed.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint but decided  to not uphold  it. He felt Mr S had been 
medically investigated for a tremor so he should  have told AIG about this. And he thought  
the Gabapentin was most likely for his tremors.  He was also satisfied  the problems with 
Mr Ss balance,  speech, headaches and dizzy spells should  have been disclosed as well. 
The investigator said the questions at the point of sale were  clear both in written  form and in 
the call. So, he thought  AIG was correct  to void this policy  and refund Mr Ss premiums.  
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said the tremors had been present 
since birth and so they werent being investigated.  He maintained the Gabapentin wasnt 
prescribed for this. He also mentioned he hadnt had any issues  with his hearing or ears and 
that balance issues  are linked to weak muscle  tone from birth so this should be excluded 
from the five year question asked  at the point  of sale. He felt he was being treated  unfairly  
and because his anxiety falls under the Equality Act 2010 this should be taken into 
consideration by AIG when assessing  the claim.
So the case has now been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  Mr S has provided a lot of 
information and points as to why he thinks he didnt misrepresent his medical conditions and 
to show there were issues with the questions he was asked. Having considered  these, Im 
not going to uphold it.  I know  this will come as a big disappointment to him so Id like to 
explain my reasons.
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding  approach  to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and insurer  when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA  places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading),  provided 
the insurer has asked  a clear question. If the consumer  doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions  accurately, CIDRA  sets out the remedies available  to the insurer.
So the issues for me to consider are whether Mr S has misrepresented when taking out this 
policy. And if so AIG needs to show it wouldnt have offered the policy  at all or on different 
terms.
was there  a misrepresentation in relation to Mr Ss tremor, dizziness and balance? 
Ref: DRN13681813I know Mr S thinks the questions werent  clear. But having listening to the call and reviewed 
the application, Im satisfied the questions were  sufficiently  clear to allow him to answer them 
correctly. AIG wanted to know  about any medical practitioner Mr S had seen and any 
problems he had with his balance in the last five years. And Im satisfied there were also 
clear and suitable warnings about  the failure to answer these questions correctly  both during 
and after the sale. So I believe  AIG sufficiently brought these to his attention. 
Having reviewed the medical records  Im also satisfied Mr S didnt answer  the questions  
correctly. A letter from a consultant in August 2013 diagnoses a possible essential tremor. 
This consultation took place within five years of the inception of the policy.  Although Mr S 
said hed had the tremors since birth,  he was still experiencing the tremors and saw a 
medical practitioner about them  within five years of taking out the policy. So, Im satisfied he 
should have disclosed  this in response to the question about whether hed been referred to, 
or been to see, any medical practitioner other  than his GP in the last 5 years.
The records  also show Mr S was referred in February 2016 for an MRI which  took place in 
May 2016. He was referred due to worsening  slurring speech and balance issues.  Although 
there was no formal diagnosis at this point, the GP notes said in June 2018 there were 
longstanding headaches and dizzy  spells  which had been ongoing for many months. So Im 
satisfied Mr S should have mentioned this when  he was asked  if he had visited  his GP in the 
last two years in relation to any condition. 
What would AIG have  done differently?
AIG has treated the misrepresentation as careless.  Im not satisfied Mr S deliberately or 
recklessly misrepresented his medical history. So I believe its appropriate to categorise  
Mr Ss actions  as careless here. And under  CIDRA,  when its found  a consumer has made a 
careless misrepresentation, AIG can take whatever action it would have  taken if the correct 
answers had been given  at the point of application. Based on what we know  about Mr Ss 
tremors, AIG has provided its underwriting criteria which shows if it was made aware  of the 
tremors, dizziness and balance issues then it wouldnt have offered him any cover  at all. So I 
consider its decision  to void the policy  and refund the premiums Mr S paid was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, and in line with what  CIDRA sets out.
conclusion
I note Mr S has raised concerns about AIG not taking into account the Equality Act when 
assessing the claim. But I agree with the investigator that the issue  here is to consider 
whether Mr S made  any misrepresentations at the point of sale.  Having done so, I think he 
should have provided more information to AIG based upon the questions he was asked. He 
also had the opportunity to review the questions and answers he gave when  these were  sent 
to him. If he wasnt sure about the questions either during the call or when he received them  
Im satisfied he had the opportunity to clarify these with the broker or AIG. So, I dont think 
AIG has treated him unfairly  by declining the claim and cancelling  the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Ref: DRN13681814Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1368181