K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application made by Mr and Mrs H to 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to buy a commercial property. The mortgage fell through  after Mr H 
realised that Barclays required,  as additional  security, a guarantee and debenture from the 
directors of the limited company that tenanted  the mortgaged property. Thats  left 
Mr and Mrs H with abortive legal costs, and many months of wasted time. Both applicants 
have joined the complaint,  but all of our dealings have been with Mr H.
background
Mr and Mrs H live in a residential  property  Ill call P1; they also own a buy-to-let property  Ill 
call P2.  Adjacent  to P1 is a commercial property Ill call P3.  The tenant of P3 was a 
limited company Ill call K. K has two directors, one of which is Mrs H. In late 2017, 
Mr and Mrs H approached  a mortgage broker wanting to obtain a mortgage to buy P3. The 
broker, whom  Ill call B, sourced a commercial  mortgage with Barclays,  and Barclays 
issued an offer in May 2018. As security for the mortgage, Barclays required legal charges 
over P1 and P2, plus an unlimited guarantee from K backed by a debenture over Ks assets. 
Mr H objected, albeit  not immediately, saying  the intention from the outset  was for the 
mortgage to be a buy-to-let, and for K simply to be the tenant with no connection to the 
lending. Barclays explained  that it didnt provide commercial buy-to-let mortgages, and 
refunded the valuation  fees but Mr H wasnt satisfied. He said the banks actions had 
undermined trust between him and his wifes fellow director, who thought  hed been trying  to 
use Ks assets to borrow money. Hed also lost interest from having the deposit funds - 
£40,000  on instant access.  
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint; it said, in essence, that it had done  what it had been 
asked to do; that is, offer a commercial mortgage. Mr H saw this as the bank putting the 
blame on B, and referred the complaint  to us. We then asked Mrs H to join the complaint, 
which she duly did. 
The case-handler to whom the complaint was allocated  didnt think Barclays had done  
anything wrong. Mr H has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Although he doesnt yet own P3, Mr H has said he rents it from the vendor and then sublets 
it, and that K has now moved out apparently  owing him around £2,000 of unpaid  rent. He 
says this has put pressure on his marriage  as Mrs H has to arbitrate between  her husband 
and fellow  director.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round.
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, and we 
Ref: DRN17349412dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone  else.
Mrs H has joined in the complaint because our rules require all eligible complainants do so; 
but I appreciate  its a difficult situation  for her to be in; torn between two conflicting positions. 
Mr H has said it wasnt his job to define  the desired mortgage as buy-to-let; he was relying 
on B and Barclays to determine  what the correct mortgage type should  be. Im afraid Mr H 
has slightly mis-directed himself. 
When a lender receives a mortgage  application via an intermediary, its not required to 
duplicate the intermediarys role. As Mr and Mrs Hs advisor, it was Bs responsibility to 
consider their needs and circumstances, and then arrange  the most suitable  mortgage for 
them. Barclays role was to decide  if and on what terms it was willing  to lend;  its that simple.  
Barclays had already emailed a decision  in principle to Mr H in December 2017,  alongside  a 
factsheet for a commercial mortgage.  Subsequently,  having assessed the formal application 
and concluded  that it was willing to lend, Barclays set out the terms in its offer dated 
12 May 2018. That offer included the condition requiring a guarantee from K, backed by a 
debenture over its assets.
It was then for Mr and Mrs H, with input from B if need be, to decide  if Barclays  terms were 
suitable and met their needs and requirements. It seems that as late as 23 August 2018, 
Mr H had no qualms about the terms of the mortgage Barclays  had offered.  He said as much 
in an email replying to the bank following a change of relationship manager. I also note that 
in the email Mr H was replying to, the relationship manager specifically referred to the 
mortgage as commercial.
As far as I can tell from the banks  internal  records, the first expression  of dissatisfaction  
came in October 2018. Its not evident  why it took so long for Mr and Mrs H to realise  this 
wasnt the mortgage they wanted, but I cant  fairly  find that its down to any shortcoming on 
Barclays part. 
Mr and Mrs H should draw no inferences  from anything I say here about whether they should 
complain separately to B, or what the outcome would be if they did. What I can say is that if 
they did complain  to B and werent  happy  with any response they received, Mr and Mrs H 
would not then be able to refer that complaint to us. Advice on commercial  and/or buy-to-let 
mortgages isnt a regulated activity and doesnt fall within the remit of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Ref: DRN17349413my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint, or make  
any order or award against Barclays Bank  UK PLC. My final decision  concludes this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1734941