K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that unauthorised payments were  taken  from his credit card account with 
Clydesdale Bank  Plc to pay for a card protection insurance policy.
During this complaint Mr J was represented by a third party. For ease  of reading, all 
references to Mr J include the actions of his representative. 
background
Mr J took out a credit card with Clydesdale in 2002.  In 2011 he received a letter asking if he 
wanted to renew  his policy  with a company I will refer to as Company S. He didnt  recognise  
the policy so called  Company S to cancel it. 
He also complained to Clydesdale  for allowing payments to go to Company S that he hadnt  
authorised from his credit card. Clydesdale responded  to say that it had found no evidence  
that payments  had been taken from any of Mr Js accounts for payment protection  insurance  
(PPI). 
In 2018 Mr J made a subject access request  (SAR) to get all the information Clydesdale held 
on him. As part of the response he was provided with account  statements.  Mr J identified  
payments that had been made to Company S, that he said he hadnt authorised.  
It also provided him with a copy of the original  credit agreement for the card.  This offered the 
option to purchase  card protection  insurance (CPI)  with Company S. But the document 
showed he hadnt selected  this option when he took the card out. He made a further 
complaint to Clydesdale, explaining his complaint was not about  PPI payments as it had 
originally investigated.  But, was about unauthorised payments of any kind to Company S. He 
also complained  that Clydesdale  had refused  to deal with his representative, even though it 
had a signed mandate to authorise his involvement.
Clydesdale responded to say that the policy wasnt set up at the point the account  was 
opened in 2002, when  the credit agreement was issued. It was set up in 2006 and cancelled 
in 2010. It explained that there had been a compensation scheme established by the FCA to 
deal with complaints  about the sale of these policies. Eligible customers  were  contacted  
about the scheme. However, this scheme  closed in 2016 so Mr Js complaint is now time 
barred and Clydesdale isnt permitted to look at it. Clydesdale accepted it had made  a 
mistake by not speaking  to Mr Js representative  when  he called and apologised for this.
Mr J wasnt happy with Clydesdales response. He said he hadnt received any letters  about  
the scheme so wouldnt have  been able to make  a claim. He said he never  agreed to the 
policy and wasnt aware he had it until 2011 when  he received a letter  about  renewal.  He 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  recommend the complaint was upheld.  
He said that we are only able to assess whether the rules of the redress  scheme were 
applied correctly, and he was satisfied that they were in this case. Mr J didnt agree with this 
as he maintains he didnt receive the letters relating to the scheme.  He asked for the 
complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN13603912my findings
In 2015, the financial services  regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA),  agreed  a 
redress scheme to compensate consumers, like Mr J, with card protection policies. As our 
investigator explained, the scheme  broadly required businesses like Clydesdale to return  
premiums paid on or after 14 January 2005  to consumers  who made a claim before a certain  
date. The scheme  was approved by the High Court.
Mr J has said that he thinks the policy was set up when he took out the card in 2002. 
However from the evidence Ive seen, payments were  only taken from Mr Js account from 
2006. Although  Clydesdale  are unable to confirm how the policy was sold,  it has said sales 
usually take place over the phone. It suggested this could have taken place during an 
activation call for a new card in 2006.  Although it isnt possible to know exactly  how or when  
the policy was sold, based on the fact the payments started in 2006 I think  it is most likely 
that this is when the policy began. Even if it wasnt, there is no evidence  any payments were  
made before this, so redress would only apply from 2006. I am therefore satisfied that Mr Js 
policy was fully covered  by the redress scheme.
The FCA also decided  as it can when theres  a redress scheme  that the ombudsman 
service should follow  the rules of the scheme when deciding complaints about  sales  of 
policies that wouldve been covered by it. 
This means  that I cant consider the circumstances around the sale of the policy. I can only 
consider whether the rules  of the scheme were followed correctly.  
The scheme rules say Claim Forms  must be received by the Scheme Administrators on or 
before the Bar Date. If a Claim Form is received after the Bar Date, the Claim Form will be 
rejected or be deemed rejectedand the Scheme Creditor [Mr J in this case] shall have no 
right to Redress. So claims  had to be made by the bar date which  was 18 March 2016.  
Although there was a later bar date of 19 September 2016 if one of the exceptional 
circumstances listed in the rules applied.
In this case a claim was not received  by Mr J before the date.  He has said that this is 
because he didnt receive any letters regarding the scheme.  He has given various 
explanations for why this might have been.  Including that his name has been  spelt wrong so 
he wouldnt  have opened any letters.  He also said he wouldnt have recognised the company  
so he may have disregarded the letters. Finally, he said that the address held by the scheme 
wasnt the correct  address at the time the policy  is said to have been sold,  which  leads him 
to believe the evidence is fabricated.  
The scheme has provided screenshots to show the details it held for Mr J as well as the 
dates the letters were sent to him. The administrators of the scheme  have explained that the 
screenshots show the system that was set up specifically for the scheme,  rather  than their 
own internal systems. This means  the information  was gathered specifically for this purpose. 
Mr J has raised  concerns about the validity of the information contained in the screenshots.  
In particular he says it must be fabricated because  the address  shown is Mr Js current 
address, which  he did not live at between 2006  and 2010 when the policy was active. 
Company S has confirmed that when the scheme  was set up, soft credit checks  were  done 
to ensure they had the most up to date information about individuals. So this wasnt  
necessarily the address  the policy was set up under.  As the address displayed  in the 
screenshots is the correct address for Mr J when the letters were sent, I am satisfied that 
this information  is reliable. 
Ref: DRN13603913In regards to the spelling of Mr Js name, the name connected to the scheme is the same 
spelling as the name  on all his Clydesdale bank  accounts. It also matches the spelling of 
Mr Js name  on his passport which he provided  a copy of as part of our processes. So I am 
satisfied this information is also correct.
The screenshots also show that the three letters  required under the scheme  were  sent to 
this address at different dates  throughout  2015. Although this doesnt prove that the letters 
arrived or were received,  in my experience this information reliably  shows  that the letters 
were dispatched. 
I appreciate Mr J says he may have  disregarded the letters  as he didnt recognise the 
company. The scheme rules state  Any notice  given under the Scheme by the Scheme 
Administrators to any person shall be sufficiently served  by posting the same by first class  
(or equivalent) or airmail post to or leaving  the same at the address  of such  person last 
known to [the policy administrator]. There isnt a requirement for the documentation to be 
received. And in fact, the rules explicitly say The Bar Date will apply  to all Scheme Creditors  
irrespective of whether  or not they receive  actual written notice of the Scheme.
I am therefore satisfied  that the rules  of the scheme were followed in this case. I understand 
Mr J feels that the sales process was unfair  and he hadnt realised  he had a card protection  
policy. However I am unable to consider  the sale of the policy  and whether Clydesdale  acted  
fairly during this. I can only consider  the rules of the scheme. 
Finally, I understand  Mr J was unhappy that Clydesdale  initially refused to speak to his 
representative about the case  even  though  he had provided a signed mandate.  I appreciate  
this would have  been inconvenient however Clydesdale accepted its mistake and 
apologised, and I think this is sufficient. 
For all these reasons I dont uphold Mr Js complaint and will not require  Clydesdale  to do 
anything differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1360391