K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about the amount of compensation MBNA Limited, offered following a 
complaint about  a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy taken  out by Mr T in 2008.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
MBNA got due to the PPI. I am unable to consider  how the policy  was sold as Im satisfied 
the complaint  wasnt brought in time.  So Ive only looked at whether  the offer MBNA has 
made is fair.  
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
MBNA said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create an unfair  
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr T paid each  month 
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr T for the time they were  out of pocket. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Ts particular complaint and 
circumstances that means MBNA should do something different to put right the unfairness 
caused by not telling them about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. But 
MBNA has done what the rules it must follow tell it to do, so I dont think there is. I think the 
offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve  this complaint. So I wont be telling MBNA to 
do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above I think MBNA  Limited  has correctly worked out what it needs  to pay 
Mr T. 
MBNA Limited should update and pay its offer to Mr T if it hasnt  done  so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.  
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1645144