K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain they were mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs H already  had a mortgage.  They  were  coming to the end of an interest rate 
product. They  took advice  from L&G,  and re-mortgaged to another  lender, consolidating 
unsecured debt as they did so.
Mr and Mrs H are represented  by a claims management company, which  says the mortgage  
advice was unsuitable. The CMC says that Mr and Mrs H were able to maintain their monthly  
payments and could  have  taken a new interest rate from their existing lender. If they did 
need to move mortgage, L&G didnt  recommend the cheapest one available. The broker 
charged them excessive  fees, including fees for a legal service they didnt need. And it 
received commission  from solicitors it recommended,  without  declaring  that to Mr and Mrs H.
L&G offered  to refund the commission  and pay £100 compensation, which  the CMC 
accepted. Our adjudicator thought that, overall,  a suitable recommendation had been made, 
but he didnt think  all of the debt needed  to be consolidated. Mr and Mrs Hs representative 
didnt agree, so the case comes to me for a decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H took a part repayment, part interest  only mortgage. Their representative 
doesnt take issue with this, and the fact find records  they had endowment  policies projected  
to reach  more than the interest only element. So theres no evidence  the overall type of 
mortgage was unsuitable. 
Mr and Mrs H had significant  unsecured debt  including credit cards,  store cards and an 
overdraft as well as a loan. They were paying around £800  per month to their unsecured 
debt, which  contributed to their outgoings  exceeding  their income  by £200 per month. In total 
they consolidated around £30,000 of unsecured debt. One interest free kitchen loan was left 
unconsolidated.
I think the level of their debt  and the amount it was costing them  each month  showed 
that they had a real need to re-mortgage. While its true that it generally  costs more to add 
unsecured debt to a mortgage  because interest is added over a much longer term  thats 
not always the case with large  credit card debts  where only the minimum is paid each 
month. And in this case,  I think  the real need  was to reduce Mr and Mrs Hs monthly  
outgoings, and the other  consequences  of debt consolidation  were a price  worth paying to 
achieve that.
However, I agree with the adjudicator that it doesnt  follow that because some debt needed 
to be consolidated, all debt needed to be. The broker didnt include the kitchen loan,  for 
example. And I think it would have been  right to leave the overdraft out too, since  it was a 
relatively low amount, and with the savings made from consolidation  Mr and Mrs H would 
have had no further need for it and could  have cleared it within a few months  around eight 
Ref: DRN12228872at the most. So, to that extent and that extent only, I dont think the debt consolidation 
recommendation was suitable. I think L&G should refund the interest  theyve been  charged 
on the consolidated overdraft  though  not the overdraft amount itself, since  they would 
always had to pay that off. Mr and Mrs H can use the interest refund, if they choose, to 
reduce the mortgage balance to mitigate  the effect of having  consolidated the overdraft.  
As for the lender L&G selected, I note that Mr and Mrs H needed  to borrow considerably 
more money. Although  the recommended lender didnt have the cheapest  products 
available, it allowed self-certification mortgages at high income ratios  and that was what  
Mr and Mrs H needed to raise enough  money to make the debt consolidation worthwhile.
Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs H were told at the time, and I think the various fees were  
clearly set out to them. While L&Gs representative wasnt  the cheapest broker  on the 
market, it offered a service to Mr and Mrs H that they were prepared  to pay for at the time. 
Its not for me to set the price of broking  services,  and I dont  think  the fees charged  were so 
unreasonable that fairness demands I interfere. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  Legal & General Partnership 
Services Ltd has made a fair and reasonable offer in respect of the commission. In addition,  
it should refund to Mr and Mrs H the mortgage interest charged on the consolidated 
overdraft, running from eight months  of completion  of the mortgage  to the date of refund, 
less the interest  Mr and Mrs H would have  paid had the overdraft been paid off in 8 equal  
instalments.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1222887