K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Candour Independent  Financial Advisers Ltd gave them  
unsuitable advice  with regards to their pensions. 
At the time of the advice Candour  Independent Financial Advisers Ltd was an appointed 
representative of Sesame Limited which  means they are responsible for the advice  given 
and for responding to this complaint. In my decision Ill refer to Sesame for ease of reading.
background
Mr and Mrs S both held with-profits pension policies which  included  guaranteed annuity  
rates. In 2008  Sesame recommended them to transfer their respective policies to a different 
policy with another  pension  provider.  The pension values  were invested into a mixture of 
different funds with a higher degree of risk but which had performed better than their old 
policies in the previous few years. Mr Ss policy had a transfer  value of £23,866  and Mrs Ss 
policy had a transfer value of £2,737.
At the time of the advice in 2008,  Mr S was 59 years  old, self-employed  and earned £1,500  
per month. He also had another  small occupational  pension. Mrs S was 56 years  old and 
unemployed. The couple had no dependants. 
In 2012 Mr and Mrs S met with the same adviser  again. Mr S says until that point he had 
thought he had to wait until 65 before he could retire, but was then informed by the adviser  
he could take benefits earlier. So Mr S decided  to take his benefits in 2012 at the age of 63. 
Both Mr and Mrs S were  unemployed  at that point. Their income  included  pension credit  and 
a small occupational pension for Mr S and state  pension benefits and a small industrial injury  
payment for Mrs S. Mr S received a tax free cash lump sum and with the rest of the pension 
fund he bought an annuity, paid monthly  in advance, without escalation,  a 10 year guarantee 
and a 50% spouses pension.
Mrs S had cashed in her policy  earlier that year under triviality rules when she turned 60. 
She received around £2,800.
In 2013 Sesame recommended a lifetime mortgage to Mr and Mrs S for them  to release 
equity from their property to consolidate  their outstanding mortgage and debts and reduce 
their monthly outgoings. They had an interest  only mortgage at the time ending in 2016  
which they didnt  have a repayment  vehicle for. However,  Mr and Mrs S didnt enter  into 
this arrangement.
In 2015 Mr and Mrs S contacted their pension provider to enquire about Mr Ss pension 
policy. They  were told the policy  had ended in 2012 when Mr S had taken a tax free cash 
sum and had bought an annuity.  
Mr and Mrs S say the advice they received from Sesame wasnt  in their best interest. They  
lost valuable guarantees when they transferred their pensions in 2008. And they say in 2012, 
when Mr S took his pension benefits,  they were led to believe they would still have a pension  
pot to cover  their outstanding mortgage balance. They also think  the adviser should have 
told them  that taking  an annuity would impact  on their benefit payments.
Ref: DRN18260272When Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage came to an end they didnt have the funds to pay the 
balance and in 2018 the bank started  repossession proceedings. Mr and Mrs S say 
Sesames adviser knew  about their circumstances and that their mortgage would have been 
a priority. They received limited  advice on their pension in 2008  and 2012  but say they 
needed unrestricted financial advice making  sure their mortgage  was covered. They say 
they didnt need another  small  annuity  income  in 2012, but would have  needed a pot of 
money to pay off the mortgage when the term ended.
They are also unhappy that they were recommended an equity release scheme in 2013 
which would have cost them  a considerable amount in interest and charges if they had 
entered into it.
Sesame agreed that the advice to transfer  Mr and Mrs Ss policies in 2008 wasnt suitable in 
their circumstances. So they agreed  to calculate  any losses the couple suffered by the 
transfer. However, as Mr and Mrs S had accessed  their pension benefits early,  Sesame  
thought they would have  done the same if they had stayed in their previous pension policies. 
And they said the guaranteed annuity  rates in their previous policies were only applicable at 
the age of 65. 
So in their calculations  they didnt take into account the guaranteed annuity rates. Sesame 
compared the values of Mr and Mrs Ss old policies with their new policies in 2012 (when 
they took their benefits) and found that the new policies had in fact performed slightly better. 
So without using  any guaranteed annuity  rates, they found the couple had not suffered any 
financial loss by transferring their pensions.
Sesame also recognised that an equity  release scheme would have been an expensive 
option for Mr and Mrs S and not the appropriate recommendation. However, as the couple 
didnt go through  with this scheme,  Sesame  couldnt  see that Mr and Mrs S had suffered any 
losses in this regard.  But they said they would compensate the couple for any expenses they 
incurred in relation to this advice if they provided any evidence.  Sesame also acknowledged  
that this matter had caused the couple  distress and inconvenience and offered them £250 
each in compensation.
Our investigator agreed that the advice to transfer in 2008  was unsuitable. However, she 
wasnt satisfied that Mr and Mrs S would have  necessarily retired early if they had stayed  in 
their previous policies.  She said taking benefits  early was only considered during a meeting 
with the adviser  in 2012 which wasnt instigated by the couple. So she thought it was more  
likely they would have  waited until age 65 to take advantage of the higher annuity rates in 
their old policies. The investigator asked Sesame to redo their calculations comparing what  
Mr and Mrs S could  have got at the age of 65 in their old policies with what  they actually 
received in 2012 and compensate them  for the past and future losses.
The investigator thought Sesames offer to cover any expenses relating  to the equity release 
scheme if evidence was provided  seemed  fair. And she also agreed with the compensation 
of £250 each for the distress the matter had caused Mr and Mrs S.
Sesame accepted the investigators opinion and recalculated  the compensation accordingly.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint, so it was passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN18260273provisional decision 
I previously issued a provisional  decision (PD) broadly agreeing with the investigator but 
thought there should be some changes to how the compensation  should  be calculated.  I 
invited both parties to provide further  comments or information.
For completeness I repeat  the finding  of my provisional decision below before I address the 
parties responses to my decision.
pension transfer  in 2008
I agree  with Sesame  and the investigator that the recommendation to transfer wasnt  
suitable for Mr and Mrs S taking into account  their circumstances at the time. They  only had 
a few years  until retirement  at that point which meant  there wouldnt have been much  time to 
make up any potential  losses  in the new policy. And they werent in a financial position  to 
take on more  risk with their pension. As all parties  seem to accept this Im not going to 
address this in further detail.
When a business  has done something wrong we look to put customers  back as much  as 
possible in the position they would have been in if the mistake  had not occurred. 
If the advice  to transfer the pension had not happened Mr and Mrs S would have still had 
their old pension policies  in 2008. However,  I then need to decide what  would have likely 
happened in the following years. This is much more difficult as nobody knows for sure what 
decisions Mr and Mrs S would  have  made  with regards to their pensions. So I have to decide 
what I think would have  happened on the balance of probability based  on the information 
I have about their circumstances.
taking benefits  in 2012
Mr and Mrs S met again with Sesame in 2012  to discuss their retirement planning.   
The documents mention that Mrs S had already taken her benefits as a lump sum under 
trivial commutation rules earlier that year after she had turned 60. Mr and Mrs S havent 
specifically complained about this and I havent  seen any evidence to suggest  she did this 
on recommendation of the adviser.  However, even if she did, I dont think she necessarily 
would have acted  differently if she had stayed in her old pension  plan.  
I dont know whether Mrs Ss guaranteed  rate would have available  from age 60 or 65. 
However, either way Im not entirely convinced that she would have chosen  to take an 
annuity in any case as her pension value  was relatively low (around £3,200) and would  have 
only provided a very small pension  per year, even with a guaranteed  rate. 
Sesames suitability letter shows the adviser  had established that the guaranteed  rate at age 
65 was 7% of the fund.  Whilst this was somewhat higher than market rates for someone of 
that age, I dont think it was as high as some other providers whose rates  can sometimes  
exceed 10%. Even at the 7% rate, after a 25% tax-free lump sum was taken from a fund of 
about £3,200 this would provide an income  of about £168 per year.  If the guaranteed rate 
was available  earlier than 65 the income would have been lower  than this.
Ref: DRN18260274The state pension  age for women historically had been 60 at the time and so I think Mrs S 
would have considered taking her benefits then. In 2012/2013  Mr and Mrs S put the lump  
sum towards  a holiday, some household items and paying off some debts. So I think  its 
likely that Mrs S would  have felt taking  a lump sum at that time was more  useful than buying  
a very small annuity or deferring her pension. 
Sesame have already  compared the lump  sum which Mrs S would have received with her 
old pension  in 2012 with the actual sum she did receive from her new pension  and Im 
satisfied that she has suffered  no financial  loss.
I now turn to the advice Mr S was given. 
I cant know what exactly was said during the meetings with the adviser. But Ive seen  the 
recommendation letter that the adviser  sent to the couple at the time. It says:
I made you aware of the gender changes coming into effect  this December that will
affect the annuity rates of pensions.. You thought you could only access this pension  at 
your retirement date of 65; however you are now aware that you could take it now, and 
wanted to look into the possibility of taking this pension and lump  sum now,  and doing some  
comparisons.
Mr S was recommended  to take the maximum cash lump sum from his existing provider and 
buy an enhanced  annuity on the open market. It looks like different annuity options  had been  
discussed and the recommendation letter also says it was explained  that adding  different 
features to the annuity, for example a guaranteed period  or a spouses pension  would reduce 
the annual income  Mr S would receive.  The letter also points out that Mr S didnt have to 
take his benefits now but could defer them  until his 75th birthday. Mr S decided  to go ahead 
with taking the maximum lump sum and an enhanced annuity.
From what  Ive seen I think Mr S didnt know until the meeting in 2012 that he could  retire  
before the age of 65. And it seems he only considered  taking benefits  at this point as the 
adviser had told him about annuity rates being  negatively affected later that year.
Sesame thought Mr S would have accessed  his pension in 2012 in any case whether he had 
stayed in his original pension or not. However,  the investigator thought  Mr S would have 
waited until he reached the age of 65 if he had still been invested  in his old pension plan. 
And I agree with the investigator here.  Based on what Ive seen I think its unlikely Mr S would 
have tried to access his pension early  if the idea hadnt been introduced by the adviser. And 
even if he had, I think once the guaranteed  annuity rates had been  properly explained  to him, I 
think its likely he would  have waited just over another year until he turned 65 in order  to take 
advantage of his valuable  guarantees.  The guaranteed rate wasnt   affected by the change to 
gender neutral  annuity rates in late December 2012, and I think  its unlikely  Mr S would have 
been able to beat the guaranteed rate with an enhanced annuity at market rates.
what would  Mr S likely have done  at age 65?
Mr and Mrs Ss representative says when Mr S turned 65 in spring 2014 the government had 
just decided to introduce pension  freedoms  in 2015  which opened the possibility of taking 
pension benefits  in a lump  sum. In Mr Ss case, he would have had to wait until April 2015  to 
use the new freedoms  as his old plan would  have been worth more  than £30,000 in April 
2014. The representative says Mr S would  have realised that he could have  waited another 
Ref: DRN18260275year and could have used the lump sum to pay off the couples mortgage and other debts. 
The representative argues the couple  would have  been better off this way as the additional 
annuity income Mr S received didnt make  a huge  difference to their finances whereas a 
lump sum would have  meant their home was mortgage-free.
I understand where the representative is coming from. However, I have  to take into account 
that he says this with the benefit  of hindsight and financial knowledge. I need to decide  what  I 
think Mr and Mrs S, who have admitted  they were inexperienced in financial matters, would 
have done when Mr S reached the age of 65  because I cant  be sure they would have 
sought financial advice  rather  than perhaps acting  on the information Mr Ss provider sent him.
At least  four months before his retirement age of 65 his pension  provider was required to 
send him information  about his benefit options.  At this point taking his pension  as one lump 
sum wouldnt have  been  an option as pension freedoms hadnt even been announced  yet, 
let alone introduced. His options would have most likely been restricted to taking a maximum 
of 25 % of his pension  fund in tax free cash and buy an annuity with the remaining funds. Or 
use the full pension value to buy an annuity.  
Although the plan to introduce pension  freedoms in 2015 was announced around  three  
weeks before Mr Ss 65th birthday I think by that point its likely he already would have  made 
his choice and on balance I dont think he would have decided to defer  his pension at the 
very last minute.
I did consider that the regulator  published some guidance for firms in April 2014 for the interim 
period of March  2014 and April 2015  (when the full pension  freedoms came into effect).  It set 
out the regulators expectations  of what firms  should or may wish to do to keep their customers 
informed about  the new legislation and enable them to make an informed choice.
If Mr S was still within his cancellation period or had not even yet applied for his annuity, 
firms were expected to proactively contact customers and inform  them  of the changes  and 
give them  time to respond. The guidance  said annuity providers may wish to extend 
cancellation periods.
So its possible that Mr S would have been contacted by his pension provider or adviser (if 
he had one at the time) and given  information  about  the changes. And-depending on his 
circumstances-the option to defer his pension benefits for another year (until 2015) and 
possibly have the option to take his benefits  in one lump sum would have been explained to 
him. If this had been an option and Mr S was given this information I think  its likely he would 
have been interested in doing  this.
However, I have to consider that the regulators guidance was issued a day before  Mr Ss 65th 
birthday and any information sent out to Mr S would have likely reached  him after his retirement  
date. So on balance I think its most likely that Mr S would  have been already outside his 
cancellation period at this point and couldnt  have deferred his benefits for another year.
Ref: DRN18260276what annuity would Mr S have bought?
On his old plan Mr Ss pension value would  have been £31,320.80 if he had waited until the 
age of 65. This means he could have  had a tax free cash lump sum of £7,830.20. The 
remainder of £23,490.20 would have been used  to buy an annuity. Mr S had a guaranteed  
annuity rate on his pension plan of 8%. However,  this rate only applied  if the annuity  was 
taken on the following basis:
Monthly in advance, guaranteed for 5 years, no spouses pension and no escalation.
On this basis Mr Ss income would  have been £1,879.20 per year 
If Mr S wanted a spouses pension of 50%, the rates would have significantly dropped as 
guaranteed annuity rates  werent offered on annuities with a spouses pension or escalation.
His provider would have  offered the following annuities:
Monthly in advance, guaranteed for 5 years, 50% spouses pension,  no escalation- 
£1,173.36 per year
Monthly in advance, guaranteed for 10 years,  50% spouses pension,  no escalation- 
£1,165.56 per year
When Mr S bought his annuity he did choose a spouses  pension of 50%. The 
recommendation letter says that Mr S wanted  peace of mind  that should  he die before his 
wife she had an extra income as she had no other pension provisions. He also chose a 10 
year guarantee instead of a 5 year guarantee as the difference  in income would only have 
been £6.36 per year.  
So it could be argued that in 2014  Mr S would have chosen an annuity with a 50% spouses 
pension, just as he did in 2012. I thought about  this carefully and took into account the 
equivalent options Mr S was given in 2012. Those were:
Monthly in advance, guaranteed for 10 years,  50% spouses pension,  no escalation- 
£973.08 per year
Monthly in advance, guaranteed for 5 years, no spouses pension, no escalation- 
£1,072.92 per year
This shows that to add a spouses  pension  and include a 10 year guarantee period would 
have only reduced  Mr Ss income by about £100 per year than if he had chosen a single life 
annuity with a five year guarantee  period.  However,  when comparing the same annuity  
options in 2014 the difference would have been over £700  per year. 
Looking at the choices Mr S made  in 2012  I think he was willing  to accept a reasonable deduction 
to his income in return for a spouses pension. However, on balance I think  if presented  with the 
options in 2014, I think its more likely he would have chosen  a single life annuity with a 
guaranteed rate which provided  him with a much higher income during his lifetime.
In summary  I think its likely Mr S would have decided to take his pension benefits at age 65 
in form of a tax free cash lump sum of 25% and a single life annuity with an applied 
guaranteed annuity rate.
Ref: DRN18260277pension credit
Mr and Mrs Ss representative says taking an annuity early has impacted on Mr Ss pension  
credit. He says the adviser should have taken this into account when advising to take 
benefits early. 
The representative has provided a letter from the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP)  
from 2015 which shows Mr S had to pay back nearly £5,000 in overpaid pension  credit 
because his pension  income meant his entitlement had reduced  from February  2011  and 
stopped entirely  in May 2014. 
Ive thought about whether any additional  financial loss needs to be considered here. 
However, I dont think there  is.
I understand that Mr Ss annuity income  would have essentially  replaced  his entitlement for 
pension credit pound for pound. This means taking  an annuity  in 2012 didnt increase Mr Ss 
monthly income and I appreciate the representatives argument  that for this reason Mr S 
shouldnt have been advised to take his benefits  early. 
However, I already  agreed above  that if Mr S had been given the correct advice in 2008, its 
likely he would have stayed in his old plan and retired at the age of 65. So the relevant 
compensation Ill recommend will take into account  that benefits wouldnt have been  taken  in 
2012, including for example that Mr Ss pension would have been invested for longer and the 
ability to make use of his guaranteed annuity rate.
But the important  fact here is that if Mr S hadnt taken his annuity  in 2012 his monthly  
income wouldnt have  been higher. The only difference would  have been  how much of the 
income consisted of pension  credit. So Mr S hasnt lost out in this respect.
I appreciate that Mr S was overpaid  pension credit as he didnt declare the income from this 
pension and in fact from an earlier occupational pension  he received since  2011. However, I 
think it was Mr and Mrs Ss responsibility  to inform  DWP of any additional income  they 
received. So I dont think it would be fair to hold Sesame responsible  for any of the 
overpayments that Mr and Mrs S now have to pay back. 
ability to pay off mortgage
Mr and Mrs Ss representative says the couple  were given limited pension advice when they 
should have been given  full financial  advice. He says their priority would have always  been 
paying off their mortgage and this should have been considered when  giving advice in 2008 
and 2012. 
I understand what difficult situation Mr and Mrs S find themselves in now.  They had an interest 
only mortgage and they didnt have  a repayment vehicle to pay off the balance when the 
mortgage term ended. However,  I cant see that Sesame is responsible for this. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the advice  documents from 2008.  The recommendation letter  says:
I recommend that I review all of your potential financial  planning needs. However, you asked 
me to restrict my advice  to your pension needs
Ref: DRN18260278And the fact find in 2012 also recommends reviewing any protection needs  or mortgage 
provisions. Both were declined by Mr and Mrs S and they only agreed  to receive pension 
advice. So whilst  I can understand the representatives point  that Mr and Mrs S might have 
benefitted from a full review including looking at ways to pay off their mortgage, it seems that 
it was their choice to limit the advice to their pensions.
Based on the documents provided I havent  seen anything  to suggest that the pensions were 
presented as a repayment vehicle for the mortgage.  And I dont see how Mr and Mrs Ss 
pension would have  realistically paid off their mortgage balance in any event. 
In 2008 and 2012, when  Sesame gave the couple  advice, there was no option for 
Mr S to take his pension  as one lump sum. And as I explained above,  even  at a later stage  I 
dont think its likely  Mr S would  have  been  able to make use of the pension freedom 
reforms. The maximum tax free sum available  would have been 25% of the pension  value 
which in Mr Ss case would realistically never have been enough to pay off the mortgage,  
even if they had also used Mrs Ss pension fund in addition. The outstanding  mortgage 
balance in 2012 was around  £16,000.  
In 2012 the couple  received  a lump sum of around £10,000 (around £7000  from Mr Ss 
pension and around £3,000 from Mrs Ss pension) which could have reduced the mortgage  
balance heavily. However, they decided  to use these funds differently.
In summary,  I dont think their pension  provisions would have been  able to pay for their 
mortgage in its entirety  in any event, irrespective of any advice given to them by Sesame.
Mr and Mrs S say they were given  the impression that there was still a pot of money  to pay 
off their mortgage after Mr S accessed  his benefits in 2012. However, I cant see any 
evidence that this was the case.  The recommendation letter  in 2012 says:
You have a personal pensionwhich is valued at £28,124.47 (as at 05 December 2012) 
and are now looking for income and tax free cash from this pension.
You want to take your tax free lump sum of £7,031.12. This will leave an pension  fund of 
approximately £21,138.31 to use to provide  an income  
And the annuity  quotation says:
We have based  this offer of an Annuity on the following:
That you will provide  us with a Pension  Fund  that will have a cash value of £21,138.31
We will have an amount of £21,138.31 from your Pension Fund which  we refer to as the 
Purchase Price  of your Annuity.
I think it would have  been clear that after the lump  sum, the remainder of the funds was used 
to buy an annuity  which provided an annual income. And this meant the original  fund used to 
buy that annuity was no longer available for later use.
Of course I dont know what exactly was discussed in 2012. However, based on the 
evidence provided  I cant fairly say that the adviser told them any money would be left over 
to pay off their mortgage after taking these benefits  or that the adviser gave them  this 
impression in any way. 
Ref: DRN18260279Ive seen documents which  mention  that Mr and Mrs S used to have  endowment policies 
which they voluntarily  cashed in early.  These  would  have  likely been put in place as a 
repayment vehicle  for their mortgage at some  point. 
In summary  I think Mr and Mrs S didnt have  a reasonable repayment  vehicle in place to 
repay their mortgage. However, based  on the information I have I dont think this was 
Sesames fault.
equity release scheme
In 2013 Sesame recommended an equity release scheme to Mr and Mrs S as they didnt 
have any means to pay off their mortgage. Mr and Mrs S told us they contacted  their pension 
provider in 2015 and were  stunned to find out that their pension had already been  used to 
provide a lump  sum and annuity in 2012. However,  the recommendation letter from 2013 
indicates that Mr and Mrs S were  already aware  in 2013 that they had no repayment vehicle 
for the mortgage.  Nowhere in the letter does it say that they were  expecting another  lump 
sum from the pension  policy.
Sesame already recognised that equity  release  shouldnt have been recommended  as it 
would have been expensive. However, as Mr and Mrs S didnt go through  with this 
recommendation they didnt think there  was any financial  loss as a result.  I agree with 
Sesame on this. It might be the case that going through  with the equity release would have 
been to Mr and Mrs Ss disadvantage. However, this service doesnt punish businesses  
solely for making mistakes. We put consumers back in the position they would have been in 
if unsuitable hadnt been given. In this scenario I cant see any actual  financial loss 
stemming from the equity  release  advice. 
Sesame offered to pay for any reasonable costs or fees the couple had to pay for with 
regards to the advice if they provided evidence of this. However, I havent seen that anything 
has been provided. They also offered £250  each to Mr and Mrs S for the inconvenience and 
distress the whole matter  caused them. I think this is fair.
putting things  right
As explained above, I dont think theres  any financial loss with regards to Mrs Ss pension.
To put Mr S into the position he would have been in if Sesame hadnt advised  him to transfer 
his pension in 2008 I think Sesame should do the following:
1.past loss- tax free cash  lump  sum and annuity income
Sesame should:  
A)accumulate on a month  to month  basis: the tax free cash and net income * Mr S did 
receive in form of annuity payments from 2012 (tax free cash) and February 2013 
(annuity)
B)accumulate on a month  to month  basis: the tax free cash and net income* Mr S would 
have received from his 65th birthday in his old pension based on the quoted  annuity of 
£1,879.20 per year
Ref: DRN182602710C)Deduct B from A. If at any point from month to month the accumulated value turns  
negative, this means an ongoing loss has started  to be suffered.  Add up the monthly 
losses until the date of my final decision
D)From  the point losses are being  suffered interest at 8% per year simple**  should  be 
added only to the amount by which the total  loss increases, from that month  all the 
way up to the date of the final decision. This should be totalled up separately  to C**
E)add D to C and pay this as a lump  sum to Mr S
*based on what Ive seen of Mr Ss financial  circumstances I would assume both Mr and Mrs S were
non tax-payers from 2012
**the interest  is subject  to income tax 
2.future losses
F)calculate the difference between Mr Ss annuity in payment and the annuity of 
£1,879.20 in his old pension
G)work out how much it would cost now, at Mr Ss current age, to purchase  an annuity to 
the value of F on the following basis: paid monthly in advance,  no escalation, no 
spouses pension  and pay this sum to Mr S.
Although I think Mr S would have  chosen an annuity  without a spouses pension  if he had 
stayed in his old pension, I did consider that his actual annuity does in fact does include a 
spouses pension  and so it could be argued  that this potential future benefit to Mrs S should 
be taken into account when calculating any losses. The same applies for the fact that Mr Ss 
annuity now has a 10 year guarantee period whereas the annuity  I think  he would have  
taken out in his old pension only had a five year guarantee. 
However, I think overall its fair not to set off these potential benefits against  the future 
losses. I say this because  Mrs Ss poor financial circumstances mean that the small 
spouses pension  she might receive is likely  to simply replace any pension  credit,  so its 
likely she wont  really receive  any additional  benefit from this spouses pension.  With regard 
to the additional guarantee period its difficult to say what exact  monetary benefit  (if any) this 
might provide as it will depend  on when Mr S dies. So I havent included this potential benefit 
in the calculations.
H)If they havent already paid it, Sesame should also pay Mr and Mrs S £250  each for 
the distress this matter has caused  as offered by them before.
my findings
Both Sesame and Mr and Mrs Ss representative  disagreed with my provisional  decision 
(PD) and provided further comments which I thank them for. Ive re-considered all the 
available evidence and arguments from both parties  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. However, having done  so my decision remains the 
same. Ill explain my reasons in more detail below. Ill address the parties comments in turn.
Sesames response
Ref: DRN182602711In summary,  Sesame made the following comments in response to my PD:
They agree with the ombudsmans  findings that Mrs S has suffered no loss and with the 
findings on the equity release
Sesame disagree that Mr S would have deferred his pension  until the age of 65 had  he  
not been advised  by Sesame.
They say the suitability letter shows the adviser explained to Mr S that deferring the 
pension would result  in higher benefits  but the couple was keen to access Mr Ss 
pension at that point as they were both unemployed and wanted to free up some  funds  
to repay  some of their mortgage.  However, Sesame have conceded on this point and 
their offer calculated an annuity from age 65.
Sesame disagree with my finding that Mr S would have chosen  a single life annuity at 
age 65 with a five year guarantee  period. 
They say the suitability report in 2012  discussed various annuity options. It shows  that it was 
decided a spouses pension was a priority  for Mr S as his wife had no other pension 
arrangements and he wanted  peace  of mind  she had extra  income should he die before her.
Mr S had suffered  from ill health in the past and Sesame feels  this would  have been  a 
concern for him when  considering his and his wifes  future  financial situation.  He would 
have wanted to ensure that his wife was financially secure after he died and part of this 
would have been to choose  a guaranteed period that was as long as possible, i.e. ten 
years and not five.
Sesame feels its incorrect  to try and second  guess  what  Mr S would have done if 
theres factual evidence on which to base my decision  (here  the suitability letter in 
2012). They think  their offer based on drawing  an annuity at age 65 with a 50% 
spouses pension  and a ten year guarantee period  is correct.
I remain of the opinion that Mr S would have waited until the age of 65 had he not been  
advised by Sesame in 2012 and I explained my reasons for this in my PD. As Sesame have 
conceded on this point already, I wont go into further detail about this again.
When considering  what annuity Mr S most  likely would have chosen I carefully considered  
the factual evidence and the choices he made  in 2012. However, the options Mr S would 
have had with his old plan at the age of 65 were  different than the options presented to him 
in 2012. I dont doubt that adding a spouses  pension and a longer guarantee period would 
have been in general attractive options  to Mr S and in 2012 he was able to choose these 
options by giving up just £100  of his annuity.  However, in his old plan at the age of 65 the 
same options would have cost him £700.
I recognised in my PD that nobody knows for sure what  decisions Mr and Mrs S would have 
made with regards to their pensions. This doesnt  mean I am simply trying  to guess what  
they would  have done. I have to decide  what I think would have happened on the balance of 
probability based on the information I have about their circumstances and the options they 
were given. And having weighed up the suitability letter  from 2012  and the choices Mr S 
made then with the options he would have been  presented with in his old plan, Im still 
satisfied that its more likely he would have chosen  a single life annuity  with a five year 
guarantee period.
Ref: DRN182602712Mr and Mrs Ss response
Mr and Mrs Ss representative provided  detailed comments in response to my PD. Ive 
considered everything  carefully. In summary he said:
Its highly unlikely  that Mr and Mrs S wanted  limited advice. The adviser knew  they were  
financially inexperienced.
Advice in the 2008 suitability report is flawed including  statements regarding  the level of 
risk for Mr and Mrs S and that their small investment would make  an appreciable 
difference to their income.  The report even shows projected loss in retirement for Mr S. 
The adviser lied about commission payments. And the report in 2012 says Mr and Mrs S 
sought more advice which is another lie.
The report in 2012 shows the couple  were aware  that their mortgage needed 
addressing, so this was a priority and there  is no mention  in the report  of how they 
would pay off their mortgage
Extra income was mentioned without taking  account the subsequent reduction  in 
benefits (both  in 2008 and 2012)
The ombudsman failed  to address any of these issues and appears to be biased 
towards Sesame
Sesame have  been fined millions  in the past for their wrong doings
The report in 2008 indicates  that the adviser  was starting to manipulate Mr and Mrs S.
The ombudsman had made no account  of the deceptions in the reports and the type of 
people Mr and Mrs S were dealing with
The ombudsman said she couldnt  be sure whether Mr S would have sought advice 
when reaching  the age of 65 and that she didnt  think  Mr S would have deferred his 
pension at the last minute. However, she hasnt  considered  that Mr and Mrs S avoided  
taking bad advice  about the lifetime mortgage at the last minute  when their family 
stepped in. The same  could have  happened  when Mr S came to retire  at 65. And a 
competent financial adviser  could have easily managed  a pension  deferral for Mr S. 
The ombudsman has relied  on the fact that Mr and Mrs S have admitted they were 
financially inexperienced  but ignored  that they did get help in the past and what good 
advice they should  expect  from a financial adviser.
The ombudsmans findings  on Mr S choosing a spouses pension dont make  sense as 
this income would have reduced  the equivalent amount of pension credit.
Ref: DRN182602713The ombudsman stated that technically there was no gain or loss for Mr and Mrs S 
having to pay back £5,000 in pension credit, but she is missing the point that if they had 
been given honest  advice  they never  would  have spent  the money that put them in a 
vulnerable position.  The adviser  put the couple  in a position where they spent money 
they didnt have (due to reduced  pension  credit). The ombudsman  saying  it was Mr and 
Mrs Ss responsibility to manage their pension credit when they were  getting advice 
from Sesame,  suggests that the ombudsmans assessment  is not fit for purpose.
The ombudsman has used a statement from the 2008 suitability report  as if it was 
unquestionably correct. The reports contain wrong  and misleading information  and contain  
lies. So relying  on cherry picked information from it calls into question  the whole decision.
Mr and Mrs S didnt use the lump  sums  to pay off the mortgage  as they were under the 
impression from the adviser that the mortgage  was taken  care of. It needs to be 
remembered that it was always the advisers  intention to sell the couple a lifetime  
mortgage and receive  more commission.  This would have covered up the lack of 
previous mortgage planning. 
The adviser talked Mr and Mrs S into an unsuitable product in 2008. However, the 
ombudsman now suggests  he was later honest and diligent and made it clear  to Mr and 
Mrs S what their situation was. This isnt consistent  with the competence of the reports  
that were produced  and how the advice  impacted  on the couples benefits.
With regards to the equity release Mr and Mrs Ss representative  questions  why the 
ombudsman suggests  the couple should  not have believed what the adviser wanted 
them to believe  but instead relied on the advisers report.
The ombudsman ignored that Mr S ended up with a spouses pension which has cost 
him benefits for no gain. And to make matter worse  the ombudsman considered 
assessing it as a potential gain
The ombudsman has no proper understanding of income, costs and benefits and how 
they impact on one another or how a dishonest financial  adviser is likely to act towards 
vulnerable clients.
Its been agreed that the advice given  in 2008  was unsuitable  and I agree that Mr and 
Mrs Ss circumstances werent considered properly by the adviser before they were 
recommended to transfer their pensions to a different product. And for this reason this part of 
the complaint  has been upheld and Mr S will be compensated.
I understand the representatives concerns that Sesame has been fined in the past by the 
regulator. However, this doesnt automatically mean that everything  in the advisers  reports  
has to be automatically ignored or will be incorrect. And this service looks at every complaint  
on its own merits. 
I also appreciate that he strongly feels that the adviser has manipulated financially 
inexperienced customers into buying  products so that he could gain commission.  However, 
we are an impartial organisation  and I have looked at all the evidence-which includes the 
advisers reports-to decide  what I think most  likely happened at the time.  Just because 
mistakes were made and the advice given wasnt suitable, it doesnt mean the adviser is 
automatically wholly responsible for the circumstances  Mr and Mrs S find themselves in now.
Ref: DRN182602714I cant know exactly what was discussed  at any of the meetings with the adviser. The report  
in 2008 says that Mr and Mrs S were offered a review of all their financial planning needs but 
that they asked  the adviser to restrict the advice to their pension  needs. The representative  
might be right that the couple would have  benefitted  from a wider review.  However,  the 
report does say:
I have advised  you to address Protection  - Providing a Cash Sum or Income,  Savings &
investment Advice,  Standard Mortgage Provision [my emphasis] , Buildings & Contents  
Insurance and Payment  Protection Insurance but you have declined to follow  this advice.
On balance I think its more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs S would have read this report  and 
if they did want to discuss  other  areas they could  have  asked  the adviser for this. And I 
wouldnt expect an adviser to provide full financial advice if a customer  hadnt agreed to this 
offer just because they might have the need.
I agree  with the representative that in 2012  the report seems to suggest  that Mr and Mrs S 
were aware their mortgage  needed  addressing. However, I disagree that there  is no mention 
of how to pay it off. In the fact find it is recorded  that the mortgage will be reduced  by paying 
the lump sum from the pension towards it. And in the suitability letter  again  it is mentioned  
that the couple was considering paying off their mortgage and the lump sum would assist 
this need. Mr and Mrs Ss lump sums were around £10,000 and would have  had a 
considerable impact  on their outstanding  mortgage  of £16,400 at that point.
I appreciate that the representative says Mr and Mrs S didnt  use this money to pay off the 
mortgage as the adviser had given them the impression the mortgage had been taken care 
of. Again  I dont know what  was verbally  discussed.  However, as explained in my PD, based 
on the evidence  I have I cant see that Mr and Mrs S were given the impression  they would 
have money left over to pay off their pension after they had taken their benefits in 2012.The 
representative says the equity release would have  covered up the lack of proper mortgage 
planning. However, as explained in my PD, I cant see that its Sesames fault Mr and Mrs S 
didnt have a repayment vehicle in place for their mortgage. 
I understand the representative still believes Mr S could have made use of the pension  
freedoms and taken  his pension as a lump sum when  he turned 65. However, Im still not 
satisfied that this likely would have happened. Mr S would have received a retirement  pack  
from his pension provider  which  would have included detailed  information about his pension 
options. As explained,  at this stage taking  the whole pension as a lump sum wouldnt have 
been an option, whether Mr S sought advice from anyone or not. So on balance  I think  Mr S 
would have decided  to take a lump sum and annuity  before his 65th birthday.
The representative says because family  stepped in at the last minute  and stopped Mr and 
Mrs S proceeding with the equity release, the same would have happened when pension 
freedoms were announced shortly before Mr S turned 65. Of course  this is possible. 
However, in order for me to say that Mr S would have been advised  at the last minute by his 
family to change the way he was planning to take his benefits, I need  to be satisfied  that on 
balance this is what most likely would have happened. And Im not convinced  it is. To my 
knowledge Mr and Mrs Ss family  wasnt involved when the couple transferred their pensions  
in 2008 or when they took their benefits in 2012.  So just because  they stepped in before  the 
equity release went through in 2013  it doesnt mean they always would have helped the 
couple with financial  decisions or would have  even known  about their plans. And even if they 
had been asked for help Im not sure that they would have acted in the very short timeframe 
between the pension freedoms being  announced and Mr Ss annuity starting. 
Ref: DRN182602715Im sure a financial adviser  could  have arranged a deferral for Mr S. However  first of all its 
unclear whether Mr S would have actually  instructed a financial adviser, particularly as this 
would have cost him money the couple didnt really have spare and the information from the 
provider would have  clearly given him his pension options at the time. And even if he did, the 
pension advice would have concluded with Mr S making his pension  choices.  On balance, 
I dont think its likely  that an adviser  would have then proactively contacted Mr S 
immediately after the pension freedoms were announced to advise him to change his 
changes at the last minute. And as explained  in my PD, by the time advisers and providers 
were given guidance to inform customers about  the new changes,  Mr S most likely  would  
have been outside his cancellation period and couldnt have deferred.
So having  considered everything  again Im still satisfied  that on balance and that is what  I 
have to consider  as were looking at hypothetical scenarios-Mr  S wouldnt have made use of 
pension freedoms.
I carefully considered  again the impact  of taking Mr S taking his benefits in 2012 had on the 
couples pension credit. I understand that the annuity payments werent  of use to the couple  
as it would have  reduced their benefits pound for pound. And that the adviser telling them 
they would  receive  extra  income  was somewhat misleading. However, Mr and Mrs S 
benefitted from the lump  sums that were paid and they could have reduced  their mortgage 
(however decided to spend this money on other things). So taking pension  benefits in 2012  
wouldnt have been necessarily the wrong  advice (if the transfer of pensions in 2008 had 
been suitable).
I appreciate that pension  credit and Mr Ss other small  pension  should have been considered 
by the adviser  and he should have made the couple aware of how taking the annuity  income  
might affect their benefits and that the annuity  might not lead to extra  income. But I cant 
ignore the fact that Mr and Mrs S should  have been  aware that they needed to report any 
change of circumstances to the DWP  (like with any benefits).  And they hadnt done so for 
another pension  income Mr S received from 2011  (which makes up the majority of the 
overpayment). So I think taking everything  into account I remain  of the opinion that it 
ultimately it was Mr and Mrs Ss responsibility  to provide the correct information to the DWP  
and avoid being overpaid. For this reason I wont ask Sesame  to make any additional  
compensation payments in this regard.  
Its correct that Ive considered how to take into account the spouses pension  Mr S has on 
his current annuity,  as to be fair to both parties  I needed to look at every aspect when 
comparing the annuity Mr S should have had and the one he ended up with. However, when 
reading my PD again, the representative should  notice that I did recognise  the fact that the 
spouses pension  most  likely wont be beneficial to Mrs S and so I havent offset this in the 
compensation calculations.
I summary,  Im still satisfied that the outcome I have reached in this case  is fair. 
I acknowledge that both Sesame and Mr and Mrs Ss representative  think some of the 
assumptions I have made favours  the other  party in some way. However,  I hope  this shows  
that I havent been biased towards either  party. I can assure all parties that I have carefully 
considered all the information I was given and Im satisfied  that the assumptions I have 
made when  I needed  to decide what most likely  would have happened are reasonable.
Ref: DRN182602716my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and request  Sesame  Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs S the compensation 
as described in my provisional decision which has been repeated above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019. 
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1826027