K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001. Mr D 
says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him and the late Mrs D the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
The PPI covered Mr D only, so I have mainly  considered his circumstances at the time the 
policy was sold.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr and Mrs D aware  the PPI was optional and gain their consent  before 
adding the policy to their mortgage. Mr D says he felt the policy was mandatory. The PPI 
was taken a long time ago and there is limited information available  from the time. But the 
PPI was taken out some  time after the mortgage  was taken out. So I think  Mr and Mrs D 
would have known  they didnt have  to take the policy to be approved for their mortgage. 
While I cant be certain  what  was said at the time I dont have enough to say Lloyds didnt 
make it clear  the PPI optional, or that Mr and Mrs D didnt choose to have it. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr D so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  Mr D chose  to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for Mr and Mrs D if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr D off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said - including  what hes said about not being told 
about the main  exclusions  of the policy and being close  to retirement age when he took it 
out. But as Ive said above Mr D doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the policy  
exclusions, so I dont think this would have  been  of concern to him. Mr D also had several 
years before he was due to retire so would  still have been able to benefit for the policy  for 
some time. With this in mind these points dont  change  my decision.
Ref: DRN16730342my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1673034