K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Santander UK plc has transferred her debt to a third party company.
background
Ms L says her account  defaulted a number  of years ago but since  then shes  been  making  
the required repayments to Santander. She says Santander has transferred her account to a 
third party company I will call W which has caused  her stress and anxiety. Ms L would like 
to deal with Santander and not W and says this has caused her health  concerns.
Santander says Ms Ls account terms and conditions allow  it to transfer a debt to a third 
party company such as W. It doesnt  accept  making a mistake  and says it told Ms L what  it 
intended to do.
Ms L brought her complaint to us and our adjudicator didnt  uphold  it. The adjudicator 
thought the account terms and conditions allowed Santander to transfer a debt as in these 
circumstances and so didnt think it had acted unfairly or made a mistake.
Ms L says there was a lack of consultation  and Santander hasnt considered that shes kept 
to the repayment  agreement. She says there  was no reason for the transfer  and that shes  
had problems with W.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Ms L will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Ive looked at Ms Ls account terms and conditions  from when the account  was opened 
which I think Ms L would  have agreed to. And Im satisfied that Santander  is entitled  in line 
with those account terms and conditions to transfer a debt or account  as in these 
circumstances. So I dont  think Santander  has made  a mistake  or acted unfairly  by taking the 
decision to transfer  Ms Ls account  to W.
Im also satisfied that Santander  told Ms L that it intended to take the action it did and I dont 
think it was obliged to consult with Ms L or ask her views on that decision.  I appreciate  Ms L 
says that decision  has affected her health  and caused her stress. And whilst I sympathise 
with her position I cant fairly hold Santander  responsible for that for the reasons I have 
explained.
If Ms L has problems with W then of course  she is free to make a complaint to it.
Overall Im satisfied Santander has acted  fairly  and in line with the agreed  account terms 
and conditions. Im also satisfied its entitled to make such commercial business  decisions 
such as this and thats not something I can fairly interfere in.
Ref: DRN13921792my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1392179