K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Metro Bank PLC gave  her incorrect  information about switching her 
business banking  account and provided poor service.
background
Mrs B was the director of a limited company. Shed decided she wanted her business to 
trade in future as a sole trader. She spoke to Metro Bank about opening a business account  
as a sole trader. She says it told her she would need  to dissolve her limited  company first 
and that it could then switch her account.  Mrs B dissolved the company and found that the 
assets of her company had become payable to the Crown. And that she would need to 
spend over £4,000 in legal fees and costs to restore the company to the register  and access  
this money. She also complained at the delay in her sole trader account at Metro  Bank  being  
set up. It offered to pay her £250  for the poor service  but did not accept  it gave her advice or 
incorrect information about switching.
The adjudicator did not recommend it do anything more. He said that:
-Metro Bank had told him it was not possible to switch  an account from a limited 
company to a sole trader and he accepted  that was the case.
-It said that Mrs B could not initially open  a sole trader account as she did not have 
proof that she was operating as a sole trader. It had said it had not told her to 
dissolve her limited company.
-There was no evidence that it had specifically advised her to dissolve her company. 
Or that shed been told she could use the switching service to transfer her balance 
and regular payments  from the existing financial business that held the company 
account.
-He thought that the compensation for the delay in the opening of the account  and for 
receiving her chequebook and debit card was reasonable.
Mrs B did not agree.  She said that her complaint had always  been about Metro  Bank  
confirming that it could transfer  funds  from the limited company account  to the sole trader 
account. She said shed  been told this by three people on three occasions at two different 
branches. She had provided  hand  written notes  which she said that although were not of 
every word  said were notes of the questions and answers asked.  Mrs B said she has had a 
face to face apology from one member of staff who had admitted she did not know  that a 
limited company account could not be transferred to a sole trader account. And she thought 
that when shed been asked by a local director of Metro Bank how much  she wanted  to 
settle the complaint that was an admission of liability.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that Mrs B did not expect to have these difficulties and to need to incur 
significant costs  to access money after her company was dissolved.
I asked Metro Bank for any contact notes it had of discussions  with her and also for a copy 
of her account opening application form and any evidence of any forms completed to 
Ref: DRN16878322arrange for an account switch. It says that there  could be no switching forms completed as 
the company and Mrs B as a sole trader were  different legal entities.
It seems  to me that Mrs B had already decided she wanted to operate  as a sole trader.  And 
that Metro Bank told Mrs B it would not be able to open an account  until she was trading as 
a sole trader.  That was why her account  was not opened in May 2018 when she first 
contacted it. 
I dont see that Metro Bank could be expected to give her advice using the regulatory 
definition about  what to do with her company. All it was discussing with her was opening  a 
business bank  account as a sole trader.  I think it most likely Mrs B told Metro Bank that the 
way she was going to start trading as a sole trader was to dissolve her limited company. And 
her email  to Metro Bank  of 9 May 2018  states that she had contacted her own accountant  
following a branch visit. And that he would let her know  as soon as the company was closed 
and he could provide evidence she was a sole trader. 
I dont consider that Metro Bank  can fairly be responsible for any further consequences of 
that including as Mrs B says that the dissolved company funds were  due to the Crown.  I 
think the full impact of dissolving a company  and one that was never  going  to be a customer 
of Metro Bank were  the responsibility of Mrs M to assess and take appropriate professional  
guidance about.
The other issue is what was said to her about the ability  to switch the accounts. By this     
Mrs B is referring to a specific switching  service in the industry through which balances and 
regular payments are transferred from one bank  to another. There is no evidence of any 
such switching forms being  completed. But Mrs Bs belief is that Metro Bank told her that the 
automated switch would  be possible from a company account on three  occasions.  
I dont find either the handwritten sheet of notes from Mrs B about  this or the undocumented  
recollections of bank staff through  the local directors investigation compelling evidence  of 
what was said. I cant fairly determine  what was said and find a mistake was made. I dont 
doubt that there was some misunderstanding  about the process.  But Mrs B was never going 
to be able to transfer  say these regular payments whatever she might have thought and 
whether or not her company was dissolved. Im not clear what  she could have done 
differently even had she realised that. 
Metro Bank  has apologised for the delays and related poor service in opening her sole trader 
account in August 2018 and has offered her £250 in compensation. I think  thats reasonable 
and so I wont be asking  it to do anything more.
Ref: DRN16878323my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Metro  Bank  PLC need do 
no more than it has already offered to do and which is to pay Mrs B a total of £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1687832