K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
personal loan in 2009. Mr T says Black Horse  Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Black Horse  had to make it clear to Mr T that he had a choice about  it. 
But Mr T says he was led to believe the PPI was compulsory.
Black Horse  has said the loan and PPI were sold over the phone, and its sent us a copy of 
the phone  script it says was in use at the time. This script instructs  the advisor to confirm the 
loan has been  agreed before discussing PPI, highlight that the PPI is optional and ask the 
customer whether they would like the PPI.
Black Horse  has also sent us a copy of Mr Ts loan agreement. This included  a section on 
PPI, which  stated that it was optional and gave a space for Mr T to sign if he wanted  to take 
it out. And Mr T has signed in the space.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  the call with Mr T largely followed the script  
Black Horse  has sent us. And so I think Black  Horse did make it clear  to Mr T that he had a 
choice about the PPI.
Black Horse  recommended  the PPI to Mr T, so it had to check  that it was right for him. And, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example, he 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
And the policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than the sick pay hes told us he 
wouldve received.
Mr T has said that he was self-employed at the time and so the policy  was right for him. But 
the policy wouldnt have  treated him any differently than an employed  person or made it any 
more difficult for him to claim because he was self-employed. So I still think  it was right for 
him.
As well as checking it was right for him, Black Horse  had to give Mr T clear information  about  
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But, for 
the same  reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr T off taking it out.
Which means Black  Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
Ref: DRN19915012But Black Horse will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about  that. Because Black Horse  didnt  tell Mr T, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Black Horse has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Black Horse  has to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Black  Horse should  also pay back to Mr T any extra interest  
he paid because of that.
Black Horse  should pay back to Mr T the extra he paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Black  Horse should also pay 
Mr T 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black  Horse Limited doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1991501