K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
In 2001 Miss G took out a mortgage  and the bank recommended  she also take out PPI to 
protect her repayments. The PPI cost about £21 a month and would have  paid out about 
£354 a month if Miss G had made a successful claim.
Miss G says she was taking out her first mortgage at the time and Santander took advantage 
of her inexperience to sell her the policy. She also says she was moving into shared 
ownership accommodation which meant she had to pay rent and service charges as well as 
the mortgage. She says it makes no sense for her to have bought  cover for only part of her 
main outgoings. Miss G thinks the bank was wrong to sell her the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Gs case
I have decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for this.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision  on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely  
to have happened.
Miss Gs main  concern  is that she thinks Santander took advantage  of her inexperience 
when she bought the PPI. I accept that Miss G was getting her first mortgage   but she was 
also well over the eligibility age for buying insurance (thats 18) at the time. I accept 
Santander might have said the PPI was a good  idea  but that in itself isnt a failure on 
Santanders part. And I think that if Miss G was experienced  enough to make decisions 
about buying a property,  then I cant say she wasnt also experienced enough to decide if the 
PPI was something she wanted.  
Santander doesnt have all the paperwork for either  the mortgage  or the PPI. But this isnt 
surprising given the sale took place  about 18 years ago and the mortgage  ended in 2005.  I 
wouldnt expect either Miss G or Santander  to keep  paperwork indefinitely.
From what  this service knows about how Santander sold PPI at the time, its likely Miss G 
was given a choice about buying the PPI and she chose to take it. 
Ref: DRN19902892Santander says it advised Miss G to buy the PPI. This means that it needed to ensure that it 
met her needs. From what I know of Miss Gs circumstances at the time, I think  the policy 
was suitable for them.
-Miss G was eligible  for the policy, and it doesnt look like she would have been affected 
by any of the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to 
pre-existing medical conditions.
-Miss G might  have received some sick pay if she couldnt  work. But this policy  would pay 
on top of these benefits and for considerably longer than Miss G would likely get her full 
salary. A mortgage is a big commitment, and I think Miss G would have had some use 
for the policy. And whilst  I appreciate  this policy  wouldnt cover the rent she also paid on 
her property,  I wouldnt expect Santander to sell extra cover for this. And at least Miss G 
would have had some of her outgoings  covered if she couldnt work,  which  would have 
lessened the need for her to use savings  or work benefits in those circumstances.
-Santander needed to give Miss G enough information for her to make an informed 
choice about buying the policy. I dont know exactly when  she was told what the PI would 
cost. But I do think shed have  known it cost something.  The policy  was competitively 
priced and apparently  affordable, and I dont think when Miss G first knew the cost 
affected her decision to buy the PPI. 
-Its possible that Santander could have provided  more information about the policy,  
particularly in regard  to the things  that it didnt cover. But Miss G wasnt affected by any 
of these things  at the time, so I dont  think that more  information  would  have caused  her 
to change her mind about buying the policy. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1990289