K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unreasonably declined a 
claim on her legal expenses insurance  policy. All references to RSA include its agents. 
Background
Last year, Mrs M raised a claim on her legal expenses insurance policy in relation to a 
dispute with her neighbour. She said that water  was overflowing from her neighbours 
guttering which was damaging her home and causing a nuisance. 
RSA agreed to consider the claim. It asked a firm of solicitors  on its panel to assess  whether 
the claim had reasonable prospects of success, which was a requirement of Mrs Ms policy.  
A solicitor at the firm reviewed the claim, but didnt  think it was likely to succeed. So she 
wrote to Mrs M to explain that her claim wouldnt be covered by her insurer. 
Mrs M disagreed. She said the video evidence shed  sent to the solicitor clearly  showed that 
the overflowing water was causing discolouration to her home.  And she sent the solicitor 
invoices for maintenance that shed  had to have carried out on her own guttering  as a 
consequence of the overflowing  water from next door. She said her own guttering  was now 
coming loose which  was a liability risk, and that her property was suffering  from damp.  
The solicitor  remained of the opinion that there  wasnt a reasonable prospect of establishing 
a nuisance. And that there wasnt enough evidence to support that the overflowing water had 
caused damage to Mrs Ms home or reduced  its market value. In addition, she said it was 
clear that the issues arose before Mrs Ms policy started in 2015, as some of the invoices 
dated back to 2013. She told Mrs M that pre-existing disputes werent covered by her policy. 
Mrs M still felt that her claim had reasonable prospects of success. She said the estimates 
from 2013 related  to an issue  which  had since been resolved, and that her claim related to a 
separate issue which began in 2016.  She felt the solicitor had been influenced by the fact 
that her supervisor had declined  a claim she made  for a dispute  with her neighbour in 2016. 
A member of the firms  compliance department provided RSAs  complaint response.  She 
reviewed the solicitors advice, and concluded  that it was sound. She thought  it could be 
argued that the claim related  to issues which arose  after the policy began,  but ultimately that 
didnt matter because  the claim didnt enjoy  a reasonable prospect of success. At that point,  
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Ms complaint but didnt uphold  it. He felt that the claim had 
been reviewed  in line with the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy,  and that RSA was 
entitled to rely on the solicitors opinion to decline  it. Mrs M remained unhappy,  so the matter 
has been passed to me to reach a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN15361222Mrs Ms policy, like virtually all legal expenses insurance policies, requires a policyholders 
claim to have a reasonable prospect of success.  We dont think  thats unreasonable. Court  
action can be expensive.  A privately paying  customer wouldnt want  to bear the cost of a 
claim if theyd  been told it was unlikely to succeed.  An insurer  cant  be expected  to either.  
Where an insurer has declined such a claim,  its not our role to carry out our own review of 
the merits of the underlying claim. I appreciate Mrs M feels strongly that the solicitor  has 
drawn the wrong conclusions from the evidence  shes presented. But my role is to decide 
whether her insurer has acted fairly. So long as its got advice from a suitably qualified  legal 
professional, its generally entitled to rely on that advice, unless we think  it was obviously 
wrong or based  on mistakes of fact. 
RSA has relied on the advice  of a trainee solicitor. She was supervised by a civil litigation 
solicitor who qualified in 2011. She reviewed Mrs Ms testimony, photos and videos of the 
effects of the overflowing water, the title sheets for each property and evidence  of prior 
maintenance to Mrs Ms home. She outlined the burdens of proof a Scottish court  would 
apply, and explained that, in her opinion, Mrs Ms claim wouldnt meet  those burdens. 
Her advice  has since  been  checked  by her supervisor and her firms compliance department.  
I think the trainee  solicitors advice included sufficient detail and reasoning  for RSA to have 
relied on it. Theres nothing that makes  me think there was anything obviously wrong with it 
or that it was based on factual errors. And I havent seen evidence which leads me to think 
the trainee solicitor was swayed by the fact that her supervisor had declined Mrs Ms 
previous claim. So I dont  think RSA needs to do anything further here. 
Id expect RSA to reconsider its position  if Mrs M is able to provide a more  favourable  legal 
opinion. But I think its important to flag that RSA has also raised questions about  whether 
the dispute started before Mrs Ms policy began.  
Mrs M says the issues her contractor highlighted  in 2013 were resolved at the time through  
the intervention  of the local authority. But in the timeline she presented to the trainee 
solicitor, she described asking the neighbour to carry out further repairs in around  February  
2014 or 2015 and again in around  October 2014  or 2015  without  success, before involving 
an environmental health agency in 2016.  
 
So even if Mrs M can obtain  a more favourable assessment of her claims prospects of 
success, I think she should be on notice that RSA might still decide  that it falls under the 
exclusion for pre-existing disputes. Ultimately though, it would be up to RSA to show that the 
exclusion applies. 
Mrs M has said that the solicitors were  negligent  and breached their duty of care to her. I can 
only consider whether  RSA treated her fairly, and I think it did. The solicitors have their own 
regulatory body  and complaints handling body (the Scottish Legal Complaints Commission).  
Mrs M can approach that body if she has concerns  about the solicitors  own actions.
Mrs M has also proposed that RSA should  send a loss adjuster to her property to 
substantiate her claim. But given  my findings that RSA acted fairly in declining Mrs Js claim,  
I wouldnt expect it to pay for any professional reports.  
Ref: DRN15361223My final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1536122