K820x#14the complaint
Mr I complains that TSB Bank plc didnt tell him it had changed the reference  numbers  he 
needed to use to make an international payment into his TSB account. He says his money 
went missing as a result  and that this meant he wasnt  able to travel abroad to attend an 
important family event.
what happened
In April 2018 TSB upgraded its IT systems,  at the same time it made changes  to the 
International Bank Account  Number  (IBAN) that its customers  needed to use when arranging 
payments into their TSB accounts  from overseas. 
On 7 November  2018 Mr I arranged for a broker in a foreign country to transfer some money 
to his TSB account.  The money never arrived; so on 16 November Mr I contacted  his broker 
to find out what  had happened. They confirmed that  as far as they were aware  the 
transfer had gone ahead  as planned.
Mr I contacted TSB several times  to try to find out what had gone  wrong;  he was due to 
travel abroad on 1 December and needed the money to pay for his flight. On 22 November 
TSB told Mr I they had not received the payment because Mr I had not used the correct 
IBAN number, he had used the old Lloyds  IBAN number rather than the TSB IBAN  number 
that was now required.
TSB agreed  during this conversation that they could have handled  things better, specifically 
that they could  have  told Mr I what had gone wrong with the payment much more  quickly. So 
given Mr Is difficult circumstances at the time, TSB offered  to pay him £350  to recognise the 
impact this issue had on him, and £15 to cover his call costs in trying to resolve the matter. 
But TSB also told Mr I hed need  to contact the bank that had sent the payment  so they 
could complete a trace  and locate  the money.
Mr I contacted the sending bank, and the sending bank sent SWIFT messages to Lloyds 
asking for the funds  to be returned. Lloyds  have told the sending bank that they returned the 
funds on 19 December, but the sending  bank has not been able to find them.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint. He thought  that what TSB had offered to 
Mr I was fair compensation to recognise  what  had gone wrong. But he didnt think  TSB could 
now do any more to help find the missing money,  as only the sending  bank  and Lloyds 
would be able to trace those funds now.
Mr I didnt think that was fair, he felt that TSB should  be working with Lloyds to find his 
money, and that he should receive more  compensation to recognise the enormous  impact 
what has happened had on him. So the case has been passed  to me to decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think what TSB has already  done is fair.
Ref: DRN16222842I dont doubt that Mr I has been hugely  affected by what  has happened here, I have a lot of 
sympathy for the situation  he has found himself in at what was already a very difficult time. 
But I have to consider  how much  of what has happened is down to anything TSB did wrong.
From my experience of TSB cases involving the changes to their IBAN,  I know that TSB did 
send out notifications of the change,  they also updated the information about IBANs on their 
website. But with what Ive seen of Mr Is records of the emails  he got from TSB I cant  be 
certain that he received these notifications, and due to the changes  to its IT systems TSB 
also cant provide  definitive  proof that they were sent to Mr I.
But even with that in mind,  I think that what TSB has already done to put things right is 
appropriate in the circumstances of this complaint. I say this because  once TSB had worked  
out what had gone wrong,  it paid Mr I compensation to recognise the impact of what had 
happened so far and advised Mr I that he would need to contact the sending bank to trace  
the payment.  
I think that was the right advice to give. Based on what Ive seen, the payment never  
reached TSB, and was instead diverted to Lloyds.  This means it would be very difficult for 
TSB to trace  the payment, because they havent  been involved at any stage of this payment 
process. Generally  speaking, when a payment has been sent and has gone  missing, it is the 
sending bank that should trace the payment; because it knows where  the payment was sent 
and what reference  numbers were used. So in normal circumstances the sending bank is in 
the best position to locate the payment  and to recall it from the next bank in the payment 
chain  and to do so reasonably quickly. 
It appears,  from what Mr I has told us, that Lloyds did find the payment and return it to the 
sending bank. Its unfortunate that the sending bank apparently now cant  find that payment 
on its own systems.  But I think thats something that only the sending  bank  and Lloyds will 
be able to resolve. TSB does not have  access to either banks systems, or details of how 
Lloyds returned  the payment, so would  not be able to trace  the money.
With everything Ive seen, I cant be certain that Mr I received direct notification that the 
IBAN he needed  to use would be changing,  but I also need to bear in mind that from other  
cases Ive dealt with Im aware  TSB did send  out messages to its customers  detailing these 
changes, and that they also publicised this change  on their website.  Overall  I dont think  I 
can fairly say that TSB didnt tell Mr I that his IBAN would be changing. 
I do though acknowledge that TSB could have handled things  better here. Specifically in how 
long it took them to tell Mr I what had gone wrong with his payment. But TSB has already 
made a payment to Mr I to recognise  the impact of that on him. And I think  that TSBs  
responsibility for what then happened ends with its advice that Mr I contact  the sending  
bank. I cant hold TSB responsible for the sending bank and Lloyds then being unable  to 
locate the funds.
As Ive said,  I understand that Mr I has had a very difficult time, but taking everything into 
account, I think the compensation TSB originally offered, which  I understand it has already 
paid to Mr I, is a fair way to resolve this complaint.  It is now for the other  parties involved 
here  Lloyds and the overseas sending bank  to take the necessary steps to find Mr Is 
missing money.
Ref: DRN16222843my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint. I dont think  TSB needs to do 
anything more than it has already done  to resolve  Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1622284