K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about CIS General Insurance Limiteds handling  of his car insurance  
policy.
Reference to CIS includes their agents.
background
Mr Ps car was insured with CIS. In March  2016, another driver  claimed  that Mr P reversed 
into his car. The other driver claimed for the damage  to his car and for personal  injury. It later 
transpired that Mr P wasnt  involved and it was a case  of mistaken identity.
But when CIS received  the claim they updated a shared  insurance  database,  the claims and 
underwriting exchange  (CUE), which showed the claim  as being open. CIS instructed a 
solicitor to deal with the other driver and his claim. It took well over a year before the other  
driver withdrew his claim. While that was going on, in May 2017,  Mr P applied  through  a 
broker to insure his car with a different insurer from 1 June 2017. During the online  
application when  asked if he had any previous claims, Mr P said he didnt.  His new policy 
started on 1 June. But the broker  carried  out some checks  and discovered there were  two 
open claims showing on CUE, the one involving CIS from March 2016 and another one from 
April 2014 when Mr P had cover with a different insurer. When the broker told the new 
insurer about the two open claims,  the insurer cancelled Mr Ps policy  on 2 June 2017. Mr P 
complained.
I should say that Mr P made separate complaints about: the broker of the June 2017 policy;  
the insurer of the June  2017 policy; the insurer from 2014 when  the April 2014  claim was 
recorded on CUE; and this complaint  about  CIS. Those other complaints have all been  dealt  
with under different case references.  This complaint therefore only relates to CIS but I may 
refer to aspects of the other complaints for explanatory purposes only.
My understanding of Mr Ps complaint about CIS is that they wrongly recorded the March  
2016 claim on CUE and it took too long to remove it, which led to the cancellation of his June 
2017 policy. He said he had to then take out insurance with another insurer which cost him 
more and he has to now disclose the fact that he has had insurance cancelled. CIS said: 
they were correct in updating CUE  with the open claim; they were pro-active in defending the 
claim and in trying to get the other side to withdraw  it; and although  there were delays in the 
process, those delays werent because of anything CIS did or didnt do. CIS upheld the 
complaint and paid Mr P £100 compensation. The reason CIS gave for upholding the 
complaint was: the claim has been kept open due to our pro-activeness  to get confirmation 
from the third party representatives  that theyve withdrawn their claim. Although this isnt the 
wrong thing to do, I believe  if we couldve made  a business decision  to close  the claim 
sooner and as such, this might not have led to your need to complain.
Mr P brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He felt CIS hadnt 
treated Mr P fairly. As CIS didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 March 2020. I said:
Ref: DRN13589042Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr P, but Im not intending  to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr P has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all 
those very carefully.  But, in this decision,  I will focus on what  I consider to be the key 
issues. My role is to decide  if CIS have dealt  with Mr P in a fair and reasonable way.
While CIS appear to have  initially upheld Mr Ps complaint, it seems that they 
retracted that as they disagreed with our investigator  finding  in Mr Ps favour.
When the other driver  claimed against Mr Ps policy, CIS updated  CUE  to show  there 
was an open claim against  Mr Ps policy. That is normal insurance industry practice,  
so CIS didnt  do anything  wrong. CIS also instructed a solicitor  to defend against the 
claim, which was a reasonable thing to do. Often claims like this can take years to 
resolve. And when  Mr P applied for a new policy with a different insurer  on 28 May 
2017, the claim CIS were dealing with was still open and CIS were trying  to get the 
other driver to withdraw his claim. I think it was reasonable for CIS to not remove the 
CUE record until the other driver  withdrew  his claim. Thats because up until that 
point the other driver could have started action against CIS and Mr P.
When applying for the new policy, Mr P was asked if he had any recent claims. He 
said he didnt. But although  he knew the March 2016 claim was spurious, Mr P was 
aware it was still open. So, I think he should have declared that claim and explained 
the situation. CIS had told Mr P as recently  as 24 April 2017,  that the incident was 
still on CUE and that it couldnt be removed while it was still being investigated. And I 
think if Mr P had told the broker about the open claim, then the other insurer either 
wouldn't have  cancelled  Mr Ps June 2017 policy  or the broker  would have found him 
a different policy. So, I dont think CIS did anything wrong or that their actions led to 
Mr Ps new policy  being  cancelled. Im therefore  not intending to uphold  this 
complaint.
Finally, Im aware  that one of Mr Ps main concerns was that because  his 1 June 
2017 policy was cancelled, he would have to declare that going forward  which  would 
be to his detriment.  But I have seen confirmation  from the insurer that cancelled that 
policy, and Im aware that confirmation was given  to Mr P, that they amended  the 
relevant records to remove the cancellation marker from Mr Ps records.  They  said 
that means he doesnt have to declare the June  2017 policy as cancelled  when 
asked in the future if hes ever had insurance  cancelled or denied.  I hope that helps.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. CIS accepted my provisional findings. 
But Mr P didnt and made  the following points:
He only complained about CIS because our service told him to. This was thought  
necessary because our service  failed to correctly  investigate  the broker.
The broker lied saying that they didnt check to see if he had any claims. My 
provisional decision said the broker carried out some checks and discovered two 
open claims". But the broker expressly  denied making any such checks.
The provisional decision indicates that our services  decision about the broker  was 
wrong.
Ref: DRN13589043my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to Mr Ps further  comments, as follows:
Mr P said he only complained about CIS because our service instructed him. But I dont 
agree thats  the case. Ive seen that Mr P was unhappy with CISs actions and that he raised 
those with us.
Finally, Mr P has made  some comments about  the broker.  As this complaint is about  the 
actions of CIS and Mr Ps concerns about  the broker have been dealt with in a separate  
complaint, I wont comment about  the broker.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.  
 
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1358904