K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that GE Money Consumer  Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly  
declined their claim under section  75 (s.75) of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
background
Mr and Mrs B became members  of a timeshare company  in 1997. In 2003,  whilst on holiday,  
they were persuaded by the timeshare company to make some changes  to their existing 
arrangements to give them greater flexibility. This involved  paying a sum of money that was 
financed, in part, by a point of sale loan from GE Money.
Shortly after they had made the changes Mr and Mrs B realised the changes  theyd made  
didnt give them the flexibility theyd been  led to believe  theyd have. In December 2004  Mr 
and Mrs B raised this with the timeshare company but felt that their issues and concerns  
were ignored.
In October  2017 Mr and Mrs B wrote to GE Money to make a claim under s.75 of the CCA. 
They said that the timeshare company had misrepresented the benefits of the changes  
theyd made  to their existing timeshare arrangement.
GE Money  looked  into their concerns. It said it didnt think  s.75 applied as there wasnt  a 
debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) relationship. It went on to say that even if it were satisfied that 
there was a d-c-s relationship it believed Mr and Mrs Bs claim was time barred in its entirety  
under sections 2, 5 and/or 9 of the Limitation  Act 1980. Finally GE Money said that it didnt 
think our service could consider the complaint as it wasnt within  our jurisdiction. This was 
because the loan was taken out in 2003,  which was prior to 6 April 2007 when we were 
granted permission  to consider consumer  credit complaints.
Unhappy with this Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. She believed that Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint fell within our services jurisdiction. She was also satisfied that there  was a d-c-s 
relationship which meant  s.75 did apply. However,  she considered it likely that Mr and Mrs 
Bs misrepresentation claim against  the supplier or the like claim against GE Money 
exceeded the time limits under the Limitation Act. So she concluded  that it was reasonable 
for GE Money to take into account when it rejected the consumers s.75 claim.  
GE Money  accepted what our investigator  said, although it still disputed that the complaint 
fell within  our services jurisdiction and it didnt  think there was a d-c-s relationship which  
meant s.75 applied.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree with the findings  and asked for an ombudsman  to review their 
complaint and issue a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in their entirety  to decide whats  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have focused on what I consider 
Ref: DRN16473842to be the central  issues, as the purpose of my decision  is not to address  every point raised  in 
detail, but to set out my conclusions and reasons  for reaching  them.
Having done so, I wont be asking GE Money  to take any further action to resolve the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive thought carefully about whether this complaint is one our service can consider. Im 
satisfied that it is. 
GE Money  has said that as Mr and Mrs B are complaining about  events  that took place back  
in 2003, and this is before consumer credit  complaints fell within  the scope of complaints we 
could consider, it falls outside of our jurisdiction.  
The rules  on the types of complaints our service can consider  (the DISP  rules)  are set out in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys  Handbook.  In particular DISP 2.3 To which  activities  does 
the Compulsory  Jurisdiction apply? sets out which activities  can give rise to a complaint 
which our service has the power to consider. DISP 2.3.1 (1) says:
The ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction  if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities:
(1)regulated activities..;

(4) lending money  (excluding restricted credit  where that is not a credit-related activity);

or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
To understand whether  this is a complaint our service can consider Ive thought  carefully 
about exactly what Mr and Mrs B are complaining about. When  they first contacted  GE 
Money 2017 they wanted to make  a claim under s.75 of the CCA. GE Money declined their 
claim. Following this, Mr and Mrs B decided to refer GE Moneys decision to decline the 
claim under s.75 to our service. 
As noted by the investigator, exercising a creditors  rights and duties under a credit  
agreement is a regulated activity (Article 60(B)(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (Regulated Activities  Order 2001).
And one of the creditors duties is compliance  with s.75 of the CCA. Alternatively, GE 
Moneys consideration of the s.75 claim was ancillary to and carried on in connection with 
the regulated  activity  of exercising a creditors rights  and duties.  
So when Mr and Mrs B complain that GE Money  unfairly rejected their s.75 claim, the 
complaint they bring to us is that GE Money has not fulfilled its obligations in relation to the 
regulated credit agreement by failing to compensate them  for the suppliers alleged breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation. This event took place on or after 19 December 2017, after 
our consumer credit jurisdiction came into effect.
Ref: DRN16473843So I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  against GE Money  falls within the 
jurisdiction of our service and is one we can consider.
As the complaint falls within our services jurisdiction Ive gone on to consider the merits of 
the complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have  made a claim  under  s.75 of the CCA. And for s.75 to apply there needs 
to be a d-c-s relationship.  GE Money  originally said that as there wasnt  a d-c-s relationship,  
s.75 doesnt apply. It said this because  its loan was paid to a separate legal entity (A) and 
not to the timeshare company, the supplier of the product, and therefore  there  isnt a d-c-s 
relationship.     
The investigator noted that Mr and Mrs B provided  our service with a copy  of the Acquisition 
Agreement from the point of sale.  And was of the opinion that this agreement  clearly shows  
that Mr and Mrs B were entering  into an agreement with A, and A was responsible to supply 
membership to the timeshare company. The investigator also noted, and I agree with her, 
that it was reasonable that Mr and Mrs B assumed they were talking to the timeshare 
company at the point of sale, when it was clear from the documents  that what  they were told 
at the point of sale must have been explained by A. As GE Money has already said it paid 
the loan to A I agree with the investigator  that there is a d-c-s relationship between Mr and 
Mrs B, GE Money and A. And as Im satisfied there is a d-c-s relationship  I think s.75 does 
apply.
GE Money  has sought to time bar the claim made  by Mr and Mrs B under the Limitation  Act. 
If a consumers claim against the supplier,  A, has expired under the Limitation Act, this is 
something GE Money  could take into account  when considering the like claim against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits  which apply to various causes of action.
S2 of the Act is applicable  to causes of action founded in tort  which  includes 
misrepresentation claims:
An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the expiration  of six years from the date 
on which the cause  of action accrued.
S9 of the Act applies to actions for sums recoverable by statute:
(1) An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any enactment shall not be 
brought after the expiration of six years  from the date on which  the causes of action 
accrued.
I agree  with our investigator that whether  the debtors claim under s.75 of the CCA  is an 
action for a sum recoverable by statute or an action founded on tort wont usually lead to a 
difference in the limitation period. This is because both sections provide a six year limitation  
period. As s.75 of the CCA  makes  a lender jointly and severally liable for a suppliers 
misrepresentation it appears the cause of action under s2 will arise  at the same time as 
under s9.
As, under s.75 of the CCA,  GE money steps into the shoes of the supplier, to work out when 
the limitation clock  starts running, we need to work  out when it wouldve started if the claim  
had been brought directly against the supplier. 
Ref: DRN16473844Mr and Mrs B have  said that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, they paid a sum 
of money that caused them a loss. They have said that but for the misrepresentation they 
wouldnt have entered into the contract  at all. 
And as our investigator has said, the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was 
entered into, which was in December 2003.  Thats the moment when Mr and Mrs B accepted  
any potential benefit under the contract  as well as when they accepted the liability.
This would mean that Mr and Mrs B needed  to raise their complaint within  six years  of this 
date, so December  2009. However, they didnt raise their complaint  until 2017, nearly 14 
years after the damage occurred.
Ive gone on to consider s14A  of the Limitation Act, as in the circumstances I think  it is right 
to do so in case  it assists Mr and Mrs B. s14A states that the limitation  period is either the 
normal six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued, or, if later,  three years 
from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge required to bring  a 
claim for damages and the right to bring  such a claim.
I think its worth clarifying here that knowledge doesnt mean certainty;  its enough if the 
consumer knows or believes the facts  with sufficient confidence to start investigating the 
issue.
Mr and Mrs B have  said they became aware  there  had been misrepresentations within 
months of taking out the loan with GE Money.  So I think  its reasonable to conclude that they 
knew, or ought to have  known, that they had grounds for a potential  claim.
Whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs B may not have been aware of the time limits and their 
rights, the law generally doesnt accept that ignorance of the legal position is a good reason 
for extending the limitation period. The challenge here is that this could extend the limitation  
period indefinitely.
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide  whether or not any claim Mr and Mrs B may have 
against the supplier  or creditor has expired under  the Limitation Act. It seems  to me that any 
misrepresentation claim against the supplier and the like claim against  GE Money have  
exceeded the time limit under s2, s9 and s14A.  Therefore, it wouldnt be unreasonable  for 
GE Money  to take this into account when considering Mr and Mrs Bs s.75 claim against it.
I have thought about whether there are any other reasons which would make it fair and 
reasonable for GE Money to consider Mr and Mrs Bs s.75 claim and Im satisfied there 
arent.
To summarise:
Im satisfied  that the complaint is about  an event that falls within our services jurisdiction,
I think there is a valid d-c-s relationship, so GE Money are liable under s.75 of the CCA,
if a claim against the supplier has expired  under the Limitation Act, this is something GE 
Money could take into account when considering the like claim against  it,
ultimately it would  be for the courts to decide whether or not any claim Mr and Mrs B may 
have against the supplier or GE Money has expired, but to me it seems likely it has, and;
I dont believe there  are any other reasons which  would make it fair and reasonable for 
GE Money to consider  the s.75 claim.
Ref: DRN16473845my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against GE Money  Consumer Lending 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1647384