K821x#15complaint
Dr S and Mrs E complain that Lloyds  Bank  PLC failed to fulfil an international transfer in 
reasonable time. They say this led to significant  costs for them because a property purchase  
abroad fell through as a result.
background
On 30 January 2019, Dr S arranged for an international  funds transfer of around £33,000 
online from the Lloyds  account he held jointly with Mrs E. This was to make a payment for a 
property purchase abroad. When the funds  hadnt been received by 6 February, he 
contacted Lloyds to ask it to trace the payment. He also corrected a spelling error on the 
beneficiarys name. Dr S followed up again several  times between 8 and 15 February but the 
funds had still not arrived. Over that time, Lloyds contacted and provided additional 
information to the intermediary and correspondent  banks.
Dr S contacted Lloyds to recall the payment on 18 February as the property purchase had 
fallen through  due to the delay in payment. Lloyds asked the intermediary bank for a return 
of the funds and chased  on several  occasions  until the funds were returned to it on 4 March. 
The funds were then credited  to Dr S and Mrs Es account on 7 March.
Dr S complained to Lloyds about the delays but it rejected his complaint so he came to this 
service. Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld because  Lloyds had failed  
to provide an international transfer  within a reasonable time. She didnt think  there was 
evidence to show direct  costs were caused  by the delay  but she thought  Lloyds should  pay 
Dr S and Mrs E £200 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.  Neither  Lloyds nor Dr S 
and Mrs E agreed with this outcome so its come to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Lloyds offers  international funds transfers 
online and says these  will normally be completed  within 3-5 days. While this isnt 
guaranteed, I think it was reasonable to assume  Lloyds could provide this service  within  or 
close to this timeframe relying  on the services of intermediary banks to complete the 
transfer. 
I realise there were  several banks involved in the transfer but ultimately Lloyds was 
responsible for providing the service  in a timely manner. In this case,  there were delays and 
its unclear exactly why some of those delays occurred. But Lloyds received a request for 
further information from the beneficiary bank on 13 February and didnt respond  until 15 
February. While  two days may not be a long delay in some circumstances, as Lloyds was 
aware of the existing  delay and the urgency  of the matter, I dont think it dealt with this query  
sufficiently quickly. By the time it responded, the deadline for the property purchase had 
passed. After Dr S had cancelled the transfer  because it was too late to carry on with the 
purchase, there were delays in recalling  the funds.  Lloyds received the funds on 4 March but 
didnt put them back into Dr S and Mrs Es account until 7 March. 
Although there was initially a mistake in the name of the beneficiary, Ive not seen any 
evidence to show this is why the delays  occurred. In any event, the transfer had still not 
been made over ten days after this was corrected.  
Ref: DRN19491122I accept that Lloyds wasnt responsible for all the delays,  but I dont think  it dealt with the 
request for additional information  from the beneficiary bank or the return  of funds to the 
consumers account  with the urgency it should  have in the circumstances. Because  Dr S 
isnt able to provide evidence that the property transaction fell through, Im not able to award  
costs for this as I cant be sure these costs were  incurred as a result of the delay. I realise 
this will be a disappointment.  But its clear that the delays  did cause Dr S and Mrs E distress 
and inconvenience  in the context of an international property purchase.  So I find Lloyds 
should pay Dr S and Mrs E £200  as compensation for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is upheld. Lloyds Bank 
PLC should  pay Dr S and Mrs E £200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its 
contribution to the delays in the international transfer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Dr S and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 August 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1949112