K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with his home contents insurer Gresham Insurance Company Limited  
because it declined to settle a claim hed made  for a lost watch. 
background
Mr J called Gresham at the end of April 2018 stating  hed lost his watch  the day before whilst 
visiting and out walking with his son. The watch was specified on Mr Js policy as being  
worth £18,461. Gresham appointed  a loss adjuster who visited  Mr J on 11 May 2018  to 
discuss the claim. 
Following this visit the loss adjuster made further enquiries. In July 2018 the loss adjuster 
wrote to Mr J asking  him to explain some  issues and discrepancies that had been found with 
his claim.  Further  correspondence  took place and the loss adjuster sent two further letters 
regarding the issues they felt there were with Mr Js claim. In the last letter dated 
17 September 2018 the loss adjuster said that based on the evidence  currently  provided, it 
was felt that Mr J hadnt shown hed owned  the watch claimed  for and a decision had been 
made to decline the claim. 
Gresham then wrote to Mr J. It said it was satisfied that the decline, based on the current 
information available,  was correct. Reference  was made to the last letter sent by the loss 
adjuster and Gresham said that until the issues raised in that letter were resolved it wouldnt 
be able to consider  the matter further.
Mr J complained to this service. Our adjudicator felt that there was no basis on which  
Greshams decision could be fairly challenged.  In the circumstances she felt the decline was 
reasonable but noted that Gresham was prepared to resume  consideration of the claim if 
further evidence  and/or information was provided.
Mr J then found some further evidence  (a guarantee card for his watch)  and sent a photo of 
this to us. We shared  it with Gresham.  It said if Mr J wanted to send it the original  document 
it would  consider it  but he still need to answer the other concerns from the 17 September 
letter. Mr J said hed consider sending the document but generally felt hed proven  hed 
owned the watch claimed for and it was unfair  of Gresham to decline his claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All insurers have a duty to investigate and validate  claims. No insurer has to accept  that any 
or all evidence provided is genuine. They are at liberty to make enquiries and policyholders 
are expected to cooperate with that process,  which includes providing  further  reasonable 
evidence and explanation when discrepancies are found. If an insurer isnt satisfied that a 
claim has been satisfactorily substantiated  they are at liberty to decline it. If an insurer  
gathers sufficiently strong evidence in respect of some claims they might be minded to 
accuse a policyholder of fraud (attempting to gain a policy  benefit  to which  they arent 
entitled). But merely  having concerns that a claim hasnt been substantiated is often not 
enough to support a finding of fraud.
Ref: DRN16273492I know Gresham hasnt accused Mr J of fraud  here, but I know  he is worried  that is what  it is 
thinking. If Mr J chooses  to provide further  evidence  and Gresham continues  to investigate 
the matter then it is possible that the position of the parties might change in some way. If it 
does and Mr J is unhappy with that then he can make  a further complaint. As Mr J hasnt yet 
shared the original guarantee  card with Gresham I wont comment  on this. If he wishes  for 
further consideration of his claim to be undertaken then hell need to share this with 
Gresham first.
Based on the details  provided to the point of the letters sent by Gresham  and the loss 
adjuster, Im satisfied that Greshams decline of the claim is fair and reasonable. In essence 
its view that Mr J hasnt substantiated  that he owned the watch has merit because:
Mr Js report  of how and when he came  to own the watch has changed significantly 
during the course  of the claim  and not in ways that would seem to likely have resulted 
from any initial or subsequent failure to clearly remember  all the pertinent details.
The invoice provided has been  found  to be unreliable for a number of reasons.
The seller of the watch (as recorded on the invoice) cant be traced, in fact all enquiries 
suggest it is unlikely  to have existed at all.
There is little other  evidence to show Mr J owned the watch.
The photo (singular) provided cant be further  validated and items such as the box can 
be purchased as separates (meaning they arent  a clear indication  of a watch also 
having been owned).
It is true that this service often expects  insurers to take evidence  such as boxes into account 
when considering whether an item claimed for was owned. But we dont have a blanket 
policy saying that provision of such is always sufficient to substantiate  ownership.  Rather  
every case  has to be considered on its own merits. But it is the case  that where other 
significant issues in respect of substantiation  exist,  such as is the case here, we will often 
find it reasonable for an insurer  to view that items, like boxes for high value watches, hold 
little worth in terms of evidencing that the claimed  for high value watch was owned.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Gresham  Insurance  
Company Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1627349