K821x#15complaint
Mr Y and Mrs A complain  that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV)  didnt  pay all the 
medical expenses  Mrs A claimed  for on their travel insurance policy.
background
Mr Y and Mrs A were  on holiday  abroad  in November 2017 when Mrs A had a stroke.  She 
was taken to the nearest hospital,  which offered  private care. Mr Y gave hospital  staff details 
of the policy. He said they told him theyd contacted URV and all was well. But the next day 
URV called to say it wouldnt cover  the hospitals charges. When Mr Y spoke to URV it said 
the policy didnt  cover private treatment, so Mrs A should  be moved to a public hospital.  Mr Y 
said he wasnt going to put her in danger by doing  that. 
Mrs A stayed in the private hospital for four days. Initially, URV only paid for the cost of extra 
accommodation, travel and medication. It said Mr Y should have called it as soon as
possible after Mrs As admission. On reflection, URV said Mr Y may not have been  sure how 
the policy worked at the time of the incident.  So it said it would pay all of the first days 
hospital costs.  As the bill wasnt broken  down  by date, URV  thought  paying  a third of the 
overall cost was fair. It rounded up that sum to £1,250. 
Mr Y and Mrs A werent happy with that, but our adjudicator thought URV had acted 
reasonably. She said it could show it had told Mr Y on day two of Mrs As admission that she 
should be moved to a public hospital.  The adjudicator saw nothing on URVs file to show  that 
hospital staff had called URV on the first day. She thought it was reasonable for URV to 
expect Mrs A to move  to a public hospital  after her initial treatment, in line with the policys  
terms and conditions. So in her view, URVs offer to pay a third of the hospital bill was fair.
Mr Y insisted that URV  gave the hospital  permission to treat Mrs A on the day she was 
admitted. He said hed been told she couldnt  be moved after that. The adjudicator didnt 
think there was anything to support Mr Ys account  of events, so her view didnt  change. The 
complaint was then passed to me for review.
I said that in some circumstances we dont think its fair and reasonable for insurers  simply to 
rely on a policys terms and conditions. In this case,  Mrs A had suffered a stroke, so I 
thought it was reasonable for her to be taken  to the nearest  hospital.  Given  her condition, I 
could see why Mr Ys first thought wasnt to call URV. I accepted that he believed  hospital 
staff had done so on the first day - and that he thought URV had agreed to cover the cost of 
Mrs As treatment.  
I noted that URV accepted it didnt  make any enquiries about Mrs As health before advising 
Mr Y to move her. I didnt think that was reasonable. I thought Mrs A may have been well 
enough to transfer to another  hospital by the second  day. But I didnt  think  it was possible to 
say whether that was the case or not without any medical evidence. 
I didnt think there was any evidence that Mr Y was told Mrs A wasnt  well enough to be 
moved. But I could  see why he didnt think it would be safe to do so, given her recent  stroke. 
I thought URV should have established what Mrs As condition was before making its 
decision. But there was nothing to show that it had consulted its own medical  advisors or the 
medical staff that were  treating  Mrs A.
Ref: DRN10444172I thought that even  if it would have been  safe to move Mrs A, it would have been  necessary 
to find a public hospital within a reasonable distance  that that was able to take her. URV 
accepted that it didnt  check whether there was a suitable public  facility  with a bed for Mrs A. 
And it hadnt considered how she might get there.  I didnt think it was fair to expect Mr Y to 
agree to move Mrs A and sort these extra issues out without any help.  
I thought it seemed more likely than not that there  was some contact between the hospital 
and URV  on the day Mrs A was admitted. I couldnt  find anything in URVs records about it. 
But it was hard to see why the hospital would have  provided treatment to Mrs A otherwise. 
  
URV said it agreed to pay for a third of Mrs As treatment because it hadnt been  proactive at 
the time.  But that meant Mrs A and Mr Y still had to pay for most of her treatment  and four 
days stay in the hospital may well have been unavoidable. I said that as URV hadnt been 
proactive, it wasnt possible to say whether the overall costs could reasonably have been 
reduced. So I didnt think it was right to expect Mrs A and Mr Y to foot most of the bill.
I thought it would be fair and reasonable for URV  to pay for the full cost of Mrs As hospital 
stay. I also thought Mr Y and Mrs A had faced  a fair amount  of worry in terms of having  to 
settle most  of the bill with no guarantee of having  the cost reimbursed. Theyd been 
inconvenienced and had to complain  to URV. So I thought  it would also be reasonable for 
URV to pay them  £250  compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. URV accepted them  without 
further comment, as did Mr Y and Mrs A.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As the parties  have accepted my 
provisional findings without further comment, theres  no reason to depart from them.  I dont 
think URV acted reasonably here,  so I think  Mr Y and Mrs As complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Union Reiseversicherung AG to do 
the following:
 
Give Mrs A and Mr Y a refund  of the sum they paid for Mrs As hospital stay,  subject 
to evidence 
Add interest to the sum above, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mrs A and Mr Y £250  compensation for distress and inconvenience  
If URV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold  income  tax from 
the interest,  it should tell Mr Y and Mrs A how much its taken off. It should also give them  a 
tax deduction  certificate  if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Susan Ewins
Ref: DRN10444173ombudsman
Ref: DRN1044417