K820x#14Complaint
Mr R is unhappy at the interest and charges Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) added  to his 
overdraft over the years.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Rs concerns. She didnt think Lloyds had done  
anything wrong  or treated Mr R unfairly  and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
Mr R disagreed and so the complaint  was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything  provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further,  I want to be clear in saying that I havent  considered  whether the
various amounts  Lloyds  charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately  how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision.  And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said,  while Im not looking at Lloyds various charging structures per se, it wont have 
acted fairly  and reasonably towards  Mr R if it applied any interest, fees and charges to         
Mr Rs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to 
have been aware  Mr R was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered  whether 
there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr R fairly and reasonably. 
I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mr R unfairly  or unreasonably here though. I say this 
because having  looked at Mr Rs statements I cant see anything to suggest that Lloyds 
ought to have realised he might  have been  experiencing  financial difficulty prior to it being  
notified of this. I accept  that Mr R was using his overdraft regularly. But it is clear  that funds 
were going  into the account which reduced the outstanding balance and even brought it into 
credit. 
Equally while Im not seeking to make  retrospective  value judgements over Mr Rs 
expenditure, nonetheless  there are significant  amounts of non-committed,  non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions going  from the account. Furthermore,  the amount being 
credited to Mr Rs account each  month  didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect 
of him seeing a credit balance at any stage  either.
I accept neither of these  things in themselves (or taken together)  mean  that Mr R wasnt  
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions  in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Lloyds to any potential financial  difficulty. So, in these 
circumstances I dont  think  that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed  with adding the 
interest, fees and charges it did until Mr R got in touch. Id also add that when  Mr R did get in 
touch, Lloyds froze the interest and charges on the account and placed him on a repayment  
plan. So, in these  circumstances,  I do think that Lloyds didnt treat Mr R unfairly.
Ref: DRN11536512Ive also seen what Mr R has said about Lloyds not offering him a consolidation loan. But   
Mr R did take out a loan, with Lloyds, which he used to repay his overdraft  in 2013. So I think  
that he would have known that this might be a possibility subject to a successful application.  
Mr R may be unhappy that he wasnt proactively offered a freezing of the charges and the 
repayment plan he was later on. But bearing in mind  the associated  implications, Id only 
expect a bank  to proactively offer this as a solution  in the event it ought  reasonably  to have 
seen that a consumer may have been experiencing financial difficulty. And for the reasons 
Ive already explained, I dont think that was the case here.  
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds treated  Mr R unfairly or 
unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate  that this will 
be very disappointing for Mr R  especially as hes been waiting some  time for this answer. 
But I hope hell understand  the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1153651