K820x#14complaint
M&B Ltd says Santander UK plc were responsible for multiple  failings when it tried to open a 
business account.
background
M&B tried to open  a business account in July 2018. It raised various  concerns  about the 
process it had to go through and how Santander handled things. M&B says that during the 
application it was misled, ignored  and misinformed.  Ultimately it says the bank was 
responsible for loss of earnings.
Santander acknowledged that it didnt  get everything  right.  For example it accepts that in 
dealing with M&B it didnt  communicate effectively how long it could take to set up a 
business account. It offered £150 for the trouble  it had caused.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. M&B  disagreed so its complaint has come to me for 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding M&Bs complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Ive thought carefully about what M&B told me about  what  happened when it tried to open a 
business account. Ive looked at the evidence  it supplied such  as the email correspondence 
it had with the bank. Ive also considered Santanders case  file 
I recognise why M&B is very frustrated by what happened. I can see it was given the 
impression a decision about whether it could have a business account with Santander  would 
be quicker than it was. Ive no reason to doubt M&B was initially told it would only take a few 
days for an answer. And as the process  unfolded I can see that further indications of when a 
decision would be reached  were indicated and subsequently  missed.
I also appreciate Santander must carry out due diligence before opening accounts. This is 
not only a commercial consideration about which  companies it wants  to do business  with, 
but also theres important  legislation  it must adhere  to. For example, anti-money laundering 
regulations place obligations  on financial businesses to have suitable systems in place for 
customer identification. Financial institutions  must establish the purpose and intended nature 
of a business as well as the origin  of funds, and there can be penalties  if they dont.
Some of the delays M&B experienced  happened when Santanders underwriters asked  for 
more details about the business. Although its arguable that a more comprehensive 
information request  at the outset wouldve cut down the to and fro required, and there was 
some repetition in coverage, the questions appear relevant to the decision Santander had to 
make.
I havent seen  a deliberate attempt by Santander staff to mislead or misinform M&B about 
the process of opening account. Rather,  they did fail to effectively  manage  M&Bs 
expectations about how soon it might be given  an answer and what  the process  would 
Ref: DRN18670592involve. Santander  has accepted these  failings and offered M&B £150 for the trouble it 
caused.
M&B also allege that Santander  lied. For example, following expressions of dissatisfaction 
about how long it was taking to open  its business account it says it was told its application 
for an account would  be escalated. M&B doesnt  think this happened.
While what Santanders staff had committed to mayve been ineffectively communicated to 
M&B, I can see that on at least  two occasions its concerns about delay were followed  up  
once to chase  the underwriters for a decision and once through  a staff members  manager. I 
cant fairly say that Santander misled M&B here.
M&B says it should be compensated  for lost earnings. It says that when it opened an 
account with a different bank this only took thirteen days. It says if Santanders process  had 
been as efficient it wouldve had an answer  in early August  2018  instead of mid-September  
2018. It says its lost 39 days of trading because of whats happened.
Different banks have different lending criteria, processes  and people.  M&B wanted to use 
Santander because  of its existing relationship with the bank. That was a decision it took. But 
there was never a guarantee its application would be accepted. 
As Santander declined its application for a business account it had to look elsewhere. That 
led to a delay  in getting things started   two weeks as it materialised. If time had been critical 
M&B it couldve  explored alternative  accounts in parallel to mitigate  for the risk of a failed 
application.
M&B also hasnt really explained  why the delay  to opening its business account meant that 
the website, which drove  its trading and had been due to go live in September or October 
2018, had to be delayed until December 2018. But even  if I accepted  this argument, there  
are many uncertainties about what mightve  happened had things gone more smoothly.
M& B has provided sales information  for its first week of operations  in support of its claim for 
lost earnings. But I dont think extrapolating from such thin trading data is reliable. Does  the 
first week  of sales  represent a launch bounce? Does it reflect the proximity of seasonal  
spending? When  did marketing of M&Bs business commence  do sales  figures include 
pent up demand? What  would  any loss have been  after overheads  and tax? And so on.
So while the point M&B has made with regard to loss of earnings  isnt without merit, on 
balance it hasnt done enough  to make me think Santander  should pay compensation for 
this. The loss claimed is too speculative.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out Im not upholding M&Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M&B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18670593
Ref: DRN1867059