K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains about the quality of the repairs carried out by AXA Insurance UK Plc when 
he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
The front bumper of Mr Zs car was damaged in an accident. AXAs repairer  noted  that there 
was a fair amount of pre-existing  damage  on the car. Much of it was scratches and chips to 
the paintwork.  It replaced the bumper  and painted the bonnet  and wings to blend it in with 
the rest of the car. Mr Z said the repairer  shouldnt have done that. He said it was now 
obvious the car had been in an accident,  as the new paintwork didnt match the original 
paintwork. He said that was partly due to the marks in the paintwork being painted over. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Zs complaint. He said the photos supplied by AXA 
didnt show the car after it had been repainted. In his opinion,  the photos Mr Z gave us were  
taken too close  to the car to show any difference in the colour of the paintwork. The 
investigator didnt  think  it was unreasonable for AXA to try to blend the new bumper in with 
the rest of the car. He noted that the repairer had said repairing the chips before painting 
over them would have  put Mr Z in a better  position  than he was before the accident. 
The investigator told Mr Z that hed be willing to look at any further evidence he provided, but 
to date Mr Z hasnt sent anything more to us. 
As Mr Z didnt accept the investigators  view,  his complaint was passed to me for review
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
It cost AXA more to paint the bonnet  and the wings than it would have done just to replace 
the bumper. I dont think the extra  expense  would have  been  authorised  unless the engineer 
thought it was necessary. The engineer thought  the painting should be done to blend  the 
colour of the new bumper  with the front of the car. I think  AXA was entitled to rely on the 
engineers view. Given that view, I think its unlikely that Mr Z would have been happy with 
the way the car looked with a new bumper only.
I think its unfortunate that there  were  scratches and chips in the original paintwork that had 
to be painted over. In my view, it was reasonable for AXA not to repair  the pre-existing 
damage. Had the old marks in the paintwork been  repaired, the new paintwork may not have 
been as obvious to Mr Z as he thinks it is. But the cost of the repairs would have risen 
further, and he would  have been put in a better  position than he was in before the accident. 
In my opinion, the photos on the file dont show the difference in the colour of the paintwork 
that Mr Z has complained  about. So I cant comment on whether I think  its poorly matched. 
Mr Z believes AXAs repairer did work it shouldnt have done - and in doing so made  the 
cars appearance worse.  I know hes upset by what happened, but I can only base my 
decision on the information available to me. I dont think Mr Z has shown that it was 
unreasonable for the repairer to have painted the bonnet and wings to blend in. And he 
hasnt provided  photos  that show the paintwork is poorly matched. 
Ref: DRN15401472In the circumstances, despite  Mr Zs distress about  the issues, I cant uphold his complaint.     
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1540147