K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006 
alongside a hire purchase agreement.  Mr L says John  F Hutchings  Limited  (LFH) mis-sold 
him the PPI.
my findings
I completed a provisional decision on 18 April 2019,  which is attached  and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Ive reconsidered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  Having  done so, I still dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
Neither party responded with any evidence or comments for me to consider. So based on 
my previous  findings,  and in the absence of any new information, I see no reason to change 
my mind  about this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  an insurance policy taken  out with a hire purchase agreement  in
2006. The policy provided Mr L with life and critical  illness cover. And he says John F
Hutchings Limited  (JFH) mis-sold it to him.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done that, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN15065212Mr L says he was told he was more likely to be accepted for the hire-purchase  agreement if he took 
out an insurance policy.  But hes not told us much  more about what was said at the time.  Ive seen a 
copy of the application for insurance Mr L saw and signed. This shows there was both a yes and no 
box for the cover  and the yes box has been ticked. Ive also seen that there were different levels of 
cover available, of which the basic cover has been selected, but I think this shows that Mr L had the 
option to decide the type of cover he wanted, or to decline the cover altogether.  
Mr L also says he was pressured into taking the policy. But Ive not seen any evidence to support this 
allegation. And even though I dont know what exactly was discussed at the time,  the sale took place 
around 13 years  ago, so its difficult to rely on what Mr L says alone to fairly and reasonably conclude 
that he didnt have a choice in taking out the policy. So overall I think  its more likely that JFH made  it 
clear the policy was optional, and Mr L chose to take it out  although  I can understand if he cant  
remember this now.
JFH recommended the policy to Mr L so it had to check that it was right him. Our adjudicator  upheld  
the complaint because she felt that the policy  wasnt right for Mr L as she didnt think Mr L had a need 
for the cover. She said this on the basis that Mr L wasnt married and didnt have any dependants at 
the time. So the adjudicator  felt that there wasnt anyone who would benefit  from Mr L having  this 
cover in place. However, I disagree. Mr L has told us that he had a partner and around that time, or 
soon after, they had a child together. So I think cover  that wouldve paid off Mr Ls agreement  if he 
died couldve been useful for his partner and child.
This cover also provided critical illness cover. Mr L says that at the time he was entitled to some sick 
pay, which  he couldve used to keep up his repayments. But I think if Mr L fell critically ill he wouldve 
found the policy useful  as it wouldve paid out a lump sum on top of his sick pay  so these funds  
couldve been  used  to maintain any other commitments. And based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I havent seen anything which I think wouldve  meant he was affected by 
any of the usual  exclusions to or limits  on this type of cover. So overall I think the cover was suitable  
for him.
Its possible the information JFH gave Mr L about the policy wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But 
he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And for the same reasons  I think  
the policy  was suitable, I dont think better information about it wouldve put him off taking out the 
cover.
my provisional  decision
Overall, for the reasons  outlined above, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 18 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1506521