K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
Background
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1994.  Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr P in case  he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs P, I have not found that his policy  was mis-sold 
 Ill explain why.
This sale was two and a half decades ago and the accounts involved have long since  
closed, so I think its understandable  that neither side have the original  documents from the 
time. Indeed, under  data protection rules Halifax were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ps 
data rather than hold onto it for too long. Mr and Mrs P dont remember  being told PPI was 
voluntary or being asked about  their circumstances, and I dont doubt theyve given us their 
best recollections. But I also need  to be conscious  that memories  can, and do, fade over 
time, that this sale was particularly long ago, and that the sale of insurance is not often 
memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most  likely to have happened based  on the 
limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have added  the PPI without Mr and 
Mrs Ps permission,  or to have misled them into thinking it was compulsory. But I have no 
evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen  any wider problems with 
its sales process from the time. And this sale was too long ago for me to reasonably expect 
Halifax to be able to produce evidence from the time to defend  itself now.  So I dont think  
I have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr and Mrs P. I think  its more  
likely that it followed a relatively standard sales process, gave them  a choice, and that they 
chose PPI at the time  even if, understandably, they no longer  recall doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether  Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs P, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs P, 
Ive assumed that it did. That means Halifax had to check the policy  was right for them  and 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr P was the majority earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt  affected by 
any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN13158612The PPI covered Mr P for twice as long as his sick pay and helped fill the gap left when it 
reduced to just half pay  a serious  drop in income. And based on what  hes told us, it 
covered him for longer than his redundancy pay did around the time of the sale.  The policy 
paid out on top of his work  benefits, and didnt reduce because of them.  Mr and Mrs P only 
had a relatively small amount of available cash savings. Their  other  investments were  tied 
into schemes that werent suitable to be used  to cover short-term  repayments issues,  and 
had penalties for early  withdrawal. For example,  the bulk of those investments were  in a 
scheme where early  withdrawal meant  losing  every single penny  of profit and being barred 
from re-entering the scheme.  On the other hand,  the PPI meant  Mr and Mrs P could protect  
their savings and investments and wouldnt have to sacrifice one asset  to cover another.
Mr and Mrs P pointed  out that Mr P was never unemployed for more  than a couple of 
months, and while  I do understand their point thats  something they only know in hindsight. 
Redundancies and long periods of unemployment  can and do happen, even in industries 
that seems secure. The mortgage was a very significant, long-term  commitment, and there 
was no guarantee  that Mr P would have  the same  employment  situation, benefits, or savings 
in the many years to come.  And if Mr and Mrs P had fallen  behind  on their mortgage 
payments, they couldve lost their home. So it seems reasonable for them to have insured 
Mr P to protect  their home and give themselves some peace of mind.  
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs P about  PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr P wasnt  affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case something 
went wrong. The policy was competitively  priced  given how much it would pay out in a claim. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly  basis, so Mr and Mrs P could  cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall,  I dont  think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 September 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1315861