K821x#15complaint
Ms V (by way of a representative) says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  
irresponsibly lent to her and didnt carry out proper  affordability checks. 
background
Ms V took 4 loans from QuickQuid between August 2009 and February 2010. Although all 
the loans have been repaid, it seems  that Ms V had some difficulties repaying her final loan.
A summary  of Ms Vs borrowing, based on the information provided to us from QuickQuid,  
can be found in the table  below;
loan number loan amount received dateactual  
repayment datenumber of 
instalments
1 £200.00 27/08/2009 15/10/2009 2
2 £400.00 21/10/2009 15/12/2009 1
3 £800.00 16/12/2009 27/01/2010 2
4 £150.00 01/02/2010 16/06/2010 2
Our adjudicator didnt  think that QuickQuid shouldve given Ms V loans 3 and 4 because the 
final contractual payment for loan 3 represented  a significant portion of Ms Vs declared  
income. This indicated  the loan, and any subsequent  loan was not sustainable and so 
shouldnt have been given. 
Ms V appears to have accepted the adjudicators view. 
QuickQuid didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. In response QuickQuid, made a 
number of points;
the largest repayment for loan 3 did take up a large portion of Ms Vs income, but
Ms V couldve set aside  money from the first month in order  to repay the final 
balloon payment 
there was nothing in the way that Ms V repaid  loans 1 and 2 that gave it cause for 
concern and
the adjudicator  didnt  provide any specific details about  Ms Vs financial position from 
either her bank statements or credit file
These points didnt change the adjudicators mind. As no agreement  could be reached, the 
case has been passed to me for a final decision.  
Neither Ms V nor QuickQuid provided any further  comments about the lending decisions for 
loans 1 and 2. So it seems to me that these loans are no longer in dispute. It therefore 
follows, that I wont be making a finding  on these loans in this decision. 
. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN13088582QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to figure out 
whether Ms V could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So QuickQuid was required to establish  whether Ms V could  sustainably  repay her loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable  on this basis might  be an indication Ms V 
could sustainably make  her repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Vs complaint.
Like the adjudicator,  I agree that proportionate checks  for loans 3 and 4 would most likely 
have shown that:
Ms Vs loan repayment represented a significant  proportion of her monthly  income. In 
these circumstances,  there was a significant  risk that Ms V wouldnt have been able 
to repay  this loan without undue difficulty or without borrowing further. I dont think 
that QuickQuid could reasonably have believed that Ms V would be able to make the 
payment over two pay periods  bearing  in mind shed failed to repay lower  amounts 
for loans one and two (loan one under similar  arrangements), without her needing to 
borrow again a few days later. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 3 and 4 and QuickQuid should put things right.
Ref: DRN13088583putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms V paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 and 4 from Ms Vs credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires CashEuroNet UK LLC to take off tax from this interest. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC must  give Ms V a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Ms Vs complaint. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right for Ms V as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1308858