K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that when  he made a claim on his legal  expenses insurance policy,  LAMP  
Insurance Company Limited  wouldnt  pay all the disbursements incurred by his solicitors 
during the legal claim.
background
Mr S took out an After  the Event (ATE) insurance  policy to provide  cover for his legal fees for 
a claim he wanted to bring against  a third party. The claim was concluded  and his solicitors 
asked LAMP to pay the fees covered by the policy. LAMP paid some of the fees requested 
but didnt agree to pay the medical fees without  a full breakdown of these.
The solicitors had used  a medical agency to obtain  the expert medical reports needed as 
part of the claim. The solicitor  provided invoices from the medical  agency  for charges 
amounting to around £1,300. 
As LAMP didnt  agree  to pay any of the fees, Mr S complained to our service. His solicitors  
raised a number of points  on his behalf,  including:
The breakdown  already provided  is more than reasonable.
The only question is whether the medical agency  fees were reasonably and properly 
incurred. Due to the nature of the claim a medical report would be needed.  The policy 
also confirms the need for a medical report. So the medical report  was reasonable. 
And as a report was provided, its reasonable to pay for it.
The invoices provided are in line with other medical agencies, and other underwriters 
have accepted similar invoices. LAMP  has been  invited to provide evidence to 
dispute that the costs were reasonable.
A medical agency was required to help with arranging  the medical report close  to the 
clients location. They also allow a deferred payment arrangement which  wouldnt be 
possible if the experts were instructed directly.  
Our investigators initial view was that it was reasonable  to claim the fees,  since the policy  
terms dont set a limit on disbursements or say these must be authorised in advance. He 
thought it was reasonable for Mr Ss solicitors to use an agency to arrange  the medical 
reports. And he said LAMP had taken a long time to deal with the claim  if it needed more 
evidence, it could have  requested this earlier.
  
LAMP disagreed.  It provided detailed comments,  including legal points about whether the 
agencys charges  (as opposed  to the fee for the actual medical reports) were truly 
disbursements or work for which the solicitors were responsible, as well as arguments  about 
what VAT could legally be claimed.  And it said the amounts being claimed couldnt be said to 
be reasonable without a proper breakdown  of how they were calculated.  
After considering these  further comments our investigator concluded  that it was for the 
policyholder to prove their claim, and without a breakdown of those costs,  it wasnt  possible 
to say if they were  reasonable. So on the information provided, it was reasonable for LAMP  
not to pay the fees. But if Mr Ss solicitors could  provide a more detailed  breakdown hed 
expect LAMP to reconsider. 
Mr Ss solicitors  didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision. They  have made 
some further  comments. Ive summarised some  of these as follows:
Ref: DRN14985242There was unreasonable delay by LAMP in dealing with the claim, and during that 
period it didnt make Mr S aware there was any issue with the disbursements.
The disbursements were reasonably and properly incurred, and they are in line with 
industry standard, as shown by independent  evidence they have provided.
Despite supplying so much information  they have been pushed  to obtain further 
information, which is unreasonable  and in some cases  impossible to obtain. If LAMP  
hadnt delayed  so long, Mr S would have been able to get the experts  invoices.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say LAMP will pay disbursements  that are reasonably  and properly 
incurred in pursuing  the claim.  Theres no dispute  that it was reasonable to obtain medical 
evidence  Mr S needed  it to pursue  his legal case. And its reasonable to expect there  will 
be some  fees for this. The issue is not whether its reasonable to pay for medical evidence.   
That doesnt  mean an insurer should have  to pay whatever is charged,  however much  it is. 
LAMP is entitled to check how the fees have been incurred, to decide whether the amount 
being claimed is reasonable. 
Although Mr Ss solicitors  have provided some  details about the charges, these dont provide 
a detailed breakdown. For example, they dont say when the activities  were carried  out or 
who did them, how much  time has been  spent, how many letters sent or how many phone  
calls made.  
Mr Ss solicitors  have said LAMP delayed dealing with the claim and should have requested 
this information  sooner;  they cant get a further breakdown  now without further cost. I 
appreciate it has taken some time for LAMP to deal with this. But I dont think  this means  the 
information shouldnt  be provided. The solicitors would have been aware of the risk of the 
insurer scrutinising the costs claimed when deciding to use a medical  agency.  So its 
reasonable to expect  them to obtain  details if they want  LAMP  to consider  these  costs.
I appreciate the solicitors  have said the fees are comparable with other  medical agencies  
and other  underwriters have accepted those levels of fees.  But I have to look at this 
particular case.  The amount of work  needed  may be different in each case.  So whats  
charged in another case doesnt necessarily  help decide what  was reasonable in this case. 
Ive considered evidence they have provided  from another insurer.  Although they say they 
wouldnt tend to question  fees like this, that doesnt necessarily mean they would never 
question them. 
In any event, the fact that another insurer might not seek such a detailed breakdown doesnt 
mean LAMP cant do so. LAMP  has given examples of other charges for similar reports  that 
are lower  and said, as these charges are noticeably higher, it would like a breakdown  
explaining the reasons. Where someone is asking their insurer  to pay large sums of money 
for disbursements,  I think its reasonable to provide evidence of how those disbursements 
have been calculated. In these circumstances  I agree that its reasonable for LAMP  to 
request a breakdown. If thats provided, Id expect  LAMP to consider it. But as it stands, my 
view is that LAMPs decision  not to pay the disbursements is reasonable 
Ref: DRN14985243my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1498524