K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way their home insurance claim for water damage  was 
dealt with by China  Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd.
background
Mr and Mrs M contacted their insurance company about a water leak in their house.  They  
were having  problems with a loss of pressure in their boiler  system. During an investigation 
they say a leak was discovered in their water  pipes. So they spoke to their insurance  
company and then contacted a specialist company  to find out where the leak was.
Mr and Mrs M said there appeared to be a water  leak under the flooring. But they were  
advised to do nothing until the leak became apparent due to the cost of digging up the floor. 
Mr and Mrs M contacted their insurance company to claim for the cost of the investigation 
but they were  told China Taiping wouldnt accept  the claim as no damage had been found. 
So they want China Taiping to pay for their costs after deducting the policy  excess.
China Taiping said the insurance policy provided cover  for damage caused by escaped 
water but no claim had been  submitted  in that respect. There was no evidence the property 
had suffered water damage.  China Taiping said the policy did provide cover for the cost of 
tracing leaks that were  causing damage. But the source of the leak hadnt been identified  
and in fact there was no evidence a leak was taking place.
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied with China Taipings  response. So they contacted our service  
and our investigator looked  into the matter. He looked at the report  and supporting emails 
and noted that the inspection couldnt  find a drop in the system pressure. There  was a 
mention of a very minimal  reading.  But there was no indication of a leak under the flooring. 
And he didnt think China Taiping had acted unfairly in declining the claim. So our 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. Theyre continuing to experience problems with the pressure in 
their boiler system.  And theyd been informed the cost of the leak detection  would be 
covered by their policy. So theyve  asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how frustrating this has been  for Mr and Mrs M. They  had to top up the 
pressure of their heating system on a regular basis. And they were advised  a water leak 
might be causing the problem.  
Mr and Mrs M say further investigation suggested  a couple of areas  where a leak might be 
occurring. But they were advised not to carry out any further work until there  was a visible 
sign of damage.  Mr and Mrs M say their insurers have refused to cover the cost of the 
investigations undertaken so far. So Ive looked  carefully at whats  happened.
The policy provides buildings  and contents  insurance for Mr and Mrs Ms property. Its 
intended to provide protection  against lost or damage. But on this occasion  Ive not seen any 
evidence of loss or damage caused by either  the boiler system  or leaking water.
Ref: DRN14422332I can see from the plumbers correspondence that they were  unable to locate  a leak in the 
heating system. They  couldnt find a drop in pressure and only detected  a slight  sign which  
they said mightve been a ghost reading  as it was so small. But theres  no mention of 
underfloor leaks. The plumber did suggest Mr and Mrs M use a leak sealant in their system.  
And thered been no drop in pressure when the plumber checked with Mr and Mrs M a few 
weeks later.
I know Mr and Mrs M say they were told it wasnt worth digging  up the flooring to see if there 
was a leak. And that would make sense if the readings didnt indicate anything out of the 
ordinary. There was no point in incurring additional  repair costs if there wasnt  any evidence 
that a leak was taking place and damaging  the property.
Although Mr and Mrs M say they were told the cost of finding the leak would be covered 
there isnt any evidence a leak is taking place.  The cover  is intended  to give financial 
assistance to trace  the source  of a leak thats  causing damage to the property. But the only 
issue seems to be an ongoing problem with system pressure that might be happening for a 
number of reasons.
I realise Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed with this outcome. But theres  no actual damage 
to the property or indication that a water leak is taking place. China Taiping has said it will 
reconsider the claim if Mr and Mrs M can provide  evidence that a water leak is damaging  the 
property. But based on what  Ive seen I cant say China Taiping has acted unfairly in 
declining the claim.  And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020 .
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1442233