K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say National  Westminster Bank  Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs P bought the policy  in 2009 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. Due to 
the time that has passed, its not certain how Mr and Mrs P applied for their mortgage and 
PPI policy, but Mr and Mrs P have said it was in a meeting. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr P for accident and sickness   subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £498.35  a month towards Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage balance in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost £14.95  a month. 
At the time,  Mr P was employed as a support  worker. He has told us he was entitled  to at 
least six months of sick pay through his employer. Mr P has said he had a medical condition  
some time before the sale. 
Mrs P was a joint party to the mortgage and was not in employment  at the time of the sale. 
She wasnt covered  under  the PPI policy as it was in Mr Ps sole name. 
NatWest has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 2009.  
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ps representative  says:
NatWest failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs P 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and     
Mrs Ps representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NatWest should  have 
told Mr and Mrs P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NatWest should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs P 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN19940962The information Mr and Mrs P received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs P disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2009 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN19940963In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NatWest, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so NatWest was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NatWest  gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs P with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for Mr P, given his 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether NatWest gave Mr and Mrs P sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
Ref: DRN19940964including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs P, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs P 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs P 
and NatWest, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs P know they had a choice?
NatWest had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
NatWest have given  me copies of a number of documents that Mr and Mrs P saw at the time 
of the sale. This included  a PPI application  form in which cover was requested for Mr P only 
and they specifically requested accident  and sickness cover only. In the mortgage 
application, there was a separate  section for PPI that confirmed the cover  had been 
requested in Mr Ps name only and that the monthly benefit would be £498.35 in the event of 
a successful claim. Finally, the mortgage offer set out that the PPI had been requested and 
that it was an optional feature, as well as the monthly premium  being £14.95.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs P knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NatWest provide  advice?
NatWest says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr and Mrs P cant remember, which  
is understandable as the sale was some  time ago now. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
NatWest gave a tailored  recommendation  for the PPI, so I think  its more likely it didnt 
provide advice.
This means  NatWest didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs P. Instead, 
it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr and Mrs P to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs P were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr P 
was unable to work  through accident or sickness) and of the approximate costs. Ive reached 
this conclusion because  I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs P would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and as discussed  above, the monthly premium  
was clearly set out in the mortgage offer.
Ref: DRN19940965But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NatWest gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs P agreed to take out the 
policy. 
So I dont  think NatWest  gave Mr and Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ps representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and  
Mrs Ps. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ps representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs P about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ps representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs P have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that NatWest ought  to have done either. 
what effect did NatWests  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs P? To what extent  did Mr 
and Mrs P suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found NatWest didnt do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs P. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and   
Mrs P suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs P would  have still taken out the policy, had NatWest  done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs P say they would not have taken it out and believe that I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs P had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr P being  unable to work. 
Ref: DRN19940966As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs P chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs P thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs P have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs P were given about  the cost and benefit was clear.  But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions, wasnt 
as clear as it should have  been.  
Im not persuaded NatWest made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs P would get back in return 
in the event they made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ps 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs P thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr P 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr P be unable  to 
do his own job or a similar  job which his, education,  training  or ability  reasonably 
qualified him to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs P pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy was not as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs P from 
taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mr Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr P says he had a medical condition some  
time before the PPI was taken out, the policy didnt exclude cover for existing medical 
conditions. And I havent seen any evidence  to suggest he wouldve been  caught by any of 
the significant exclusions. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr P would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs P had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr P was unable  to do both 
his job or a similar occupation that, in the insurers view, he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into Mr and Mrs Ps thinking about what they would have  
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
Ref: DRN19940967may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr P was unable (through disability) to 
carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
NatWest may not have  told Mr and Mrs P that any claim they made would be limited to a   
12-month. This may have differed from what they expected  and might  have hoped for  but 
12 months was a longer period than Mr P would  have  received full sick pay for.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs P would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr P be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk 
and might potentially  help preserve Mr Ps sick pay for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs P would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr P was unable to work through accident or disability. In the 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs P would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and      
Mrs Ps circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs P found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs P believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. Im not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
Ref: DRN19940968represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs P in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude NatWest  should pay Mr and Mrs P compensation, as that would put them  in a 
better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs P think NatWest misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
NatWests statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NatWest  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs P, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2009 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ps representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find NatWest negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs P and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that NatWest  had been  in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs P in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 May 2021.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1994096