K821x#15complaint
Miss B says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle  Buck) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about two payday loans (chain 1) and two instalment loans (chain 2) Uncle 
Buck provided to Miss B between October 2014  and August 2017.  Miss Bs borrowing 
history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Highest repayment
1 (chain 1) 31/10/2014 14/11/2014 1 £100.00 £134.00
2 (chain 1) 24/11/2014 13/12/2014 1 £75.00 £101.00
3 (chain 2) 26/04/2017 26/07/2017 3 £175.00 £91.00
4 (chain 2) 01/08/2017 May 2018 3 £200.00 £102.00
Miss B has said she should not have been  given the loans as they were  unaffordable. Uncle 
Buck has said it did nothing wrong with providing the loans  and assessed  Miss Bs 
affordability correctly.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Bs complaint  and thought all the loans  loans 1 to 4  should  
not have been given.  Uncle Buck disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN13955222refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Lending is unaffordable  if its clear the customers disposable  income  wasnt enough to make 
the payments  for the borrowing at the time it was taken out. And I can see from what  we 
know about Miss Bs finances that she had little disposable income. 
As Ive said above,  in order for Miss Bs loan to be sustainably  affordable  for her, she 
needed to be able to make  the repayments on time, while  meeting  other  reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  again.  I can see from the information  Uncle  Buck 
obtained before lending  that Miss B had little income left over after meeting her usual 
monthly living costs and credit commitments.
Miss B declared monthly expenses of between £795  and £895  against a monthly income of 
£1,000 when taking out loans 1 to 4. I thought  Uncle  Buck had enough information  to see 
that Miss B was likely to have little to no disposable  income left to afford the repayments  on 
loans 1 to 4. Or at the very least the results  shouldve prompted Uncle Buck  to carry out 
further checks. 
For example, from what I can see of loan 2 Miss B had £105 left after paying  her usual 
monthly commitments and had to make a payment of £101  to Uncle  Buck. That would  leave 
her with just £4 for any unexpected expenses and leaves  almost no margin  for error in terms 
of her declared expenditure  which is after all only an estimate.
Uncle Buck  has said Miss B had capacity to meet  unexpected expenses. But I dont think  
thats likely  to be true, especially for loans 2-4 where  the amount left over after the loans is 
£49 (for a one month  loan) and £59 and £48 (for three month  loans).
Uncle Buck  had to make  sure the loan was sustainably affordable. So I think it ought to have 
realised that leaving  Miss B with disposable income  (after the loan repayment) was most 
likely to cause her difficulties. So it was wrong  to give loan 1 to 4.
Ref: DRN13955223putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans 1 to 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 1 to 4 from Miss Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Bs complaint. Uncle  Buck Finance LLP put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February  2020.
 
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1395522