K821x#15Complaint
Mr K complains Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked  and closed  his bank accounts. He says this 
caused him significant trouble and upset as he couldnt pay his bills. And his credit file now 
has negative information. He wants all Barclays  to compensate him for the impact this all 
had on him.
background
Mr K had four accounts with Barclays.
On 27 July 2018, Barclays closed all of Mr Ks accounts  immediately and it asked him to 
provide it with proof of his entitlement to the funds in his accounts. 
Mr K visited  his local branch on 27 July 2018 and provided all the information to Barclays. 
And he asked Barclays to release the money  in his accounts. Barclays said it needed  to 
review the information  Mr K had provided  and that this would take approximately  10 days.
Whilst completing its review Barclays realised it had made a mistake when it had decided to 
close Mr Ks accounts. It released Mr Ks funds to him on 24 August 2018. Barclays  also 
apologised, and said it was willing to reopen Mr Ks accounts. And offered him £1,500 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by it wrongly closing Mr Ks accounts and 
blocking his funds.
Mr K didnt accept Barclays offer. He said that hed been a good customer  of the bank for 
more than 20 years and had always maintained his accounts properly. He said because  his 
accounts were closed, he had to go to the trouble of rearranging nearly 20 direct debits 
which were set up across two of his accounts,  to make sure all his bills were paid. And he 
had no access to his money for three weeks  because Barclays blocked his funds. So, he 
had to borrow money from his family, which he found upsetting and embarrassing. 
Mr K says because of Barclays mistake he couldnt  keep up with his mortgage payments. 
And he now has missed payment markers on his credit file relating  to two mortgages  he has 
with lenders I will refer to as A and B. Hes also said that he was refused a buy to let 
mortgage as a result of the markers.  And his health has suffered  as a result  of the stress 
Barclays mistake  caused. He says the £1,500 Barclays has offered isnt enough  to reflect  
the amount of trouble  and upset hes been caused. He wants £30,000. So, he brought his 
complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint. And he asked for some more information  about 
Mr Ks credit  file and mortgage  application.  Mr K said he couldnt  provide anything to show  
hed applied  and been refused a mortgage. And said that he hadnt set up his mortgage 
payment to B until September  2018 due to the amount of stress he was under. 
The investigator also looked at Mr Ks credit file. He noted that Mr K had two missed 
payments for a mortgage  he had with A in March and April 2018, which  was before Barclays 
closed his account. And one missed mortgage  payment for borrowing he had with B in 
August 2018.  Due to the timings of the missed  payments the investigator didnt think  
Barclays mistake  had caused Mr Ks late payments to A. But thought it was likely  it had led 
to Mr Ks late payment  to B. The investigator thought Barclays  offer of £1,500 was fair. And 
he also said Barclays should  provide Mr K a letter to help explain the late payment marker 
on his credit file the lender.
Ref: DRN18929572Mr K disagreed. He said £1,500 isnt enough to reflect the amount of trouble and upset hes 
suffered. Barclays said it was happy  to write  a letter for Mr K to provide to his mortgage  
providers. But questioned why Mr K couldnt use the money hed borrowed to keep on top of 
his direct debits. Barclays also said Mr K had enough time in between  his mortgage 
payments to set up new direct debits. As no agreement has been reached the case has 
come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  findings and conclusions as the investigator. I know  
this will be a disappointment to Mr K. So, Ill explain why.
Barclays has already  accepted  it made  a mistake  when it closed Mr Ks accounts and 
blocked his funds. Theres no dispute between  the parties as to the events that have taken 
place. So, I need  not repeat them here.
Barclays has apologised for blocking and closing Mr Ks accounts. It has also offered Mr K 
£1,500 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused him. So, in this decision,  what  I 
need to decide is whether the current offer of compensation is fair and reasonable to settle  
this complaint. I also must keep in mind  the level of awards wed generally make for broadly 
similar situations. 
In response to the investigators view, Barclays has argued that Mr K had enough time to set 
up other direct debits after his accounts  were closed. And couldve prevented  the late 
payments by borrowing money from family  and friends to cover  all his direct  debits,  which 
included the payment to B. Whilst I appreciate  the point Barclays seeks  to make, I also think 
its important to note here that Mr Ks difficulties stem  from the fact that Barclays made  a 
mistake when it blocked and closed his accounts.
Mr K says the negative  information on his credit file meant he couldnt  secure  a new buy to 
let mortgage.  But Mr K hasnt provided any evidence to support what hes said. I should also 
point out that Mr Ks credit rating would have been  just one factor  in any application for new 
borrowing. And having reviewed Mr Ks credit file there were already  two late payment 
markers against Mr Ks borrowing with A, for missed payments that occurred a few months 
before Barclays closed Mr Ks account,  which would have influenced this. So, I dont  think 
Barclays errors denied  Mr K the option of obtaining another mortgage.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr K has lost out financially  because  of Barclays mistake.  But I 
do think hes been caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Mr K had to go to the 
trouble of setting  up all his direct  debits again and opening  new bank accounts. Having all 
his accounts closed suddenly and funds  blocked would undoubtedly have been very 
distressing for Mr K. And I acknowledge what Mr K has about how unwell the situation made 
him feel. I can also understand the embarrassment of having  to explain this to his family and 
friends in order to borrow money from them. So, Im satisfied that Mr K was caused 
significant trouble  and upset. 
Ive no doubt Mr K has had an upsetting and frustrating time. And Im satisfied that he was 
put to some  trouble having to rearrange  all his direct  debits. But I think  the offer of £1,500  
Ref: DRN18929573compensation is fair, and in my view arguably  generous. And I can see that as soon as 
Barclays were  aware it had made a mistake it offered to put things right.  
Were not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish  a business. Our awards arent 
punitive. So, Id expect a business  to pay compensation where  it has caused trouble and 
upset. I think the £1,500  compensation  Barclays has offered is fair and reasonable. So that it 
can be enforced, should that be necessary. I shall however, make a formal  award  requiring 
Barclays to pay it. 
Im also pleased to see that Barclays has offered to provide Mr K a letter which  he can take 
to his mortgage provider, B, to explain the circumstances around the closure of his accounts. 
It will then be a matter for B to review this information and take what action it thinks  
necessary regarding the information recorded on Mr Ks credit file. So, I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything  more.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Ks complaint, Barclays Bank UK PLC should 
pay Mr K £1,500 compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered when Barclays 
incorrectly blocked and closed his accounts. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1892957