K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains that Trusted Cash Limited,  trading as Trusted Quid,  (TQ),  gave  him three
loans that were unaffordable.  The complaint has been brought  to this service on Mr Vs
behalf by a firm of solicitors. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by
Mr V.
background
Mr V took three loans  from TQ between July 2015 and February 2016. The loans were
repayable by six monthly instalments and all have  been repaid. A summary of the loans is as
follows:-
Loan number  and 
amountDate of Loan Highest loan repayment Date repaid
1.£250 10/07/2015 £92.04 27/07/2015
2.£950 10/08/2015 £343.11 29/01/2016
3.£1,000 1/02/2016 £385.07 1/06/2016
Mr V said that TQ hadnt carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before agreeing to
the loans. He said that if sufficient checks had been carried out, TQ would have realised  that
Mr V was reliant on payday  loans and couldnt  afford  to repay  TQs loans in a sustainable
manner.
TQ said that it had completed an up-to-date  income and expenditure analysis before the
loans and it had carried out a credit  check.  It said that the check showed no county court
judgements, insolvencies, debt management  plans or defaults within the previous six
months. It also used statistical data as a guide  on expenditure.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  For Loan 1, she said
that TQ had asked Mr V to provide some income  and expenditure information,  including
asking about other  payday lending. But she noted that TQ had recorded  Mr Vs income and
his partners income, rather than Mr Vs income alone, as well as household expenditure.
But, based on what Mr V had told TQ, she said that the loan repayments  wouldve appeared
to be affordable in any case. With regard to Loan  2, the adjudicator  said that based on what
TQ knew  at the time,  the repayments wouldve seemed affordable  for Mr V. And whilst the
adjudicator said that it wouldve been better  if TQ had reviewed  only Mr Vs income  and
costs, rather than the total household  amounts, she didnt think  this wouldve changed TQs
lending decision.  The adjudicator also said that TQs checks  went  far enough  for Loan 3.
Mr V disagreed and responded  to say that if TQ had carried out proportionate checks, it
would have seen  that he had eight  other  payday  loans  at the time, numerous defaults and a
county court judgement. He also noted that TQ had recorded the total household  income
and expenditure  and so it couldnt  say that Mr V was able to make repayments  out of his
own income and savings. Mr V also said that TQ should have been concerned  with his
reliance on short term loans and that it didnt take account of all his circumstances. There
was information  that should  have been of concern to the lender.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN19983322After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr V 
and to TQ on 15 March 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that TQ was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make  checks  to make  sure 
Mr V could afford to repay the loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr V was borrowing, the length of the agreement  
and his lending  history. But there was no set list of checks  TQ had to do.
I noted that TQ had said that before lending to Mr V, it had carried  out a credit check and 
asked him about  his monthly income and expenditure. TQs records  showed  that Mr V had
declared separate incomes for himself and his partner, but joint household expenditure. Id
asked the adjudicator to ask Mr V if there was any agreement between himself and his
partner as to who was responsible for what expenditure. Mr V responded to say that there 
was no agreement between himself and his partner  as to who was responsible  for what bills.
Loan 1
Id noted that Loan 1 was to be repayable  by six repayments with a highest repayment  of
£92.04. Mr V had told TQ that he earned £2,412 and that the household expenditure was
£1,866. Mr V had also provided details of his partners  income  to TQ.
TQ had said that it had carried  out a credit check before  Loan  1 but it hadnt been able to 
provide us with the results of its credit check.  But having seen Mr Vs credit report, I was not 
aware of any adverse  information such as county  court judgements or defaults within the six 
months prior to the loan that should have  caused additional concerns to the lender.
But Id noted that Mr Vs credit report showed that he had four outstanding  loans before hed
borrowed Loan 1. But I was also aware that when a lender carried  out a credit search, the
information it saw didnt usually provide the same  level of detail that a consumers credit
search would  and it wasnt necessarily up to date. So, this might have explained any 
differences between  the information provided by TQs credit  checks and the information 
seen by Mr V in his own credit report.  I was also aware that not all payday and short  term 
lenders report to the same credit reference  agencies. So, Mr V might  have taken  other 
payday or short term loans within that period, which  might not have been identified by TQs 
credit checks.
The expenditure information requested by TQ included housing, council tax, utilities,
housekeeping, insurance, phone, travel, credit cards, payday loans, other credit 
commitments and other commitments. Mr V said that hed spent £25 on credit card
repayments but nothing on payday loans and other credit commitments. Loan 1 was due to 
be repaid over six months.  So that meant the monthly payments Mr V needed to make were  
much smaller than if hed taken a normal payday  loan, although he was committing to 
making those repayments over a longer period. I could  see that the repayments were 
relatively modest compared  to Mr Vs own declared  monthly income of £2,412. Id also noted 
that Mr V had declared his regular expenditure to be £1,866.  So even if Mr Vs partners 
income wasnt taken into account, Mr V would still have had a disposable income  of £546. 
So the monthly loan repayments of up to £92.04 would have seemed sustainable when 
compared to his declared disposable income.
I didnt think at that stage  of its relationship  with Mr V that TQ had any reason  to doubt the
information hed provided to it. I thought  it was reasonable for TQ to rely on the information
Mr V had provided at that stage about his financial situation. And that information  suggested
Ref: DRN19983323that he was able to afford to repay the loan. There  was nothing  to suggest that Mr V wasnt
using the loan in the way it was intended  as a short term solution to a temporary cash  flow
problem. So I thought TQ had carried  out proportionate checks before lending Loan 1 to 
Mr V. And I didnt think  it was unreasonable  for TQ to make the loan without carrying out 
further checks.
Loan 2
Mr V borrowed Loan 2 a month after taking out Loan 1 and ten days  after repaying Loan  1.
The loan amount of £950 was substantially higher than his previous loan amount. And the
highest monthly repayment over the six months repayment period was £343.11. So the
monthly repayments were  significantly higher than the Loan 1 repayments. Mr V had told TQ
that the reason for the loan was that he had overspent  on holiday. But I thought  the increase 
in the repayment amounts over six months  and the fact that Mr V had taken out the loan 
shortly after repaying Loan  1 might have caused TQ some concerns.
Id also thought about whether TQs  checks were proportionate before Loan 2. TQ told us
that before lending  to Mr V, it had asked  him about  his income and outgoings.  Mr V had
again declared a monthly income  of £2,412  and his partners income of £1,200.  But his
declared regular  expenditure had significantly increased within a month by £907  to £2,773.
Housekeeping expenditure  had increased  by £450 and other expenditure by £490.
I thought the large increase in Mr Vs declared  expenditure  within  such a short period  of time
might have prompted TQ to ask more questions about the reasons for the increase and the
responsibility for expenditure as it was clear that Mr V wouldnt have sufficient disposable
income to repay Loan 2 if he was responsible for repaying all the regular expenditure.
But Id also noted  that TQ had carried out a credit check  and it had provided  this service with
the results of that check. In particular I noted  that the check  showed  that Mr V had a loan
balance of £3,151 and a credit card balance  of £576. He had opened  nine new credit
accounts in the previous six months. It was possible that some  of the loan balance might 
have included other short term lending. But this wasnt  clear  to me from the credit check 
results.
Whilst Mr V had declared credit card repayments of £25 to TQ in his expenditure, Id noted  
that he hadnt declared any amount  for either payday loans or other  credit  commitments. I 
thought the results of its credit check might  have suggested to TQ that Mr V was spending 
more on credit commitments than hed declared  and if so, he might  have had a substantially 
smaller disposable income  than hed declared.  And in view of the results of the credit  check  
together with the increased loan repayments which needed to be sustained  over six months 
and the substantially increased  household expenditure, overall I thought TQ ought to have 
gathered a more  comprehensive view of Mr Vs circumstances  and sought  some  
independent verification of these. I couldnt  see that it had done  this.
Loan 3
Mr V borrowed Loan 3 just two days after repaying  Loan 2. It was the second time hed
asked for credit shortly  after repaying  the previous  loan. The loan amount had increased
again to £1,000 and the highest monthly repayment over the six months repayment period
had increased  to £385.07. Mr V had told TQ that the reason for the loan was for building
work. But I thought  all this might  have caused  TQ some concerns  and that Mr Vs behaviour
was an indicator of potential  financial  difficulties.
Ref: DRN19983324Id again thought about whether TQs checks were proportionate before Loan  3. Mr V had
declared an increased monthly  income  of £2,501 and his partners income  had increased to
£1,400. But the household expenditure had significantly decreased by over £1,500 to
£1,268.33. The rent amount had halved  and housekeeping expenditure had fallen by £450.
There was no amount for credit commitments. I thought the large decrease in rent and other
expenditure might have  again prompted  TQ to ask more  questions about the reasons for the
decrease, even  though Mr V appeared to have sufficient disposable income  of his own to
repay the loan.
But Id also seen the results of TQs credit check.  In particular I noted that the check showed
that Mr Vs loan balance  had increased to £4,300 and there was a credit  card balance of
£406. Mr V had opened seven new credit accounts  in the previous six months. It was 
possible that some of the loan balance might have  included payday loans. But this wasnt 
clear to me from the credit  check results.
Id noted that Mr V hadnt declared  any amount for credit commitments.  So Id thought the 
results of its credit check might have  suggested  to TQ that Mr V was spending  more  on other 
credit commitments  than hed declared  and so would have a smaller disposable income than 
hed declared.  And in view of the results of the credit  check together  with the increased loan
repayments which needed to be sustained over six months and the uncertainty  over the
accuracy of Mr Vs expenditure, overall  I thought TQ again ought to have independently
reviewed the true state of Mr Vs finances  before giving him this loan. I couldnt see that it did
this.
Although I didnt think the checks TQ did before Loans 2 and 3 were sufficient, that in itself
didnt mean  that Mr Vs complaint  about  these should succeed. I also needed to see whether
what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown TQ that Mr V couldnt
sustainably afford the loans. I thought  TQ should  have been  independently  checking  what 
Mr V was earning and spending each month.  So Id tried to do this by looking at Mr Vs bank
statements at the time of these loans. The bank statements might not have shown TQ
everything it wouldve  seen by carrying out proportionate checks. But I thought they were the
best indication  of Mr Vs ability to afford  the loans at the time they were approved.  So I didnt
think it was unreasonable to rely on these.
Loan 2
Id checked Mr Vs bank  statement for the month before Loan 2 to see what  better checks
would have suggested to TQ. Had it done  so TQ would have seen that Mr Vs income of
£2,260 was a little less than declared. His partner transferred £1,335 into the account. I 
could see that the statement contained  expenditure that would most  likely  be their joint
responsibility. But more  importantly, if TQ had done what I considered to be proportionate
checks, it would also have seen that Mr V was spending more than his income (over £3,100)
on gambling and taking out other short term lending (£1,000) to be repaid around the same
time as Loan  2. I thought  it was likely  that TQ would  have  found out about this had it 
enquired further  into Mr Vs circumstances when hed applied  for Loan 2. The amount of this 
spending rendered  any amount of further credit  unaffordable  and as a responsible lender, I 
didnt think TQ would  have agreed to lend Loan  2 to Mr V if it had done proportionate  
checks.
Loan 3
Ref: DRN19983325Id also checked  Mr Vs bank statement for the month before Loan 3 to see what  better
checks would have  suggested to TQ. I thought if TQ had carried out what I considered to be
proportionate checks, it would have  seen that Mr V was spending substantially  more (over
£6,200) than his income of around £2,324 on gambling. Mr V was also taking other short  
term loans (around  £1,645)  which also wouldve been used for this purpose.  I thought  that if 
TQ had seen  evidence of Mr Vs gambling  and other short term loans,  I didnt think it would 
have lent to Mr V in these  circumstances.  So, I thought it TQ had undertaken what I 
considered to be proportionate  checks,  these would  have suggested that Loan 3 wasnt 
sustainable.
In summary  I didnt think TQ had done enough  checks before Loans  2 and 3. I thought 
proportionate checks would have shown TQ the state of Mr Vs finances and that he couldnt 
afford to sustainably repay Loans  2 and 3. So, I thought that TQ needed to pay Mr V some  
compensation relating to Loans  2 and 3. 
To settle  the complaint, I thought TQ should  refund all the interest and charges applied to 
Mr Vs accounts for Loans 2 and 3, and pay 8% simple interest on those refunds from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement. Any adverse  information  recorded on Mr Vs credit  
file with regard  to those loans should also be removed.
Subject to any further representations by Mr V or TQ my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  Trusted  Cash  Limited, trading 
as Trusted Quid to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr V paid on Loans 2 and 3;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;  and
3. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  2 and 3 from Mr Vs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TQ to take off tax from this interest.  TQ must give Mr V a
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Both Mr V and TQ responded to my provisional  decision to say that they accepted  my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both Mr V and TQ have accepted my provisional decision and given me nothing  
further to consider, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require TQ to pay Mr V 
some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Trusted Cash Limited,  trading as Trusted Quid  to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr V paid on Loans 2 and 3;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
Ref: DRN19983326    of settlement;  and
3. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  2 and 3 from Mr Vs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TQ to take off tax from this interest.  TQ must give Mr V a
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1998332