K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains that Motability Operations Limited  unfairly ended her contract  hire 
agreement and she says she shouldnt have to return the car. 
Mrs S has been represented  by her son in this complaint.  For ease of reference when I refer 
to Mrs S this includes her representative.
background 
The circumstances surrounding  this complaint and my initial findings were  set out in my 
provisional decision of 2 July 2019.  A copy of that provisional decision is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. 
Motability accepted  the findings  of my provisional decision. 
Mrs S didnt accept my provisional  decision. In response  she:
said DWP and Motability cant be treated as separate legal entities because theyre 
reliant on each other
said DWP had made a mistake  and that her circumstances meant she was never 
entitled to PIP payments but she should  have received a different benefit payment 
provided evidence  confirming she had an ongoing complaint with DWP
said the police should never have been  involved because it was a civil matter  not a 
criminal one
Mrs S also said she would be sending  further documentation to support her complaint but 
despite a number of requests I havent received  anything else. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes all of the arguments  
Mrs S made following my provisional decision, having done so, I havent seen anything 
which changes my mind about  what a fair outcome to Mrs Ss complaint is. 
Motability were informed by DWP  that Mrs S was no longer eligible for the benefits which  
entitled her to a Motability car. The terms and conditions of the agreement  meant  that when 
it was advised  of this, Motability could end the agreement and ask Mrs S to return the car. 
So I dont  think it treated Mrs S unfairly  by doing so. 
DWP and Motability are separate legal entities so I cant hold Motability  responsible for the 
actions of DWP. It was down to DWP to determine whether or not Mrs S was entitled  to the 
required benefits to make her eligible for the Motability scheme. 
I understand Mrs S doesnt think DWPs decision was fair. But DWP isnt a regulated 
financial business and this service cant consider complaints about it or its decisions on 
benefit entitlement. This includes whether it made a mistake in telling Motability  whether she 
was entitled to PIP. Mrs S is following up a separate complaint with DWP and thats  the 
appropriate avenue  to follow up her concerns about  DWPs actions or any mistakes she 
feels DWP  have made. 
Ref: DRN14141972I agree  the recovery of the car was a civil matter  between Motability and Mrs S. And I 
understand Mrs S has also raised  a separate complaint  to the police  about  their involvement. 
I cant consider a complaint about  the polices actions.  But  I think  it was reasonable for 
Motability to attempt to recover the car and it attempts  to do so using a recovery  agent had 
been unsuccessful. So I dont think it was unfair  of Motability to explore other avenues  for 
securing the return  of the car given that Mrs S wasnt willing  to return  it.  And it was then 
down to the police to determine whether or not they could or should  get involved.  
I understand Mrs S wasnt arrested  but the car was secured until it could be picked up by a 
recovery agent. While I appreciate this was an upsetting  experience for Mrs S. I think  the 
offer Motability has made is sufficient to put this right and Im not asking  it to do any more. 
Having thought about everything thats happened again I think Motabilitys offer to waive 
£510 of charges it applied  to Mrs Ss account  following reporting the car as stolen is fair. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I think  Motability Operations Limiteds offer to waive the £510  
charges applied for reporting the car as stolen is fair and Im not asking it to do anything 
more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Christopher Bick
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14141973Provisional decision
background
Mrs S has hired  a number of cars from Motability  since 2000 through  contract  hire agreements. The 
most recent  of these agreements started in April 2016. 
Mrs S was using her Disability Living Allowance (DLA) to make  the contractual payments. In April 
2015 Motability wrote to Mrs S and explained  she might  no longer be eligible to receive  DLA because  
it was being replaced by Personal Independence Payments (PIP). To receive PIP Mrs S would  need 
to be assessed to confirm she was eligible. And payments towards the agreement  would only 
continue if she received the Enhanced  Rate  of the Mobility  Component of PIP.  
In July 2017  the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) determined Mrs S wasnt eligible  for the 
Enhanced Rate of the Mobility Component of PIP. And it would stop making payments towards  the 
agreement on 1 August  2017. 
On 18 July 2017  Motability wrote to Mrs S and explained  that, because she wouldnt be receiving one 
of the qualifying  mobility allowances, she would need to return  or buy the car. It explained what the 
purchase price would be up until 26 September 2017. It also explained that she had two options for 
returning the car:
1.Return the car to the dealer in a good condition by 26 September 2017 and receive a 
transitional support payment of £2,000 to help her organise her future  mobility arrangements; 
or
2.Keep the car for an extended period  of 18 weeks after 26 September 2017 but the transitional  
support payment would be reduced to £500.
Motability said Mrs S didnt need to respond to the letter and it would be automatically assumed that 
she chose option 2 if the car wasnt returned by 26 September 2017. But she did call and discuss her 
options with Motability in June, August and September 2017,  during these calls she expressed 
concern because she needed the car for work.  And on 28 September 2017 she explained  that she 
wanted to keep  the car until the later date because she was appealing the DWPs decision. 
On 29 December  2017  Motability wrote to Mrs S again. It explained  that her extended period for 
keeping the car was coming to an end on 30 January 2018 and she would  need to contact the dealer 
to arrange its return. It also provided an updated purchase price  if Mrs S wanted to buy the car. 
On 12 January 2018 Mrs S emailed Motability  to complain, in summary she said:
She would never have  entered into the agreement if she knew that it could  be terminated 
before the three  years  ended.
She understood DWP made the payments up front  so she should  be able to keep the car 
for the full three years.
She hadnt yet attended  an assessment appointment and hadnt been told she wouldnt  
receive PIP by DWP. 
Motability didnt uphold her complaint it said it had given Mrs S advanced  notice of the changes and it 
couldnt be held responsible for DWPs decision. It explained that unless DWP  decided  that Mrs S 
was entitled to the Enhanced Rate of the Mobility Component of PIP she would need to return  the 
vehicle. It also pointed out that its agreement was with 
Mrs S rather than DWP and the terms and conditions explain agreements will be terminated if the 
DWP stops the payments. 
On 30 January 2018 Mrs S contacted Motability  and said she wouldnt be returning the vehicle 
because she felt she was entitled to keep it for the full 3 years.  
Ref: DRN14141974Motability didnt accept  this and wrote to Mrs S on 9 February 2018.  This letter explained  that it would  
start recovery action and the vehicle would be collected  from her address on 
16 February 2018. 
Unhappy with Motabilitys  response Mrs S complained  to this service. The investigator who initially 
looked at the complaint didnt  uphold it. He concluded  that because Motability had been told by DWP  
that she was not entitled to receive  the required benefits it could end the agreement. He explained 
that Mrs S had been given sufficient notice that the agreement would  come to an end and because  
she hadnt made an alternative arrangement  it was reasonable for Motability  to collect the car.  
Motability accepted his assessment but Mrs S didnt. In response  she said:
Mrs S hadnt been  able to make any of the DWP assessments  so DWP  had never actually 
assessed her to see if she is entitled to PIP. She will now be assessed and although  payments 
had stopped entitlement to continue receiving  those payments hasnt been definitively 
established. 
Mrs Ss agreement is legally ambiguous  and places her as a vulnerable  scheme user at risk of 
worsening health when DWPs actions caused the arrears to occur. 
As a company instituted on the diversion of government benefits Motability cant be considered 
to be independent from DWP and should be answerable for aspects  of payment  handling or 
procedure. 
Its not fair that the agreement places  obligations on Mrs S when DWP  are responsible for 
making payments towards the agreement. 
So the case  has been referred  to me for a final decision.
While the complaint was waiting to be reviewed by an ombudsman Motability reported the car as 
stolen. Consequently  the police stopped Mrs S when she was parked in a supermarket car park and 
the car was removed  from her possession  and towed away.  Mrs S has said it wasnt fair of Motability 
to take this action before  the case was decided  by an ombudsman and disputes the charges that 
Motability have told her are outstanding (£1,123.14).  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so I felt it was important to include  what  had happened 
after the complaint was referred  to ombudsman as part of this decision, which Motability agreed to. 
Ive explained my thoughts in more details  below but in summary I thought Motability was entitled to 
ask for the car back from Mrs S and to take appropriate  action to recover it. But it wasnt reasonable 
to report  the car as stolen without informing her that it would do so.
I let Motability know my thoughts on this and it has offered to waive  the charges  it applied for reporting  
the car as stolen but it maintains the other charges applied for recovering the car should be applied. 
was Motability entitled to end the agreement?
I have some sympathy for the situation Mrs S found herself in. She had come to rely on the car and I 
appreciate she must have  been upset to hear that the agreement was coming to an end. But I need to 
consider whether Motability could end the agreement in the circumstances and I think it could. 
The terms  of Mrs Ss agreement with Motability explain:
'we may terminate this Agreement  if at any time:
Ref: DRN1414197514.1.2 you or the Disabled  Person (as the case may be) cease to be entitled to receive or deal with an 
Allowance or if the Department for Work and Pensions do not pay such  Allowance to us except  
where it is our fault.'
Motability had been advised  by DWP that Mrs S would no longer receive the necessary  benefit  
payments and it would stop paying towards the agreement. So I think it was fair for it to end the 
agreement and ask Mrs S to either return or buy the car. 
While there is clearly a relationship between Motability and DWP, they are separate  organisations and 
it wouldnt be reasonable to hold one accountable for the actions  of the other. In this instance I can 
look at Mrs Ss complaint about Motability  and I cant consider  DWPs actions. 
Mrs S has said that she should be entitled to the benefit payments but thats not Motabilitys  decision 
to make. I appreciate Mrs S says shes not been able to attend  an assessment. But its not 
Motabilitys responsibility to arrange the assessments or analyse the results. It has to rely on the 
information it had receives from DWP.  Which in this instance confirmed Mrs S wasnt going  to receive 
the required benefits to be eligible for the scheme
When it became  aware that Mrs S wasnt  going  to receive  the necessary benefit  payments Motability 
gave her a number of options to try and reduce the impact of the agreement  ending.  I can understand 
Mrs Ss preference was to keep the agreement in place  as it had been but that wasnt available to her 
because she wasnt receiving the necessary  benefits from DWP.  I  dont think  it would be reasonable 
for me to ask Motability to do that when it wasnt  receiving the payments to cover the cost of the 
agreement. 
Mrs S has said DWP  had already paid the total amount due under the agreement  for her to be able to 
keep the car for the full three years. I havent seen anything to confirm that but even but even if I had, 
it wouldnt lead me to conclude that shed be able to keep the car; it would be down to DWP and 
Motability to arrange an appropriate refund.  
I think  Motability had given Mrs S advanced notice of the impending changes to the benefits  system 
and what this might mean for her agreement. And it did so before Mrs S took out this agreement. So I 
dont think Mrs S was misled into taking the agreement out, even if Mrs S didnt appreciate that her 
benefit payments might  change. And had she realised,  I think its unlikely  she would have done 
anything differently.  Shes explained she relies on the car and is asking DWP  to reconsider her 
circumstances so I think in all likelihood she would have gone ahead  with the agreement  anyway. 
I think  Mrs Ss hire agreement  clearly sets out the terms on which  it would  end and I dont think this is 
ambiguous. So I dont think it treated Mrs S unfairly  by ending the agreement  when  she stopped 
receiving the necessary benefit payments from DWP. 
action taken to recover the car 
When the agreement came to an end Mrs S was required to return the car. This is explained  in the 
terms and conditions  of the agreement:
14.5 If we terminate this Agreement then:
14.5.1 you will cease to be in possession of the Vehicle  or Replacement Vehicle  with our permission;
14.5.2 we will be entitled  to take possession  of the Vehicle or Replacement Vehicle;
14.5.3 you must immediately return the Vehicle or Replacement Vehicle to a place directed  by us
After the agreement  had come to an end Mrs S hadnt  agreed to return the car and had resisted 
Motabilitys attempts to collect it. I can see that Motability  sent a recovery agent  who visited Mrs Ss 
address on a number of occasions to locate the car and had been unsuccessful. And Im satisfied Mrs 
S was aware  of these attempts as she emailed  the collection agent to explain she didnt think  it should 
collect the vehicle while the matter was still ongoing through this service. 
Ref: DRN14141976I can understand why Mrs S wanted to keep the car until our service  had made  a final decision  on the 
complaint and/or DWP had reassessed  her situation. But I think  Motability  was entitled to end the 
agreement and ask Mrs S to return the car. There was no obligation on Motability to allow her to keep 
the car and I think Motability was within  its rights to try and recover it. 
But I do think  Motability should have explained to Mrs S that it would report the car as stolen if she 
didnt allow it to be collected. And to do so while the complaint was waiting to be decided by an 
ombudsman and without  telling  her wasnt reasonable. 
Motability has offered  to waive £510 of charges which  were incurred  as a result of reporting  the car 
stolen and I think  this is fair.
I think  Mrs S would have been caused embarrassment and inconvenience by the manner in which the 
car was recovered.  But Ive also considered  that Mrs S had kept and used the car much longer  than 
she was entitled to. She hasnt been charged for keeping  possession  of it and I think the benefit  of 
this outweighs any compensation  I would  award in these  circumstances so I dont intend on awarding 
any compensation for this. 
outstanding balance of the account
Ive asked Motability for a breakdown of the balance it says Mrs S is owed. Its explained that after 
deducting the above there is £613.14  left to pay.  These charges  are made up of:
Recovery agents cost £250.00
Distance travelled  with asset £145.00
Additional transportation  costs  £213.14
Mrs S has said its not fair the agreement places  obligations on her when DWP are responsible for 
making the payments.  But she is party to the agreement and I think its reasonable for Motability  to 
place an onus  on the consumer to (amongst  other things) take reasonable care of the car and return  it 
when the agreement ends.  The terms and conditions make  clear  whats required  of consumers and 
that charges can be applied if the car is not returned when it should  be. Mrs S accepted these terms 
as part of the agreement  for her to take the car. 
 
The terms  of Mrs Ss agreement explain: 
you will be responsible for any reasonable costs  and expenses incurred  by us in recovery and, 
pending any sale of the Vehicle, storage  of the Vehicle,  including, but not limited to, solicitors fees, 
agents fees and towing and storage charges.
I think  the charges  set out above have been applied  fairly and in line with the agreement  terms and 
conditions. Theyve been applied  as a result of Mrs S not returning the car. 
So I think its reasonable for Motability to apply them  to Mrs Ss account. And to explain this to her 
and ask her to pay as it has done. But Motability  has confirmed that while this remains payable it 
wont pursue  Mrs S for this debt. But if she is ever deemed  eligible for the Motability  scheme again the 
outstanding balance would need to be cleared in full before  it will enter into a new agreement  with her. 
I think  this is fair so Im not asking Motability to do anything  else.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint. I think Motabilitys  offer to waive the charges  applied for reporting the car as 
stolen is fair and Im not asking it to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN1414197