K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that AXA Insurance UK Plc has held him at fault for an accident which  has 
affected his No Claims Discount (NCD).  
background
Mr M says he stopped behind a third partys car waiting to enter a roundabout. He says the 
third party was not in a steady position, he forgot to put on hand brake his car moved slightly 
backward into the front of Mr Ms car. He says there was very little contact and the third 
partys car was already damaged before the incident. Mr M remained where he was and got 
out of the car but said the third party pulled away about 20 meters  before stopping.  
The third party made a claim on his insurance  who looked to AXA to cover the claim, saying 
that Mr M had in fact driven into the rear of the third partys car. Mr M complained to AXA 
after it settled the third partys claim, holding him at fault for the incident and reduced his 
NCD. 
AXA looked  into Mr Ms complaint and sent its final response. It said that the evidence  
doesnt support  his version of events  and, as it couldnt defend the claim, it had settled it. 
AXA said it had recorded the claim as fault and Mr Ms NCD had been affected.  
Mr M was unhappy with AXAs response and referred his complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators investigated it. He looked at the evidence  Mr M and AXA had provided  and 
concluded that the evidence didnt support how Mr M said the incident had happened.  He 
said AXA hadnt  acted  unreasonably in settling the claim  as it had. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He said that AXA hadnt investigated the circumstances properly. He 
asked why the third party  drove away 20 meters from the scene. Our adjudicator  explained 
that we cant say why the third party moved  forward before stopping  to speak with Mr M, but 
that he was satisfied AXA had looked into the claim reasonably. As there was no agreement,  
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for this service to decide whos  liable  to a motor incident  that is something only a 
court can decide.  But what  we can do is look at the investigation carried out by the insurer 
and decide if we think its conducted a reasonable investigation and complied with the terms 
of the policy  in order to reach the decision it has.
In this case, AXA received notification of the incident via a claim from the third partys insurer 
and asked Mr M what had happened. He explained  the circumstances as I have set out 
above. But the third party  had told his insurer that Mr M had driven  into the back  of his car. 
As there were two different versions  of events AXA had to reach its own conclusion about 
whether it would be successful in trying  to defend the claim. In line with most motor  
insurance policies,  the terms of Mr Ms policy allow AXA to take  over, defend  or settle  the 
claim, so it was able to reach a decision in its own right. 
Ref: DRN16363002AXA looked  at the circumstances described by Mr M  that the third party had rolled back 
into his car as he hadnt applied his handbrake. It considered the location  of the incident and 
noted that the road slopes  downwards  towards  the roundabout. So it concluded that it was 
unlikely that the third party could  simply have rolled  back in the way Mr M suggested. AXA 
concluded that  in the absence of any evidence  to the contrary  - the third partys  version  of 
events was more  likely  than Mr Ms version. 
I know this will be a disappointment  to Mr M, but based on the information weve received  
from him and from AXA, I think AXA has carried out a reasonable level of investigation  and 
reached a reasonable decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to askMr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1636300