K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained that Legal & General Insurance  Limited  (L&G) unreasonably made 
him undergo physical  tests while assessing his continued entitlement  to benefit under his 
employers group income protection insurance  policy. Mr B says the tests exacerbated his 
heart condition and made him ill.  
background 
In 2015, Mr B stopped working due to atrial fibrillation, a heart  rhythm  disorder. He made a 
claim under his employers group income protection insurance policy  which was held with 
L&G. L&G accepted the claim and began  paying benefit in 2016, once the waiting period 
under the policy  had been served.
In 2017, L&G asked Mr B to undergo  a functional capacity evaluation (FCE) to help assess 
his capability of returning to work. The FCE was originally arranged  for September 2017  but 
on the day it was due to take place the assessor  decided it shouldnt go ahead because  
Mr B was reporting significant  anxiety, agitation and a racing heartbeat. The test was 
rearranged and eventually took place in early 2018.
Mr B says that during the evaluation, he began to feel unwell. The next day he was still 
feeling unwell.  His GP advised him to attend  the A&E department  of his local hospital where 
he underwent various tests on his heart.  He was eventually discharged several  hours later 
with the hospital having confirmed that he hadnt suffered a heart attack. He said he 
continued to experience symptoms over the following days.
Mr B complained to L&G. He blamed  the FCE for making him ill and said he shouldnt have 
been made to undergo it. He believed  it had been dangerous for someone in his condition, 
particularly as the assessor  was not medically  qualified.
L&G didnt accept  that it had been wrong to ask Mr B to attend the FCE. It said it had taken 
account of his state of health  and had taken necessary precautions to ensure he wasnt put 
in danger. It said Mr B had been  made aware  that he could stop at any time during the 
testing if he felt unwell.  However, it accepted that it hadnt initially explained  properly why the 
assessment was needed, nor did it quickly enough  address  the concerns hed raised. It 
offered him £500 compensation for any trouble  or upset caused  by this poor communication.
Mr B was unhappy at L&Gs response. He referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her opinion,  L&G 
had acted reasonably in asking Mr B to undergo the FCE. She didnt think Mr B had shown 
the assessment  had been detrimental to his health. She considered that there had been 
some failings in L&Gs  customer  service but she was satisfied that its offer of £500 was 
adequate compensation  for this.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He said he wasnt well enough to undergo the 
FCE but had been  bullied into it by L&G who had otherwise threatened to terminate his 
claim. He said he reported chest  pains and excruciating neck  pains during the assessment 
and the assessor  should have stopped things there and then but failed to do so. He said 
both his heart consultant and GP had said they couldnt believe he was made to undergo the 
tests without adequate medical supervision.
Ref: DRN16072642In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Mr B was eligible to receive  benefit  for as long as he remained incapacitated from 
performing his occupation. L&G accepted the claim in 2016.  However,  it was entitled to 
review the claim from time to time to ensure that Mr B remained eligible for benefit.
Mr B had been diagnosed  with atrial fibrillation,  hypertension and asthma.  In 2017, while  
reviewing the claim, L&G received a report from Mr Bs treating chest consultant. It 
considered that the consultants report was slightly at odds with Mr Bs own reporting of the 
severity of his conditions and his functional limitations. It therefore considered that Mr B 
should undergo an FCE to enable it to get a better  understanding of his functional abilities in 
case it was possible to advise on adjustments which would allow  his return  to work.  I think 
this was reasonable.
Mr B was very anxious  about the assessment and raised various concerns with L&G, 
including about  the medical qualifications of the assessor. I can see that L&G did its best to 
reassure Mr B. However, when Mr B turned up for the assessment he still seemed unsure as 
to its purpose.  As a result,  he was agitated and reluctant  to engage. In the end, the assessor 
considered that Mr B shouldnt undergo the assessment due to his symptoms of anxiety.
L&G gave Mr Bs employer a more detailed explanation  of why the FCE was necessary and 
what it would  entail.  It asked the employer to confirm Mr Bs agreement  to undergo a 
rearranged FCE. L&G said that if Mr B didnt agree to undertake  the FCE, it may result in the 
claim being terminated but I dont think this was bullying.  The policy allows the claim to be 
terminated if Mr B causes a delay  in the production of evidence  which  L&G needs to properly 
consider his entitlement to benefit  and Im satisfied that the FCE was such evidence.
The employers representative  responded to say that shed spoken to Mr B and explained to 
him that the assessor  wouldnt  make  him do more than he was capable of and that if he felt 
unable to perform a particular task then he could simply tell the assessor this. On this basis, 
Mr B had said he was happy  to go ahead and the FCE was rearranged.  Im satisfied that this 
was reasonable.
L&G has explained that the assessor was trained to monitor the individual  being assessed to 
ensure that safe capacity was being measured.  It says the assessor made Mr B aware  he 
could stop at any point if he felt he had reached his maximum  tolerance. She monitored  Mr B 
throughout and his heart rate did not exceed safe limits.  She stopped one particular test 
because she observed hed reached  his maximum capacity  and, because  of this, she chose 
not to subject Mr B to certain other planned  tests.
I can see from the FCE report that the assessor  chose not to test Mr Bs metabolic 
endurance having taken  into account his cardiac history.  I can see that the assessor 
recorded at various  times that the tests caused  Mr B to become mildly to moderately 
breathless. She also reported that at one point he requested a break due to a feeling of 
tightness in his chest and after one test he reported an onset of neck pain which he rated at 
Ref: DRN16072643a level of 3/10.  However,  I see no reasonable grounds for concluding that the assessor put 
Mr B at risk. 
It is unfortunate that Mr B later felt unwell and had to attend hospital.  However,  I have seen 
no evidence from medical professionals  to support that this was due to unreasonable  
exertions placed  on him in the FCE. In light of this, I cant reasonably conclude that L&G 
caused detriment  to Mr Bs health  by requesting that he undergo  the assessment.
L&G has acknowledged  that it didnt adequately explain the review process to Mr B so that 
he could understand from the outset why the FCE was necessary  and what  it entailed. I 
consider that this failure of communication  caused Mr B to be unduly anxious about the 
assessment. However, L&G has offered £500 compensation for any trouble and upset 
caused to Mr B by this communication  failure  and Im satisfied that this is appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1607264