K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc sent letters containing his personal information  to the 
wrong address.
background 
Mr K has a mortgage with Santander. He says that for a period of time Santander held the 
wrong address  details  for him on their systems. And this meant they sent letters about his 
mortgage to the wrong address. 
He says these  letters  contained personal information about  him, including  salary,  work 
history, age and personal profile   as well as details about his mortgage.
Mr K complained to Santander, who admitted theyd sent some information to the wrong 
address. They offered  Mr K £150 as a gesture of good will and to allow him to pay for two 
years subscription with CIFAS for fraud prevention purposes (at a cost of £20).
Mr K wasnt  happy with this outcome and complained to us. He also pointed out that he 
didnt get Santanders final response letter to his complaint because theyd used another 
wrong address.
Our investigator looked into it. When Santander  became aware  Mr K hadnt received their 
final response letter they offered to pay Mr K an additional £100 in compensation, taking the 
total offer to £250.
Our investigator thought this outcome was fair and reasonable, but Mr K didnt agree and 
asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He thinks he should  receive  more  
compensation for the stress hes suffered and for the risk that his personal  details may be 
misused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks actual  address   which  Ill refer to as address A - is in the following format:
Flat [Number]
[Building name]
[Number] [Street name]
[Town]
[Postcode]
The address  to which Santander  sent Mr Ks mortgage completion letter and statement  
which Ill call address  B - uses  the flat number, then the street  name. So any letters will 
presumably go to another house on Mr Ks street.
Theres no dispute that Santander sent the mortgage completion letter  and statement to 
address B. 
Ref: DRN15330422Theyve provided documentary evidence that this is the address used by the surveyor who 
valued the property and by the solicitor  who prepared the propertys Title certificate. So, the 
mistake wasnt  originated by them. 
Nonetheless, they have admitted they should  have picked up the issue sooner  they had 
written to the correct  address previously   and should have resolved it before they wrote to 
Mr K.
The letters sent to address B do contain personal  information about Mr K  his name,  
mortgage account number and details  relating  to how much  he pays  and when. But there is 
no evidence that Santander ever sent details relating  to Mr Ks salary, work history  or any 
other personal profile to the wrong  address.
When Mr K asked  Santander to change his address details, he provided a utility  bill to prove 
his address  in line with Santanders standard procedure. Weve seen a copy  of this utility 
bill and it contains a third version  of Mr Ks address  Ill call it address  C. This has the flat 
number, building  name, town and postcode - but no house number or street name. 
Santander sent their final response to Mr Ks complaint to address C. Mr K says it didnt 
arrive  although some  mail using address C does get to him. Given  the details missing from 
address C, its not entirely surprising that some mail arrives and some  does not.
I dont think Santander  are wholly to blame for the confusion about  Mr Ks address  - 
particularly the later issue caused by the utility  bill address.  The utility bill was provided by 
Mr K after all. 
However, they have  admitted they didnt act as quickly as they should  have when  
contradictory information about the address first came to them. And they held the wrong  
address details for a considerable time, when it might have been relatively easy  to resolve  
the issue earlier by contacting Mr K and sorting things out.
I can understand Mr Ks worry  about  his personal details being sent to the wrong address. 
But theres no suggestion that Mr K has actually suffered any consequential loss as a result  
of the mis-addressed  letter. And Santander  have  acted reasonably in referring Mr K to 
CIFAS and agreeing  to pay his subscription fees for two years.
Bearing that in mind, and taking into account  the extent of the personal information included  
in the mis-directed  documents  (which  didnt include salary, work history or other  personal  
profile details), I think the £250 offered by Santander during our investigation  of the 
complaint is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN15330423my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr K £250 for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019..
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1533042