K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the credit  card application form completed at the 
time. To get the cover  Mrs C had to tick a box. The box is ticked  and Mrs C has signed the 
form which indicates she wanted the cover  and agreed to it. As Mrs C was taking out further 
credit, if she didnt want the PPI I would have expected her to raise this before she signed 
the application. So having taken  everything  into account, I think  Halifax  made it clear that 
Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this now many  years later. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs C so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. Mrs C was 
eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions from or limits to the 
PPI cover.  
And Mrs C seems to have had a need  for the cover. I say that because whilst  Mrs Cs told us 
she was only entitled to statutory sick pay and that she had no other means  she could have 
relied on. The PPI could  have paid out for up to 12 months, in the event that Mrs C was too 
ill to work,  or up to 10 months if she lost her job. So, I think Mrs C would have found the 
policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said but these points dont change my decision.
I have looked  at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given  by 
the adjudicator,  and set out above,  I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank  of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund  everything Mrs C paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mrs C back some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mrs C now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN14076802my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1407680