K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr S bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  in branch. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a Quality Controller  (Mr S said he was a brickmaker, but 
his credit card application records  he was a Quality Controller.) He has told us he was not 
entitled to any sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying his credit  card should 
he be unable  to work. Mr S has said he had a medical condition  around 20 years  prior to the 
sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr S credit card balance  in the event of 
a successful claim. At the time, it cost 78p per £100  of the monthly outstanding balance.  The 
premium would continue  to have to be paid during  a successful claim and it did attract 
interest. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in 2005.
Mr S representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ss representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ss representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr S about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr S and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Ref: DRN14972862Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr S. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN14972863Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr S case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
BoS was required  to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr S complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mr S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr S complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr S know he had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN14972864BoS has provided a copy of Mr S credit card application from the time. Looking at this I can 
see there is a printed  X in the box titled Credit Card Repayment  Insurance.  While Im 
mindful that the X is printed and not handwritten,  from what I understand of BoS sales  
practice at the time, the printed application  reflected the answers an applicant gave to the 
questions asked by the adviser during the meeting  and this included a question  about PPI.
Mr S signed  the overall application.  And I think he would have had the opportunity to query 
anything on the form he wasnt  happy about or didnt agree to before he signed  it.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr S knew  the policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Both BoS and Mr S agree  that advice was provided  during this sale. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr S with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr S. It seems Mr S cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about Mr 
S financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps 
to establish whether Mr S would have been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  BoS considered whether Mr S had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that BoS did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr S given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded BoS advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr S, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr S ability to continue to meet  
his credit card repayments  would  have been  put under strain  if he was not working 
for an extended period of time. 
Based on Mr S testimony  of his circumstances  at the time, he didnt  have any means 
at his disposal of meeting  his credit card payments should he find himself unable to 
work through  either  disability  or unemployment.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr S.
Ref: DRN14972865-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr S. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ss employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. Regarding  pre-existing  medical conditions  - Mr S has referred  to a 
condition he had around 20 years prior to the sale. But the policy  only excluded 
things which caused problems in the 12 months before the sale.  So as Mr S has not 
said he was suffering with, sought advice or treatment from a doctor in the 12 months  
immediately before the start date, I dont consider the existing medical condition 
exclusion made the policy unsuitable for him  he doesnt appear  to have been 
caught by it. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr S circumstances 
and the fact the policy could have cleared his outstanding card balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr S sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BoS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr S was given a very broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr S would have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr S would have taken out the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was. Im also satisfied Mr S would have realised the policy 
wasnt free and its likely he would have had some  understanding of how much the policy 
cost before agreeing to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr S 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary Mr 
S might have been given, I think its more likely than not that he based  his decision on the 
things he was told, rather than on anything he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr S, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr S. Im not persuaded that BoS gave Mr S all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN14972866In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr S representative has raised a number  of 
general points  about  the requirements  on a business  when providing  information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr S. Ive considered  these 
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr S representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr S representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoS shortcomings have on Mr S? To what extent  did Mr S suffer loss 
or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr S. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr S suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr S would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded that BoS took the steps  it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr S, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr S has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, Mr 
S would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr S says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN14972867The evidence in this case suggests that Mr S had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr S circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr S ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   I 
think at the very least this would have been  discussed during the meeting. But, I accept that 
BoS didnt make clear  the on-going cost information.  So while  Mr S didnt know  some things, 
the ultimate position in the event  of a successful claim  was not dissimilar  to what  he would 
reasonably have thought  from the information he based his decision to take out the policy  on 
and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr S sought advice or 
treatment from a doctor during the 12 months prior to the start date and which 
recurred within 12 months of the start date;
 
The policy excluded claims for chronic  condition Mr S knew about and which recurred  
within 12 months of the start date;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr S be unable  to 
do his own job or any paid work which his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do. 
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr S pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr S circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  
Ref: DRN14972868Mr S didnt, based on what hes told us, have any pre-existing medical conditions as defined  
under the policy  and he was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr S might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr S 
from taking out the policy,  Mr S, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr S had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job but 
also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view he might reasonably be qualified  for, it 
might have played into his thinking  about what he would do. And I accept it may have given 
him pause for thought   although  given Mr S circumstances and his testimony that he had 
no other means to make his repayments if he wasnt  working, on balance,  I still think  he 
would have been interested in taking out the cover.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr S would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and he didnt have any means of meeting his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and, he thought,  
redundancy. And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.   
Mr S representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr S would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr S 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr S 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN14972869Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude BoS should pay Mr S compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
he would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr S thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoS 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Mr S, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet 
the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect  it to have met in [date] when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr S representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr S and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1497286