K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the advice  he was given to transfer his pension  benefits by Mazars  
Financial Planning Limited. He says the advice didnt make  it clear how hed be better off by 
transferring out of his existing pension scheme.  Also, he was given misleading information 
about the fees Mazars would charge. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in March 2019, a copy  of which is attached  
to this decision. In summary, I thought the offer Mazars had made  to Mr M was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr M didnt  accept the provisional decision,  and made a number of points:
Having read the provisional decision, he thought he might not have  been  clear 
regarding the nature of his complaint. He was dissatisfied with the quality of service  
he received from Mazars, a lack of independence and a breakdown in trust that 
meant he could not pursue the recommendation.
The provisional decision summarises  the complaint in two parts   that the advice 
didnt make it clear how he would be better off and that the fees were misleading.  But 
he raised a number of other points when he spoke  to the adjudicator  in December 
2017. He cant  see that these have  been  adequately considered.  
It appears the provisional decision is based  on misleading information  about Mazars 
fees. But he wishes to clarify that he has no issue regarding the information he 
received about  the fee for the initial  advice.  His concerns relate to the ongoing fees if 
he did decide to transfer. The manner in which  these  were presented to him was 
confusing.
He would never have engaged Mazars if hed been told of these ongoing costs at the 
initial meeting. 
He told Mazars in an email in April 2017  that he needed to see something that would 
show by how much hed be better  off by transferring. The section for recommended  
income in Mazars report says TBD. He doesnt think it reasonable to make such 
an important decision on the basis of something thats to be decided  at a later date. 
Looking at the calculations on which the report is based, the suggested income was 
not much  more than from his employers scheme. He cant see evidence how his 
income would  dramatically increase by transferring.
Also, the cash flow forecasts in the report shows that he would reduce his drawings  
after he starts taking his State pension. So it seems  that he would be financially 
worse off from this point. 
When he first contacted Mazars in February 2017 he made  it clear  he was exploring 
other investment  options. He also told them hed like his pension  to be managed  
elsewhere. 
But Mazars  report only gave one option by recommending its own investment team 
to manage his pension fund. The report refers  to Mazars past investment 
performance, which looks good as it dates back to the financial crash in 2008  and the 
long bull market since. He cant see where any other investment options  have  been  
explored or offered to him.
Because of this, he questions if the advice  was independent.
There are examples, both in the report and his communications with Mazars  that the 
advice he was given  was driven by the potential earnings they would gain.
Ref: DRN17992642He questions why Mazars recommended that two defined  contribution  pension  
schemes he took out after leaving  his employers scheme  should  also be transferred. 
Both schemes had lower  charges than the one proposed by Mazars.
There are also examples in the correspondence and conversations with Mazars 
adviser where Mr M became increasing concerned regarding his motives.  The tone 
changed from independent adviser to salesman. 
The adviser seemed  to be trying to minimise the impact of the fees in much  of his 
correspondence. 
While  he accepts Mazars spent some  time in preparing the report, he feels strongly  
that the advice  did not meet his expectations  or needs. He believes the 
compensation offered is inadequate. Mazars have offered £1,200 for the bad advice, 
but in the end this was advice that wasnt in his best interests and should never have 
been given. 
Mazars didnt respond to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr M thinks that I didnt give full consideration to all parts  of his complaint when 
issuing my provisional decision. But while I included  a brief summary  of his complaint, and 
the background to this, as confirmed  in my decision I had taken account of all his 
submissions. 
Ive noted Mr Ms comments about the charges for the ongoing  management of his pension 
fund if he transferred. He says he wasnt told about these when he initially  approached 
Mazars.
The note the adviser made of the first meeting with Mr M in February  2017  shows this was 
mainly used to gain an understanding of his current  situation and needs regarding  his 
pension. The focus was on Mr Ms wish to receive  advice on whether he should  transfer  
away from his former  employers scheme.  The note indicates Mr M was very open-minded 
about this. Although there was some  discussion about Mr Ms attitude  to risk and capacity for 
loss, a full risk profiling  exercise would be carried out if Mr M decided to engage Mazars  to 
provide formal advice.  
In the circumstances, I dont think there was any reason for Mazars  to discuss  future 
investment options  or what costs these might  incur at this point. 
After Mr M decided  to engage  Mazars  to give him advice, it went ahead  and explored  the 
possibility of transferring  his pension benefits.  Having recommended  a transfer, it was at this 
stage that the investment of the pension fund became relevant. 
Mazars recommended that Mr Ms pension benefits be transferred into a self-invested  
personal pension  (SIPP)  and Mr M take the maximum tax free cash  sum. The remainder 
would be placed  in a flexible drawdown  arrangement. Because  the residual pension  fund 
was fairly  large, it wasnt unreasonable  to suggest this should  be invested in an actively  
managed portfolio. Mazars was able to carry out this function. But I dont  agree  with Mr M 
this shows the advice wasnt independent. 
Ref: DRN17992643Further, whilst Mazars was required within its advice to take account of how the pension 
fund would be invested, Mr M wasnt compelled to accept this part of the advice. He says he 
told Mazars at the outset  that he was exploring  other  investment options.  Ive not seen 
evidence of this. But if this was the case it seems Mr M was aware there  were  various  ways  
in which  his pension  could be invested.  It was open to him to appoint a different adviser  to 
manage his pension fund after the transfer if he didnt like Mazars  proposition.  
Mr M has also referred to the income he would receive if he transferred, and says this isnt 
much more than from the pension scheme.  But Mr Ms future income needs were discussed  
in the initial  meeting, and it was agreed the adviser  would  work on a requirement of £27,000 
a year.  Its therefore  not unreasonable that this is reflected in the report.  Its clear  Mr M also 
knew how much  his existing scheme  would pay at retirement  just under £29,000  a year.  
So it seems  he indicated  he was willing to take a lower income following the transfer.
This also accounts for the fact that Mr Ms State pension was taken into account.  Once  he 
was able to starting  taking  this pension, his need  to take withdrawals from the SIPP would 
reduce while  still maintaining his desired level of income. This would reduce any potential 
drain on his pension fund. One of the advantages  of pension  drawdown is that it allows, 
within some  limits, income to go up or down according to requirements.  
Mr M says he cant see from the report Mazars provided how his income would be 
dramatically increased  through  transferring his pension. But Ive not seen evidence he was 
led to believe this could  be achieved. Nor have  I seen evidence Mr M told Mazars  this was 
his aim. As Ive noted above, until the matter  had been fully explored it couldnt be known 
what benefit, if any, would be provided from transferring. 
The advice Mazars  gave  was inevitably based  on a number of assumptions.  For instance, 
what investment returns and inflation  might  be in the future. Such factors cant  be predicted  
accurately, and so its not possible to give a definitive answer  to whether transferring from a 
DB scheme  will be beneficial. 
From the comments hes made,  it seems  Mr M wanted more  certainty  about  his future 
benefits than Mazars, or indeed any adviser,  could  give.  But this doesnt mean that the 
advice he was given  was flawed. 
As I noted  in my provisional decision, Mazars set out in its report the reasons why it was 
recommending Mr M should  transfer. I appreciate Mr M didnt, in the event, feel some  of 
these were important to him, such as the improved  death benefits.  But I think  Mazars was 
entitled to take the overall position into account when comparing the two schemes in order  to 
make its recommendation. 
Mr M says it was a breakdown in trust that caused  him not to go ahead  with the transfer. 
This seems to be contradicted by what he told Mazars at the time.  He said he didnt want to 
give up the DB benefits hed built-up over several years. But this was a choice he was 
always going to have to make, and something I think he was aware of before he sought 
financial advice. 
Mazars made the cost for providing its advice clear to Mr M, including  the fact that the fee 
was payable whether or not the advice was accepted.  Mr M agreed to these terms. If hed 
been unhappy with the proposition, he could  have tried to negotiate a different arrangement 
or go to another adviser. He did neither of these things. 
Ref: DRN17992644At the point Mr M engaged Mazars to act on his behalf, it couldnt be known if a transfer  
would be feasible.  This would  depend  on a number of factors,  including the results  of the 
transfer value  analysis. It could be that it wouldnt be suitable to recommend a transfer  for 
instance, if the analysis showed that the critical yield was too high. But under the agreement  
Mr M had entered  into, Mazars would still be entitled  to charge its normal fee. 
Mr M has expressed concern about  the potential fees if hed transferred and Mazars  had 
managed his pension fund. But he didnt  go ahead with the transfer, and hasnt incurred 
these fees.  
In the circumstances, while Ive considered the further points Mr M has made, my opinion  
remains as I set out in my provisional  decision.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. Mazars Financial Planning Limited should pay Mr M £1,200. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17992645COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains about  the advice he was given to transfer his pension benefits by Mazars Financial 
Planning Limited.  He says the advice  didnt make it clear  how hed be better  off by transferring out of 
his existing pension scheme. Also, he was given misleading information about the fees Mazars would  
charge. 
background
Mr M approached Mazars for advice about his pension  provision in February 2017. He had benefits 
through a former employers defined benefits (DB) pension scheme. Hed received a capital 
equivalent transfer  value  (CETV)  of £1,079,399.  Mr M wanted  advice on whether  to accept the CETV.   
In April 2017,  Mazars sent Mr M its report about transferring his pension. Mr M questioned some  
details of the charges as set out in the report, to which the adviser responded. Shortly after, Mr M 
emailed to confirm  he wouldnt be going ahead with the transfer. He felt that 32.5 years of final salary 
entitlement was too much  to give up for the potential of a defined contribution scheme.  
In May 2017,  Mazars sent Mr M a fee note, which said the total payable including  VAT was £5,700. 
Mr M agreed to pay the fee, but said this was because of contractual  terms and was not an 
acceptance of the quality of the advice  hed been given. 
Mr M then complained to Mazars. Mazars didnt  accept it had given misleading advice or information  
in relation to the transfer, and continued to believe  the advice was suitable. Mazars also said its fees 
were fully disclosed in the report it prepared. But it also said some of the wording  used in the report  
wasnt as clear at might have been. As such, it was willing to offer to refund £1,200 of the fee Mr M 
paid. 
Mr M remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint  to us. He said his complaint was about:
the quality of the advice he was given, which  failed  to demonstrate  clearly how hed be better 
off and contained many vague statements;
misleading indication of fees,  and the size of the fees themselves; and
the advice he was given  appearing to be driven  by the potential  fee income Mazars would 
receive, rather than being independent advice. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  succeed. She said that the charges on the SIPP were 
high, and it wasnt  suitable advice to transfer into a product with excessive charges. She didnt think  
that a low critical yield to match the DB income or death benefits is enough to justify giving up the 
valuable scheme benefits. 
The adjudicator said that if the transfer had happened and Mr M complained about this, his complaint 
would have been upheld. She therefore didnt  think it was fair for Mr M to have to pay for the advice, 
and the fee should be refunded in full.
Mazars didnt  agree. It made a number of points:
It rejected the comment that the SIPP charges were high.  The fixed charge was small  
considering the size of the CETV.
The SIPP  wasnt recommended due to it not having exit charges, it was recommended 
because it had maximum flexibility for future investment options.
It doesnt  accept its charges are excessive  when  compared  to Mr Ms existing  scheme. Any 
move from a DB scheme will lead to increased charges,  and whether  they are excessive 
depends on the level of service provided. Mazars believes its charges are competitive.
Ref: DRN17992646Also,  it was never incumbent  on Mr M to accept  Mazars investment solution as part of the 
advice, and as such pay the charges  associated with this.  
Mr M was under no obligation to accept Mazars  investment solution  its engagement with 
him was to provide advice on the relative value/suitability of transferring  his pension.  
The advice on transferring away from a DB scheme isnt a simple process. There are a 
number of factors  to take into account, including  the clients appetite for risk, and their needs 
and objectives.
In Mr Ms case, his core requirement was to understand the options open to him. 
The question that the advice rests on is whether the DB scheme, with its valuable guarantees, 
was more or less attractive  to Mr M than the alternative arrangement. 
It undertook an in-depth analysis to assess  the growth  rate that would be needed for the SIPP 
to match the DB scheme pension. It also undertook a cashflow analysis  based on Mr Ms 
expected expenditure. .
Mazars concluded that accepting the CETV shouldnt jeopardise Mr Ms financial  security.  As 
such, the added flexibility and enhanced death  benefits associated with accepting  the SIPP 
outweighed the loss of the guaranteed  nature of the DB scheme. 
Taking everything into account, Mazars thought there was a reasonable case for transferring.
The matter has now been passed to me for consideration. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive included above a brief summary of the submissions made by the parties  to this complaint. But I 
confirm Ive taken account of all the available  evidence  before reaching my decision. 
Mr M had an initial meeting with Mazars  adviser in February  2017,  during which  his general  
circumstances and needs  were discussed. Hed already  received a CETV  from the administrator of 
the DB pension scheme. He was planning to retire  later that year, and wished  to take advice on 
whether to accept the CETV. Mr M was noted  to be open-minded about this, and was aware of the 
drawback of giving up a guaranteed, inflation-proofed income. 
Mr M was then provided with Mazars  Specific Service Appendix. This included such matters as the 
scope of the work Mazars  would be undertaking and the fees Mr M would  be charged. It said Mazars 
had agreed  to charge a fixed fee of £4,750 for this work. This was exclusive  of VAT, but may be 
subject to VAT at the standard  rate. The document also included the following statement:
Please note that in the event of you not proceeding  with our recommendations or termination of 
these instructions at any time, we will account to you for all our time costs incurred up to that date. 
This fee may be subject  to VAT at the standard rate. 
The information regarding Mazars advice fee was also confirmed in an email to Mr M in February 
2017.
Mr M signed the Appendix on 7 March 2017.
Mazars produced a suitability report in April 2017,  which  ran to over 70 pages. But it also provided a 
summary of its recommendations  in a covering letter. Mazars recommended  that Mr M should  transfer 
into a SIPP for the following reasons:
Mr M would have flexibility to access his pension at a time and manner  that suited him.
Mr M would be able to manage how much tax he would pay depending on the timing of him 
taking his benefits.
If he died,  the SIPP could be left to a beneficiary  of his choice.
The SIPP  fund could be invested and therefore have the potential to grow.
Ref: DRN17992647Mazars said the potential disadvantages were:
The pension  income from a DB scheme is guaranteed and not affected by investment  
performance.
The DB scheme is largely inflation-proofed,  whereas hed be taking on this inflation  risk if he 
transferred.
The costs of the DB scheme  were met by his employer, so the transfer to a SIPP would result 
in additional charges.
Any guarantees  provided by the DB scheme  would  be lost upon transfer.
The income  from a SIPP could not be guaranteed  throughout Mr Ms lifetime.  
The letter also included a section headed  Advice charge. This stated:
Our fee for the recommendations  made in this report will be calculated in accordance with our 
Specific Service Appendix  dated  4 December 2016 i.e. a fixed fee of £4,750.
The report also contained  a section headed Cost of advice.  This stated:
We previously agreed a fixed fee of £4,750 plus VAT (£5,700) to provide our advice to you on this 
matter.
In the event,  Mr M decided not to accept the advice to transfer away from his DB pension  scheme. So 
I note that while Mr M is concerned about the advice he was given, he has not suffered a loss as a 
result of that advice. Im also mindful that Mr M seems to have decided not to transfer away from the 
DB scheme  because  he felt that the benefits hed built-up over many years were  too valuable  to give 
up. I fully appreciate his reasoning. But this doesnt mean a recommendation to transfer is 
automatically unsuitable. While the transfer analysis  may show that it is possible  to match the benefits  
being given up, its very much a matter of personal choice  whether any particular  individual wants to 
take the risks involved. 
I appreciate the information  in Mazars report regarding the advice fee was not consistent, such  as the 
reference to VAT.  I also appreciate Mr M has told us he decided not to go ahead  as hed lost faith in 
Mazars. But Mr M had already signed an agreement in which the amount hed need to pay, and the 
prospect of this including  VAT,  was made clear. Mr M seems to have been willing  to go ahead  on this 
basis.
Mr M had been informed  by the administrator of his DB pension scheme  that if he decided to transfer 
into a defined  contribution scheme, hed be required to show  hed received advice from a UK-based 
independent financial  adviser. So as he was interested in investigating this option, it was necessary  
for Mr M engage a financial adviser. If hed not asked Mazars to act on his behalf for this purpose,  he 
would have had to approach another business. In any event, its likely he would  have been required to 
pay for the services he wanted. 
I note when  submitting his complaint to us Mr M said he wanted a refund  of the whole fee hed paid. 
But I dont think this would  be a fair outcome. Mr M engaged Mazars to review his pension and advise 
him on whether he should transfer.  This would  inevitably  involve a certain amount of work, such  as 
contacting his pension  scheme  for information  and carrying  out a transfer value analysis. As noted 
above, it was made clear  Mr M would need to pay Mazars advice fee whether or not he accepted the 
advice. 
I understand Mr M thinks that fees Mazars were  charging  were excessive. But its a matter of 
commercial judgment at what level an advisory  business sets its fee structure. This is not something 
in which this service will usually interfere. 
But Im also mindful  that Mazars has accepted there were some flaws  in the way it presented its 
report, and offered  to refund  £1,200 to Mr M. All in all, I think this is a reasonable outcome. Taking 
Ref: DRN17992648account of the full sum including  VAT, the amount paid by Mr M would be reduced to £4,500. The 
actual fee payable to Mazars  would  be £3,750.
Mr M says the CETV calculated  by the DB scheme administrators was based on Gilt yields at that 
time, which were  at an all-time low. If he obtains another CETV, he may have missed a unique 
opportunity given the probability  of an imminent  increase in bank base rates. 
Its true that a CETV is likely  to vary from time to time as it will be calculated  based on a variety of 
factors, including Gilt yields. So its possible that a future CETV  provided by the administrators of 
Mr Ms scheme  will be lower  than that given in January 2016. But Mr M decided  not to transfer largely 
because he wasnt convinced the CETV  would  provide better benefits in a different arrangement. So a 
lower CETV would be likely to make the prospect  of transferring out of the DB scheme, if anything, 
less attractive. 
In the circumstances,  I dont think the possibility  of the CETV reducing is material to the outcome of 
this complaint. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint in part, and require Mazars Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr M the sum of 
£1,200 as a partial refund of the fee he paid. 
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1799264