K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Nemo Personal  Finance Limited (Nemo) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2008.  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 2008 in association with a 
loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs M didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  I explain why below.
I have seen the loan agreement for the sale. The credit agreement  describes the PPI as 
Optional PPP Loan . The agreement explains the cost and shows  how that adds to the total 
monthly payment.  So, I think its more  likely  that PPI was presented  as optional and Mrs M 
chose to take it and thats how it came to be applied  to her loan account.  But I understand 
why she might not remember this, given  these events  happened  over 11 years ago.
Mrs M told us that she was placed under  pressure  to take the policy. It is not in doubt that 
Mrs Ms recollections are made in good  faith. However, this is a subjective area and so Id 
need to have some evidence  that supports Mrs Ms testimony to be able to uphold  on this 
subject in this case. I have listened  to the phone call in which  PPI was discussed and I do 
not think that the exchange could reasonably support a complaint  of pressured selling. Its 
possible that Mrs M felt under pressure anyway but in the absence  of any further  evidence  in 
support of Mrs Ms testimony, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably  conclude  that she 
only took the policy because she was put under pressure  to do so.
Nemo says the policy was sold without a formal recommendation. Ive been shown no 
documentary evidence  that suggests that the policy was sold on an advised basis.  So, Nemo 
had to give Mrs M clear enough  information  about the policy  so she could decide if she 
wanted to buy it. 
Its possible the information Nemo gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I dont  think better information would have stopped her from buying it. I explain 
why I say that below.  
 
Mrs M was eligible for the policy.  And there are things that sometimes  arent covered by a 
policy like this, or for which the benefit might be more difficult  to get than may have been 
expected, but it seems  that Mrs M wouldnt have been affected by those. For instance Mrs M 
told us she was employed and had no pre-existing medical conditions. 
Ref: DRN16013702And I think that Mrs M had, most  likely, a need for the cover. I say because Mrs M told us 
she was entitled  to no sick pay and had no other means which may have been helpful for a 
while. But this policy could have paid out for up to a year if Mrs M lost her job, and for the 
duration of the loan if she was too ill to work  through sickness  or accident. So, having  
considered this, on balance, I think that Mrs M would have found  the policy useful.
The policy appears  to have been inflexible in that Mrs M may not have got back  a pro rata 
refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled a policy early. But Ive listened to the sales call 
and this was explained to Mrs M during  the call. So I dont think this meant  the policy wasnt  
right for her. 
And whilst I could understand  it if Mrs M thought now that the policy  was expensive, I think 
the costs were set out clearly on the agreement and I havent  seen anything to make  me 
think the policy was unaffordable to Mrs M or that she had a need to keep  costs  down. And 
given how long the policy could have paid out for, most likely, if Mrs M made a successful 
claim, she could have got back  quite a bit more  than she paid for it. So I dont think that in 
this case the cost made the policy unsuitable  for Mrs M.
So for the reasons given above  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put Mrs M 
off taking out the cover. 
Which means Nemo doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Nemo  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:  
Nemo got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  Nemo didnt tell Mrs M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right,  Nemo has basically offered  to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Nemo has to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Nemo should also pay back to Mrs M any extra interest Mrs M paid 
because of that.
Nemo should pay back  to Mrs M the extra she paid each month on the loan because the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mrs M paid if the loan was paid off early. Nemo  should  also pay Mrs M 8%* simple  interest 
on the extra paid each month.  
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nemo  Personal  Finance Limited  does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN16013703But Nemo  Personal  Finance  Limited does have  to pay back to Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1601370