K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains about the issues that shes had with a car that was supplied to her under a 
hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as 
Alphera Financial  Services.
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss L under a hire purchase agreement with Alphera  Financial 
Services that she signed in December 2017.  The car was about three years old and had 
been driven for 18,883  miles. Miss L arranged through the dealer for a third party  to visit her 
to programme a spare  key for the car but in doing so the third party  accidentally  wiped clean 
the cars  central  processing unit. The car was returned to the dealer for that issue  to be 
rectified and Miss L was provided with a courtesy car. Miss L settled her agreement  in 
August 2018 but she then reclaimed seven monthly payments of £166.94 each from 
Alphera Financial  Services  under a direct debit indemnity  and she complained  to it. She 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He appreciated 
Miss Ls frustration about the issues with the central  processing unit but he didnt think that 
Alphera Financial  Services  had acted unfairly in asking Miss L for her monthly payments. 
And he said that the indemnity claim caused  Miss Ls account to go into arrears  with the 
amount still being  owed  which would  also result in adverse information being  recorded on 
her credit file. And he said that Miss L was kept mobile so he felt that no compensation 
should be given  as both the dealer  and Alphera Financial Services had acted fairly.
Miss L has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that she didn't ask for the money  back and has gained  nothing from it. She says 
that the central processing unit issue was not a minor fault  and shes  done nothing  wrong  
and is having  to pay for other peoples mistakes. She also says that shes  entered  into an 
individual voluntary arrangement because shes having financial problems due to a 
relationship break-down.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alphera Financial  Services,  as the supplier  of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the 
car was of satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age, 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to Miss L 
was three  years old, had been driven for 18,883 miles  and cost £8,998.  Satisfactory quality 
also covers durability which  means that the components within the car must  be durable and 
last a reasonable amount  of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number 
of factors. 
The car was supplied to Miss L in December 2017.  There was an issue  with the spare  key in 
March 2018 and Miss L arranged through the dealer for a third party to visit her to 
programme a spare key for the car but in doing so the third party accidentally wiped clean 
the cars  central  processing unit. The car was returned to the dealer and it rectified the issue  
with the central  processing unit. Miss L says that she was without the car from March to July 
2018 but the dealer  says that the car was returned  to Miss L in May 2018 and she was 
Ref: DRN17768552without her car for less than two months. Miss L was provided  with a courtesy car during that 
period. Miss L wasnt happy with the courtesy car but Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the courtesy car wasnt suitable for her or that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Alphera Financial Services to take any further action relating  to 
the courtesy car.
I can understand Miss Ls frustration about the issue with the central processing unit. But 
that issue was caused  accidentally by the third party  who was programming the spare key 
and the issue  has been rectified  by the dealer.  I dont consider that that issue  caused the car 
not to be of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Miss L and I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  for me to require Alphera  Financial Services  to take any action in 
connection with that issue.  
Miss L settled her agreement in August 2018  and she then reclaimed seven monthly  
payments of £166.94  each from Alphera  Financial  Services  under a direct  debit  indemnity. 
She says that she didnt  ask for those payments back and that she thought that they were  a 
goodwill gesture from Alphera Financial Services. 
Miss L had agreed  to make monthly  payments  of £166.94 to Alphera  Financial  Services and 
it had taken the payments that shed  made  into account when calculating the settlement 
figure. I consider that Alphera Financial  Services was entitled to those payments and Im not 
persuaded that theres any evidence to show that it refunded them  to Miss L as a goodwill 
gesture. I consider  it to be more likely than not that Miss L claimed those payments back 
from it under  a direct debit  indemnity. That caused  her account to go into arrears and I 
consider it to be fair and reasonable for Alphera  Financial Services  to seek  repayment from 
Miss L of the amount  that she reclaimed (to the extent that its legally entitled to do so).
I sympathise with Miss L for the financial and other difficulties that shes experiencing. But 
Im not persuaded that Alphera Financial Services has acted incorrectly  in its dealings  with 
her. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to write-off  the 
outstanding amount that is due from Miss L - or to take any other  action in response to her 
complaint. But in seeking repayment from Miss L, Alphera Financial Services is required to 
respond to any financial  difficulties that shes suffering  positively and sympathetically.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1776855