K822xcomplaint
Mr H and Ms T complain they were mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background 
Mr H and Ms T were living in the property together, but the existing mortgage was in Mr Hs 
name only. They took advice from L&G about re-mortgaging  to add Ms T and borrow  some 
further money for home improvements.  They moved  lender, and switched from a variable 
rate to a fixed rate.
Mr H and Ms T are now represented by a claims management company (CMC). Acting  on 
their behalf,  the CMC  says that the mortgage advice was unsuitable  because  there  was no 
need for a new mortgage. It says that the fees charged were  excessive, and Mr H and Ms T 
shouldnt have been advised to pay for a will using funds raised on the mortgage.
L&G offered  to refund the interest charged  on the cost of the will, and commission  the broker  
received from the solicitor, plus £250. But it thought the mortgage advice was suitable   as 
did our investigator.  So the CMC asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont agree with the CMC that there  was no need  to re-mortgage. The paperwork from the 
time  which  it hasnt suggested  is incorrect   records that Ms T wasnt  on the previous 
mortgage. Mr H and Ms T wanted  to add her. And they wanted to raise  a significant sum for 
home improvements. So there was a need to re-mortgage, in order to achieve those aims. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that this mortgage  was less suitable  than any of the others 
available, and it was the cheapest per month of those the broker  considered.  It also 
achieved another  of their aims   fixing a rate to protect against interest rate rises. Im 
satisfied, on the evidence before me, that this was a suitable recommendation.
I dont think the fees the broker charged  were  unreasonable. They were set out to Mr H and Ms T. 
They received the service  they paid for. While this broker  structured  its fees differently to other  
brokers, there are no rules about  that, and I think  Mr H and Ms T understood and agreed to the 
fees they would need to pay for the advice they were given. I note that L&G has offered to refund 
interest on the will cost and the commission,  and I think  thats  fair in all the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint. I dont require 
it to take any further action once its paid the settlement offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 June 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1548798