K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that the Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a single 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1991 when he applied for a loan to 
buy a car.
background
Mr S complained to this Service.  He said he applied for a loan to buy a car in a car 
dealership in 1991. He said he was told by Company L or Company W that he had to have 
the PPI to get the loan  so he concludes the PPI was mis-sold to him. He named Company 
L and he named  his lender, Company W, as the possible companies which sold him the PPI 
that day.   
Our adjudicator did a very thorough investigation for Mr S and looked into whether Company 
L or Company W were responsible for selling the policy.  Our adjudicator  found  that 
Company L was no longer trading and so we could not set up a complaint against Company 
L. 
In respect of Company W, our investigator  explained  that the lender Company W was not 
covered by our scheme at the time of the sale or by any other scheme before that, so we 
could not look at a complaint against Company  W. We explained this to Mr S in a letter in 
2016, so we would not have looked further  into this company after that date.
Our adjudicator was told that Company Ws loan agreements were  likely to have PPI policies  
underwritten by FICL  so Mr S agreed  to bring his mis-sale complaint against  FICL. 
FICL said it was not the insurance provider  or the underwriter for Mr Ss policy in respect of 
this particular loan,  so it concludes it was not responsible for the PPI sale.  It could not 
identify who sold the PPI or who was the insurance provider from the available  documents.  
FICL concludes it is not responsible for looking at Mr Ss PPI mis-sale complaint.
On a deeper investigation,  our adjudicator agreed with FICL and said it was probably not 
responsible for this PPI sale. Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators views and asked for the 
matter to be looked at again. 
I issued my provisional decision in February 2019  where I explained why I did not think  FICL 
was responsible for the PPI sale and so I could not uphold the complaint against FICL. We 
sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties and invited them  to comment or 
produce new evidence  to change my mind. FICL had nothing  further  to add. 
Mr S made the following  points:
He wanted  to know why the case had been  set up against FICL;
At no time did he say FICL was responsible for selling  him PPI;
He had always said Company L or the lender,  Company W, sold him PPI;
Company W only ceased trading in 2018 so this complaint could have been sorted 
out a while  ago;
He was frustrated  that we had not given him advice about  what to do when Company 
W ceased trading.
Ref: DRN12307042I understand Mr Ss frustration that our adjudicators  did not give him the advice he wanted   
but this Service  is an impartial  one and we cannot give advice to consumers. So once our 
adjudicator gave Mr S the investigation result  about  Company W in 2016,  we would not have 
continued to monitor  Company W to advise him about further action to take after it had 
ceased trading  two years later. 
I can see from all the investigations  on the file that our adjudicators have conducted a very 
thorough investigation into all companies  listed by Mr S and I can see they wrote to him to 
confirm the results of their investigations at various times  so I apologise if we did not make  
the investigation results  clear enough to him. However, as we were not in a position to 
investigate a complaint  against either  Company L or the lender Company W, our adjudicator 
then tried to look into whether FICL  might  be responsible for the PPI sale.
In this case, I dont  think Mr S has produced  any new evidence about FICL  for me to 
consider. So I see no reason  to change the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account, along  with 
the law, in deciding Mr Ss case.   
The first thing I need to decide is whether FICL  is responsible for the sale of the PPI policy. If 
I decide it is, then I can decide whether the sale happened  as it shouldve done.  If I dont  
think FICL was responsible for the sale to Mr S, then Im not able to consider a PPI mis-sale 
complaint against  it. 
Having looked  at the evidence, I do not think that FICL is responsible for looking at this 
complaint about  the PPI policy sold to Mr S in 1991.  So it follows that if FICL had nothing  to 
do with the PPI sale, I cannot  say it did anything wrong during the PPI sale;  and I will not 
uphold this mis-sale complaint against  FICL. I know this will disappoint Mr S, so I will explain 
why.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by Mr S about the sale.  He recalled  he was getting  a 
loan at the car dealership  to buy a car. He says he was told he would have to have the PPI 
to get the loan  and he also says he was self-employed and did not need PPI. He produced  
his credit agreement and part of an insurance  policy certificate. It seems that the insurance 
policy certificate was covering another later loan  not this one taken out in 1991  so I 
cannot rely on it as evidence in respect of this PPI sale.  
He is certain the policy was mis-sold  to him but there is no conclusive evidence  on the 
documents produced by Mr S to show FICL  sold the policy  to him. So I understand Mr Ss 
frustration at the time this case has taken to be investigated by all parties   only to get a 
negative result.  
FICL explained it was not the insurer provider at the time Mr S bought his policy in 1991  and 
it could not say who the insurer was. Neither was there any proof that FICL was the 
insurance underwriter or that it was involved in this sale at all. So having considered 
everything weve been told, I dont think FICL  is responsible for the PPI sale.
Ref: DRN12307043As I think  FICL was not responsible for the PPI sale, it follows  that it also was not 
responsible for carrying out the PPI sale properly. So I am not going to uphold this PPI mis-
sale complaint against  FICL. 
I am sorry  the case has taken so much time to reach  this final stage but unfortunately, this is 
unavoidable whilst we have been sorting  out the issues  if a business will not or cannot 
accept responsibility  for looking  at a consumers complaint. I can see our adjudicator did a 
very thorough investigation and reported  on all possible  avenues  of complaint to Mr S but  
and I am sorry to disappoint Mr S - this will be as far as this Service  can take this complaint 
against FICL. 
my final decision
My final decision is that the Financial  Insurance Company Limited is not responsible  for this 
PPI sale so I do not uphold the PPI mis-sale complaint against the Financial Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1230704