K820x#14complaint
Mrs Fs complaint concerns a life insurance  term policy sold to her by The Prudential  
Assurance Company  Limited. She feels the policy was mis-sold as she wanted joint cover 
with her late husband that would cover her for the whole of her life. 
background
The policy was sold in 1991. Sadly  in 2006 Mrs Fs husband passed way and enquiries were 
made with Prudential about the policy. It was confirmed that it only covered  Mrs Fs life  not 
both her and her husbands as shed thought. 
She continued with the policy until this year when  she received a letter explaining that its 
term was coming an end. Again, this wasnt in line with Mrs Fs understanding of the policy,  
as she thought it had always been on a whole of life basis  rather than a term basis.
Mrs F complained to Prudential but it didnt uphold the complaint. It felt that it had been 
made clear to Mrs F when  she took out the policy that it was for a 28 year term and covered 
only her life. Prudential  noted that Mrs F felt shed been given  incorrect reassurance about  
how the policy worked on several  occasions over the years but it could find no evidence to 
support this, such as call recordings.  
Mrs F referred the complaint to this service but our investigator reached  the same  conclusion 
as Prudential, that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He felt the documentation completed  
in 1991 at the time of the sale showed that Mrs F had applied for a term assurance policy to 
cover her life only, alongside  a pension with Prudential that she started at the same time. 
Mrs F maintained that the policy had been mis-sold  as her and her husband had been led to 
believe the policy was a joint one with no fixed term. She questioned why anyone would 
want to take out life cover that ended  at age 59. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I recognise Mrs F 
will be very disappointed, Ive reached  the same conclusion as the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons.  
I understand Mrs F feels very strongly that she was led to believe the policy would  provide  
cover for the whole of her life. And while Ive no reason  to doubt her recollections,  in 
reaching a fair and reasonable  conclusion I have to take account of all the evidence, 
including the documents  created at the time of the sale. And unfortunately those documents 
dont support Mrs Fs position.  They show that the policy was set up for a 28 year term to 
cover her life only.
I can also understand, given the very unfortunate events  that Mrs F has experienced over 
the term of the policy, why she mightve had some  uncertainty about how the policy worked.  
And I note shes said that shes held a number of other policies with Prudential  over the 
period in question, which  may have  made  keeping track of how they all worked  more  difficult. 
Ref: DRN15506532But in all the circumstances,  I dont think that, on balance, I can reasonably make a finding 
that Prudential  acted incorrectly in selling the policy in 1991.  
I note Mrs F has questioned why anyone would want life cover to end at age 59 but its quite  
normal to take out cover  for a term that ends on or around the time when the policyholder 
may be reaching the end of their working life and any dependent children are likely  to have 
left home.  As such, I think it seems reasonable that Prudential sold a policy  with a fixed  term, 
which would also have  been a cheaper  way of providing the required life cover.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1550653