K821x#15complaint
Miss H says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about twenty  high-cost short term credit loans that Sunny provided to           
Miss H from December  2017 onwards. Miss Hs last loan was provided in September 2018. 
When Miss Hs complaint was referred  to us, Sunny  agreed that shouldnt  have provided 
loans 11 to 20 to Miss H.
Our adjudicator looked at Miss Hs case  and didnt think that this went far enough as she 
also thought that Miss H shouldnt have been  provided  with loans four to ten as well as loans 
11 to 20. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss H could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss H, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Miss H was unlikely  to have been  able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided her with loan four. 
Ref: DRN18962062I say this because  by this stage, Miss H already owed  Sunny a significant amount of money  
as a result  of having an outstanding loan. And these two loans were taken shortly  after 
previous ones had been  repaid.  In my view, this ought to have shown Sunny that Miss H 
was struggling to manage her money and that she might have been borrowing to cover  the 
hole paying previous loans was leaving in her finances. Sunny continued  lending  to Miss H 
even when this pattern  was repeated and in circumstances where it ought reasonably to 
have realised that any further  loans were more likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Miss H had to pay interest and charges on loans  that Sunny shouldnt  have provided her 
with. So I think that she lost out and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss H paid on loan four to twenty;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Hs credit file as a result  of loans 
four and five.
the number  of loans provided means that any information recorded  about loans to six 
to twenty on Miss Hs credit file is likely  to be adverse. So all reference to these  loans 
should be removed  from Miss Hs credit file.
If an outstanding  balance remains - after all interest and charges applied from the outset 
have been removed  on any of Miss Hs loans. Sunny can deduct this from what  it now 
needs to pay Miss H.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss H complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Miss H compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1896206