K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained about esure Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the valuation of 
his car following a claim on his motor  insurance  policy.
background
Mr D made  a claim on his car insurance policy after he was involved in an accident. esure 
decided his car was a write-off and offered him £7,775. But Mr D said that he wasnt  able to 
buy a similar  car, with similar mileage and extras, for that amount. Mr D felt that he needed  
£12,500 to buy a similar car so he complained to esure and then this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. Although  he didnt think  
that esures valuation  was unreasonable, as it was in line with the three valuation  guides it 
used, he looked  at a fourth guide  which suggested  a higher price. And he asked esure  to 
increase the valuation to £8,216.25  which  was an average of all four guides.
But esure didnt  agree. It said that the fourth  guide wasnt as accurate as the guides it used 
as this guide was focussed  more on advertised prices which it says are often inflated. It did 
offer an average of all three of the guides it used  (£8,000) but Mr D didnt agree. 
As esure didnt agree the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why. 
When looking at valuations placed  on cars by insurance companies I consider the approach 
they have adopted. And decide  whether or not the valuation  is fair in all the circumstances. 
As has been discussed previously this service pays particular attention to the various trade  
guides used for valuing  cars, as well as other evidence  provided by both sides.
This evidence might  include advertisements for the sale of similar cars and magazine 
articles; although I place less weight on advertisements than on the trade guides. This is 
because cars dont generally  sell for the price  at which they are advertised.  The condition of 
the car at the time the damage occurred is also an important factor to consider. I will only 
ask a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
In this instance Mr D has said that he has been  unable to find a similar car for the price  
esure has offered.  He says that this is because his car is rare and he highlights that it was in 
excellent condition  which I dont doubt.
But the guides have provided  values for his particular make and model of car in good 
condition with similar specification. It should be noted that not all additional  extras add value 
to a car once it is a few years old. But Mr D seems to accept this and has accepted the 
increase in value  that the adjudicator has suggested. So I wont go over this in any more 
detail.
Ref: DRN18800152I can understand esures initial  offer but it knows that our approach  has evolved over time in 
looking to ensure that customers  and businesses are treated fairly.  It is generally known 
within the industry that weve  started to use a fourth  trade guide in looking to ensure that we 
are as fair as possible.
In looking at the fourth guide it has valued Mr Ds car at a slightly higher amount than the 
other guides. Using all four guides  the valuation figure for Mr Ds car is £8,216.25 and so it 
seems fair to increase the valuation by £441.25.
I know esure questions the values provided  by this guide. It says that this guide is focused 
on advertised prices. But the guide  does look to provide  an accurate guide to the value 
placed on the car at the time of sale. All guides  are exactly that, a guide,  and valuing a car 
isnt an exact  science and the value suggested is below the highest  guide price that esure 
used in its original  valuation. So I think that taking  all four of the guides into account seems 
fair in the particular  circumstances of this case.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr D an additional £441.25  plus our usual 8% interest from the date of claim 
until the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1880015