K820x#14Complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the action taken  by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) when he fell 
victim to a scam. 
Background
What Mr L says
Mr L was interested  in buying specialised telephone numbers. He says he contacted a well-
known mobile phone provider, which said it would make a referral for him. Mr L also 
completed an online enquiry form to a company who supplied  specialised  numbers. He was 
then contacted by someone who said they were  from the specialist company, initially by 
telephone and then WhatsApp, and decided to go ahead  and buy some numbers. He 
received an invoice for one number on 24 May 2018 and a further invoice for five numbers 
on 1 June 2018. Both invoices were sent by email. Mr L no longer has the two emails he 
received attaching the invoices.
Mr L made two payments  in branch to the company  he believed  would provide him with 
specialised telephone numbers. The first payment on 24 May 2018 was for £5,500 and the 
second on 1 June 2018 was for £4,700. He says that after he made the first payment, he 
received confirmation  that an order had been  placed  and the specialist company was waiting  
for the numbers. He had also been travelling  and returned the day the second payment was 
due, so went ahead and made  it.  
When Mr L didnt receive  the personalised telephone numbers, he realised he was the victim 
of a scam.  Mr L was unhappy because he says that in spite of his request to ensure the 
payment was made to the right beneficiary (the real company Mr L completed the online 
query about) when  he went  into branch  this didnt happen. Payment was made  to the 
account number  and sort-code provided, but the name of the beneficiary  wasnt  correct.  Mr L 
says he normally makes  payments online but chose to go into branch to make  both 
payments to ensure payment was made to the right beneficiary. 
What Barclays say
Barclays explained to Mr L that it was his responsibility to ensure all the payment details 
were correct. Barclays said the sort-code and account  number  take precedence over any 
other detail  like the account  name.  Under the Payment Services Directive,  when these  
details are correct, the payment is made without intervention. In relation to reclaiming Mr Ls 
funds Barclays said they raised an indemnity when Mr L notified them of the fraud  on 3 June 
2018. Barclays were told only £3.67  remained and this sum was returned  to Ls account  in 
October 2018.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered the complaint didnt  uphold it. He said Mr L had been the 
victim of fraud, but Barclays had no way of knowing or preventing the fraud and acted 
reasonably. The investigator also noted that Barclays  did what  they could to recover Mr Ls 
money, but by the time they were notified of the fraud it had already been removed from the 
receiving account. 
Ref: DRN19289192Mr L didnt agree with the investigators  opinion.  He said he contacted Barclays on 1 June, 
before some  of the funds were  withdrawn from the receiving bank. Mr L also reiterated that 
he went into the branch  rather than making  the payment online because  he wanted  it to be 
made to a specified  beneficiary. He said he wouldnt have made the payment had he been 
told Barclays didnt check this. Mr L asked  that an ombudsman review  his complaint, so its 
been passed to me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
-In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr L when he authorised the payments from his account or whether it could and should 
have done more before processing them. That is a question of fact and degree
depending on the circumstances of each  individual case.
Did Barclays act fairly and reasonably in Mr Ls case?
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter  of good practice Barclays  should have been  on 
the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions. So Ive first considered whether the 
payment requests Mr L made were  out of character  and unusual. Having reviewed Mr Ls 
bank statements for the six months  before he made  the transfers,  I dont think they were  
Ref: DRN19289193considering Mr Ls normal  account  and payment activity. Ive set out below some relevant  
payments. 
Date Method Amount
17/01/18 Cash withdrawal £34,000
09/02/18 Card £3,129.18
07/02/18 Other £6,537.67
07/02/18 Other £32,200
0703/18 Other £3,401.67
07/04/18 Card £6,400
Mr Ls payment history shows he made payments for similar or higher amounts  in the six 
months before the relevant transactions and that some of them (those marked other) were  
made in the same way as the two disputed transfers. 
Both transfers left Mr L with a healthy balance  in his account (£19,126.58  and £14,839.91),  
so he was still able to make his usual payments. 
Mr L made two payments  to a new payee  (the scammer) in a week.  Given the value of the 
payments is not unusual,  they are made just over a week  apart  and the second payment is 
smaller in value than the first, Im not persuaded they are particularly unusual  to warrant  
Barclays being concerned and therefore  ask Mr L questions about  the payments. But as Mr 
L was in branch and the branch had an opportunity to discuss  the payments with Mr L, Ive 
thought about whether a conversation would have  made a difference.  
Whilst I think Barclays could have asked  some questions, I dont consider further  questioning  
by Barclays staff would have changed anything. Mr L would have provided a reasonable 
explanation for the payments  that they were for specialised telephone numbers for his 
business  which I consider  would have been  accepted. At the time of payment Mr L had no 
reason to believe there was anything unusual about  the beneficiary  and payment  details  or 
that he wouldnt receive the personalised numbers he expected. Mr L went ahead  and made  
the second payment before hed received the first number,  so clearly had no concerns 
himself at the time.  
Mr L says he took the invoices  from the company into Barclays with him when he made the 
payments. Ive seen  the invoices and dont  think  theres anything about  them  that would 
have alerted staff to a potential problem. 
Mr L says he asked  Barclays  staff to ensure his funds went to a specific  beneficiary, the real 
telephone company he thought he was paying.  He believes if Barclays  was unable check the 
name of the beneficiary it should  have  told him or stopped the payments.  I wasnt present 
when Mr L went into branch to make  the transactions and there  are no records  of what  was 
discussed. But at the time all that was required to make a payment  was the sort-code and 
account number.  The relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations  2017  (PSR 
2017) set out that payments are sent according to the unique  identifiers  (typically  the 
account number  and sort code). In particular,  section 90 of the PSR 2017 states:
(1) Where  a payment  order is executed in accordance with the unique  identifier, the 
payment order is deemed  to have  been correctly  executed by each payment service provider 
involved in executing the payment  order with respect to the payee specified by the unique 
identifier. 
Ref: DRN19289194(2) Where the unique identifier provided by the payment  service  user is incorrect, the 
payment service provider is not liable  under regulation 91 or 92 for non-execution or 
defective execution  of the payment transaction, but the payment service provider 
The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account
number and sort code  instructed by the payer (here, Mr L). At the time there was no 
regulatory requirement to check  the beneficiary  name provided. So I cant  fairly  say that 
Barclays didnt follow Mr Ls instruction when it sent the payment to the account number and 
sort code  provided,  and Im not persuaded that it should have done more to check the 
beneficiary in the circumstances of this payment.
Whilst its not clear what conversation took place, if Mr L told staff in branch he wanted to 
ensure funds went to a specific  beneficiary I consider they would think  he meant  to the 
correct sort-code and account number. In any event, they would not have been  able to check 
or give Mr L the name of the beneficiary  because the account was held with a different bank 
so if Mr L pursued this point as he says I consider hed have been told this. 
Recovery
Ive also looked  at whether Barclays took the steps  it should  have  once it was aware  that the 
payment was made because Mr L was the victim of fraud. Im satisfied Barclays  did. The 
situation is different  for each payment, so Ive considered them  separately  below.
First payment
Unfortunately, at the time Barclays  contacted the receiving  bank,  Mr Ls money had already 
been removed  from the receiving account. Barclays sent a notice to the receiving  bank at 
11.04 on 3 June 2018 and all the money relating to this first payment left the receiving  bank 
account by the end of 29 May 2018.
Second payment
Again Ive looked at whether Barclays took reasonable  steps once it was notified  of the 
fraud. Mr L has said he contacted Barclays on 1 June 2018 to notify it of the fraud  and so it 
should have attempted to recover his funds  then, before they were  removed from the 
beneficiary account. He said he made the second  payment on 1 June  2018,  but later in the 
afternoon, after realising  he wasnt  going  to get his numbers, he called Barclays  to report  the 
fraud. Barclays told him if the money  for the second  payment was still there, it should be 
able to get it back, but it was unlikely  the first payment  would still be in the receiving account. 
Barclays records show Mr L first contacted it about the scam payments on 3 June 2018. 
Mr L has provided me with the number he called Barclays from, so I asked Barclays to check  
its records again. Barclays  said it doesnt have any record of a call from Mr L before 3 June 
2018. Mr L has tried to get a phone bill to show he called Barclays  on 1 June but has been 
unable to do so. This is because he has changed mobile providers and hasnt  retained  a 
copy of the bill. He also points to the fact the call was made some years  ago. 
Given the uncertainty about when the scam  was reported I asked Barclays for a recording of 
the call in which the scam was first reported. Having listened to the recording of the call 
provided Im satisfied it took place on 3 June 2018  as Barclays have told me. I say this 
because in the call there was a conversation about the need for Mr L to go into a branch and 
Ref: DRN19289195it was noted the branch was closed  until Monday  morning (4 June 2018). Barclays  records 
also show the call took place on 3 June 2018.  
Im also persuaded  the scam wasnt  reported prior to the call Ive listened to on 3 June 2018. 
In the call, Mr L explained hed contacted  the receiving bank and the police, and the police 
had told him he needed  to contact his local bank. Mr L told the advisor what  had happened, 
and she contacted the scams team, which asked for more details from Mr L so that a claim 
could be logged. There was no reference  during the call to any previous contact with 
Barclays about the scam and a claim hadnt been  logged. 
Evidence from the receiving bank  shows that funds were removed between 15.42  and 15.46 
on 1 June 2018. As Im persuaded the scam  was first reported to Barclays  on 3 June 2018, I 
dont consider Barclays could have done  more to recover Mr Ls funds. 
Overall
Im sorry  Mr L has lost a substantial sum of money  and appreciate  this has had a significant  
impact on him, but I dont  conclude Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably in this case. It 
follows Im not asking Barclays to refund the money  Mr L lost when he fell victim  to a scam. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2020.
Jay Hadfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1928919