K821x#15complaint
Mr D complaints that Morgans Ltd gave him unsuitable advice regarding transferring his 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) and a subsequent transfer into Income  Drawdown.
background
Mr D says he was first introduced to an adviser at Morgans Ltd through  his union in 2002.  
Hes told us he was an inexperienced  investor  and as the adviser was recommended 
through his union, he trusted  her to act in his best interest.
Mr D was advised to transfer his occupational  pension scheme (OPS) to a section 32 policy 
in 2002. 
Mr D also held a personal pension plan in 2002.  He told us he was advised by Morgans Ltd 
to transfer this pension into another personal pension plan and later transfer  it to an income 
drawdown (this will be considered under a separate  case  reference).
Mr D says he was informed by his new advisor in January 2017, after theyd contacted his 
pension providers for information, that the advice hed previously received to transfer his 
various pension  policies had severely  impacted his pension  provision. And he was advised 
to make a complaint.
Mr D is unhappy with the advice he received. He says he lost the benefit  of withdrawing a 
higher amount of tax-free cash when  his section 32 policy was transferred. And he was 
paying a higher rate of tax on income he didnt need  from his income  drawdown  policy, 
which he later stopped. As such, Mr D raised a complaint with Morgans Ltd.
Morgans Ltd believed the complaint to be out of time, but they also said the advice provided 
was sound.
I issued a decision concluding that this complaint  had been made in time and could  be 
considered. After which our investigator looked  into the merits. She upheld  the complaint, 
explaining that suitable advice wouldve  been to tell Mr D to remain  in the OPS  in 2002. She 
said that Mr D had no reason to transfer  when he did. He couldve waited until he was age 
50 to consider his circumstances then. In transferring, his funds were put at unnecessary 
investment risk. And later the transfer  from the section 32, which  reduced the tax-free cash  
figure was clearly unsuitable given the rationale for taking benefits. And she concluded  that 
had Mr D been given  suitable advice, he wouldnt have taken his tax-free  cash early. She 
also said that the adviser didnt establish  the need  for the tax-free cash as was required.  
Morgans Ltd responded  to say it disagreed with the investigators findings  and it would like 
a final decision.  It said the investigators  view was very one sided and it didnt take into 
account that Mr D wanted  to access  his tax-free cash. It also said it could not have told him 
in more certain terms that by taking the action he desired, that he would compromise the 
guaranteed benefits he had. It believes the claim  is being made with hindsight.
The information recorded at the time of OPS transfer in 2002
A fact-find  wasnt completed   or if it was its no longer available.  However,  the evidence 
we do have is that at the time of advice Mr D circumstances were:
Ref: DRN13563242He was married with no dependent children and he wished to provide for his wife 
in the event of his death
He was employed with a new employer and was earning less than his 
previous employment
He was contributing  to a group personal  pension with his new employer
He wanted  to access his tax-free  cash early  possibly at age 50
His OPS was his main pension provision  for him and his wife - he had a 
smaller protected rights personal pension
He was an inexperienced investor
His attitude to risk (ATR) was assessed  as being  cautious  to realistic  which  was 
described to mean Mr D wanted to benefit from long term investment, though  he 
was wary  of stock  market  volatility  and therefore  preferred  low risk investments
Morgans Ltd recommended Mr D transfer  his OPS into a section 32 policy.  The letter  said:
His objective was to access tax-free  cash even  though he intends to keep working
To do this the pension  will also need to be taken but dependant on circumstances at 
the time various  options are available and can be discussed at time of proposed  
retirement
Mr Ds pension will be diminished  quite severely on early retirement but Mr Ds 
requirement to access tax-free cash means that the pension will also have to be 
accessed
Mr D would have more flexibility at retirement
The maximum tax-free  cash available  from the OPS was £32,595  and this figure  
was also available  at retirement at 50.
The OPS figures  arent  guaranteed  and are just an indication of what  benefits may 
be available. It could  be more or less at chosen date of retirement 
The critical yield to retirement of 9% would  usually  be of concern.  However,  as Mr 
D intends to retire early  and possibly as early as 50, the investment return  needed 
to match  his preserved benefits at age 50, were  acceptable at 5.9%.
Many  people are swayed to transfer by the much enhanced  pre-retirement death 
benefits. If Mr D were  to die before 50 his wife would  only receive £2,000  a year.  
However, once transferred Mr Ds wife would receive the whole value of the fund.
In 2005 Mr D was subsequently advised to transfer his section  32 policy  into income 
drawdown. Mr D was also advised to open  an ISA to transfer the income he was withdrawing 
from the drawdown. 
The reason  given for the advice to crystallise Mr Ds pension benefits at this stage was that 
he required  the maximum tax-free cash but not income as he intended  to keep working  for 
many years. The reasons for the need  for tax-free  cash requirement werent recorded.
In transferring into drawdown Mr D lost his protected tax-free cash amount from the OPS. 
And he received  a considerably reduced  figure. A comparison of the figures  wasnt  included 
in the recommendation and the loss of the protected tax free-cash wasnt  mentioned either in 
any of the sale documentation.
It doesnt appear a fact-find was completed in this sale either. The investigator asked Mr D 
about his circumstances then and why he required the tax-free cash.  He told us that at the 
Ref: DRN13563243time hed paid off his mortgage with redundancy money but was looking for additional cash 
to buy a caravan  and a new car. He said he was considering re-mortgaging  and other 
financing options  but he was persuaded to take his tax-free  cash  from the pension and go 
into drawdown by the adviser.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The applicable  rules,  regulations and requirements  
The advice to transfer was given in July 2002. Prior to December 2001,  the relevant rules  
that were adopted  by our predecessor the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) were 
FIMBRA and LAUTRO.  But in December 2001,  the Financial Services  Authority introduced 
its COB  rulebook which built on these two schemes. Importantly here,  COB  added the 
presumption of unsuitability:
When advising a customer  who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined  
benefits occupational pension scheme  whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming  it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence  available  
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
Other selected requirements from the time that are relevant to this transfer are:
COB 5.3.29A(4)
prospective investor to receive sufficient, clear  information to make an informed investment 
decision based on a firm understanding  of the risks involved and a knowledge  of what 
protection, rights, expectations and options they may be giving up.
A reason why (or equivalent)  letter  was required which:
 explain why that advice is suitable. That explanation should take explicit  account  of the 
alternative of remaining  within  the occupational scheme.
demonstrate a real link between  the circumstances,  objectives  and risk profile of the 
investor, and the recommendation  made to him or her by the firm.
The guidance required  a Transfer  value  analysis (TVAS) for the first time, which was to be 
discussed with the investor in simple clear  language. 
The regulators said that a fact find designed with pension transfers in mind would be 
needed, and set out the information required from the investor  and the pension scheme.
COB 5.3.22
1.
Ref: DRN13563244A firm must ensure that a transfer value analysis  is carried out in accordance with 
COB 6.6.87  R - COB 6.6.93  R (Projections) before it makes any recommendation to 
a customer to transfer out of a defined benefits pension  scheme .
2.
A copy of the analysis  must be delivered  with the key features document or otherwise 
provided to the customer before he gives consent to the application to transfer.
3. 
The firm must take reasonable steps to ensure  the customer understands the 
analysis, drawing attention to factors  which do and do not support  the 
recommendation to transfer.
What it is I have to decide?
I need to decide whether the advice given to Mr D in 2002 and later in 2005 was suitable  
considering his circumstances at the time.
When providing the advice to Mr D in 2002 to transfer out of his OPS, the adviser  needed to 
start with the assumption that it wouldnt  be suitable to do so. There were also requirements 
to provide a fair and balanced  picture  of the advantages and disadvantages of transferring 
so that the customer  was well informed to make a decision.
Looking at the sale documentation  provided  by Morgans Ltd, the adviser didnt meet the 
requirements of the time in terms of the information  gathered and the information  provided to 
Mr D. It doesnt  appear that a fact-find was completed in either sales, the recommendation 
was lacking in detail and focused  mainly on the benefits of transferring. I dont think the 
presumption of unsuitability was considered. This doesnt in itself mean that the advice  was 
unsuitable but its not a good base for suitable advice.
It appears a transfer  value  analysis of sorts was carried out  although  only the summary of 
this in the recommendation letter is available. This said that the critical yield to normal 
retirement age was 9% and this was of concern  to the point where  a transfer probably 
wouldnt be in Mr Ds best interests.
Mr Ds recorded attitude to risk (ATR) was cautious  to realistic and that he was looking for 
long term investment returns,  wary  of stock-market  returns and would like to compensate  his 
risk by making low risk investments. So its fair to say given Mr Ds ATR, a critical yield of 9% 
over some 15 years would likely be unattainable.
At the time of advice  it was recorded that Mr Ds OPS at age 63 would pay him a £8,191.80  
plus a temporary pension for three  years  of £3,708.12. He could also benefit  from tax-free  
cash of £32,000.  Unfortunately the documentation  from the time doesnt show how much the 
pension would be reduced if full tax free cash is selected at retirement. 
The adviser based their recommendation on Mr D wishing to retire  early at age 50 due to his 
requirement for tax-free cash. In essence  recommending that Mr D put at significant risk his 
primary source of retirement  provision due to a need  for tax-free  cash  three years in the 
future. However,  no record  was made of why Mr D needed the tax-free  cash. This is a failure  
Ref: DRN13563245to meet  the COB requirement to clearly demonstrate why a transfer was in the customers  
best interest.
To put the primary source of retirement  provision at such risk of being  severely  diminished,  
youd expect a very compelling reason for taking  the tax-free cash  and in doing  so retiring  
at 50. Yet reading the advisers  recommendation, the wording suggests the plan to take 
benefits at 50 was pretty loose. The adviser says in regards to retiring  at 50, your pension  at 
this stage will also need to be taken, but dependent on your circumstances various  options  
are available and we can discuss this nearer to your proposed retirement  , You will 
probably retire at 50, however as it is your intention to retire earlier than 63 and possibly 
as young as 50. It doesnt sound like the need or want to retire  at 50 is a definitive plan. And 
as I said no analysis was carried out as to why Mr D wished to risk his future pension 
benefits in favour of taking a tax-free  cash lump sum at 50. 
The adviser recommended transferring to a Section  32 to keep the maximum tax-free cash  
figure and to take benefits at 50. She said that the critical yield for this was 5.9% and classed 
this as acceptable. The latest discount rates published from the time had a rate of 6% for 
those three  years from retirement.
But given Mr Ds attitude to risk and there only being three years until the suggested 
retirement age of 50  I dont think this was suitable advice even if a genuine need to retire 
at age 50 and take tax-free cash had been established. The critical yield was too high to 
justify that there was a likely advantage  to transfer across those three years.  And more 
importantly there was no need to transfer then at age 47 (to take benefits  at 50), when  Mr D 
couldve stayed within the OPS and made that decision at a later date. 
If hed not transferred and been advised to wait until age 50 and he then changed his mind  
and no longer required tax-free  cash, his benefits  within the OPS would still have been 
secured. By transferring,  the investment risk taken on couldnt  be reversed (and guaranteed 
benefits lost) and the critical yield to normal retirement was very high. Transferring at 47 
locked in a critical yield of over 9% if Mr D chose  to wait until normal retirement age. And if 
he wish to take tax-free cash at 50 he still required 5.9% a year for three years just to match  
what hed given up. Looking at returns at the time I think the likelihood of him exceeding his 
benefits from the OPS  in that time were low. And thats not to mention Mr D was also 
advised to invest  in a with-profits fund which when  he came  to take his benefits would bring 
about an early vesting charge.
Another reason  Morgans  Ltd recommended the transfer was the death benefits  available 
outside the OPS.  After  the transfer, a lump sum would be payable  to his beneficiaries,  rather 
than in the form of dependants pensions from the scheme.  But there are two issues here  
the first is that, Mr D had no particular  health  issues which would mean that death benefits 
for a 47 year old were  of concern at that point.  And the advice was to crystallise his benefits  
at age 50, therefore the potential death  benefits advantages could end then. So in essence 
this benefit was only for three years  and very unlikely to be a key concern for Mr D given he 
was in good health and only 47 years old. Furthermore, a 50% spouses pension benefit  was 
of value itself, yet no recognition of this was given. I very much  doubt that Mr D wished to 
transfer due to his concern of dying  in the next three years  and that a lump sum was that 
much more beneficial  than the 50% spouses  pension in that time. Especially when there 
was a good chance the transfer was at the expense of his future pension benefits.  
Ref: DRN13563246The death  benefits were presented as an advantage of transferring without proper analysis 
of Mr Ds actual circumstances or needs and requirements. This is another  failure of the 
requirements under COB.
Another justification of transferring was the increased flexibility available upon  transfer  in 
terms of retirement benefits.  This wasnt explained in any detail. But in actual  fact, in 
transferring at age 47 and before  any pension  benefits could be taken, this course  of action 
reduced Mr Ds options  and flexibility. I say this because in transferring, the guaranteed 
benefit options within the OPS disappeared.  The additional flexibility  outside the OPS  could 
be accessed by transfer at any-time  in the future and when required at retirement.  This is 
further evidence  that the adviser  didnt  present  a balanced picture to Mr D and failed in her 
requirements under COB.
More evidence of the unbalanced  poorly presented advice was the advisers  suggestion that 
a reason to transfer was the low transfer  value offered by the scheme.  There was no 
evidence presented that the benefits  within  the scheme were at risk. Therefore a low transfer 
value supports staying  in the OPS rather than transferring. Yet this was presented as a 
reason to transfer without a balanced explanation  of this point.
When Mr D reached  aged  50, another meeting occurred and advice was given to transfer Mr 
D from his Section 32 to Income Drawdown and to take his tax free cash. However, again 
the adviser didnt  establish why the tax-free  cash was required.  And in recommending a 
transfer away from the Section 32, Mr Ds protected tax-free cash  was lost  meaning a 
reduction in maximum tax-free  cash of over £15,000. The adviser didnt  make  mention of this 
loss anywhere in her recommendation.  Considering the recommendation was based on Mr 
Ds need for tax-free cash, this is a huge failing in giving suitable advice. And the fact that Mr 
D accepted this advice I think shows how reliant he was on the adviser. Had he known hed 
lose such a large amount  in tax-free  cash I think its very unlikely he wouldve wanted to go 
ahead with the recommendation.
Mr D has since  told us that in 2004, he was looking at various options to finance buying a 
caravan and a new car. He says he had other  options as he was on good money for the time 
(approx £23,000), hed paid off his mortgage  and he had no dependent children  but that the 
adviser persuaded him to finance it using his pension.
The advice in 2002 and follow up advice in 2004  to significantly reduce Mr Ds pension at 
retirement was all based on the need for tax-free cash. But this need never looks to have 
been discussed or challenged. Why did he need it? Mr D says to buy a caravan and a car 
but given his circumstances at the time I think this couldve been financed  in other ways. 
Had this been  challenged  and discussed,  I doubt  Mr D wouldve given up his guaranteed 
benefits and main pension provision for something that likely couldve been paid for in other 
ways.
After considering the available evidence, there is no doubt that Mr D was completely reliant 
upon the adviser for his decision  making. And that the advice he was given was poorly 
considered with multiple failings under COB  and unsuitable for Mr D.
Morgans Ltds main  defence of the transfer now is that Mr D was compliant  in it and he has 
had the enjoyment  of the new car and caravan. But this is not a reasonable defence . Mr D 
paid the advisor  for expert advice, not just as someone to manage a pension transfer. That 
expert advice was severely  lacking and had Mr D received that competent  advice I think  he 
wouldve accepted  that a transfer was not in his best interests and understood his 
Ref: DRN13563247guaranteed benefits at retirement  were valuable. I therefore conclude that Mr D wouldve but 
for the poor advice, remained within his OPS.
What does Morgans  Ltd need to do?
My aim to is put Mr D, as closely as possible,  into the position  hed be but for Morgans Ltds 
unsuitable advice  to transfer out of his OPS.  Reinstatement of Mr Ds deferred benefits  isnt 
possible. Therefore,  Morgans Ltd should undertake  a redress calculation in line with the 
most up to date pension  review methodology as amended by the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Morgans Ltd must therefore undertake a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:  Guidance for firms on how to calculate  
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance  of the decision.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The compensation amount must  where  possible be paid to Mr D within  90 days  of the date 
Morgans Ltd receives  notification  of his acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest  
must be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 90 days, that it takes 
Morgans Ltd to pay Mr D.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000 I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
determination and money award: I require Morgans Ltd to pay Mr D the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above,  up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Morgans 
Ltd to pay Mr D any interest on that amount  in full, as set out above.
Ref: DRN13563248Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I only require Morgans Ltd to 
pay Mr D any interest  as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend  that 
Morgans Ltd pays Mr D the balance. I additionally  recommend any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance  to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts my decision, the money award  is binding on Morgans Ltd. My 
recommendation is not binding on Morgans Ltd. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept  
my decision  and go to court to ask for the balance.  Mr D may want  to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Morgans Ltd and upon 
Mr Ds acceptance, I require it to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2021.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1356324