K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has a Homecare Agreement cover  which is a boiler policy.  Mrs D is unhappy with the 
way British Gas Insurance Limited  handled a claim on her policy.
background
My references to British  Gas include its engineers,  and others,  it appointed  to handle this 
claim.
Mrs Ds Homecare plan covers her tenanted property. It includes an annual  service, boiler 
repair, central heating  system, plumbing and drains,  and home  electrics  cover.  
Mrs D made  a claim under her policy towards  the end of September 2018, because shed 
been told there was a water leak. British Gas sent a central heating engineer in 
October 2018, but he couldnt find a leak. They agreed to monitor the situation.
As the leak continued,  Mrs D contacted British Gas again. Although it arranged to send an 
engineer, it failed to attend three  times. British Gas acknowledged this and offered £30 for 
the poor service  and a subsequent appointment was made  but again no one came.
After Mrs D chased the matter several times, British Gas attended and said the issue was 
with the shower.  Mrs D wasnt confident in the diagnosis as her tenant hadnt used the 
shower for over a week. Mrs D asked for a senior plumber to attend for a second opinion.
Keen to resolve  the issue Mrs Ds son in law opened the ceiling, and made a hole in the wall, 
to find the leak.  A British  Gas engineer subsequently attended and said the shower  cartridge 
was cracked which was causing  the leak. British Gas said that the problems with the shower 
werent covered  under  the policy, but it would fix the problem on the basis  that any repairs 
carried out would be paid by Mrs D. British Gas couldnt source  the repair part, so Mrs D 
arranged to source the part herself.
Mrs D bought the part and took it to her property,  but British  Gas said it couldnt provide her 
a plumber. She called  several times  but then arranged for a private plumber to attend.  The 
plumber diagnosed the fault as being with the washer, in the tap in the shower, and not the 
shower cartridge. He resolved the issue within five minutes. 
Mrs D complained and asked British Gas to reimburse her for:
the fuel costs she incurred travelling to and from the property
the cost of the shower cartridge part she didnt need
one weeks rent, refunded to her tenant,  as he was unable to live in the property
compensation for the repairs to the ceiling, wall and replacement  washer
This totalled £1105.54. Mrs D also explained  how her husband was going through significant  
medical treatment, during  the claim, and British Gas added  to the stress she was already 
experiencing.
British Gas offered  to pay £300 which included the cost of repairs  and parts,  as well as the 
inconvenience caused to Mrs D. Although British Gas offered to refund the cost of repairing 
the wall, they said they wouldnt cover the cost of the ceiling as this was already  damaged.  
Ref: DRN12417492After Mrs D referred her complaint to our service,  British Gas raised an objection to our 
service considering the case. It said when the engineer diagnosed the leak, as coming from 
the shower, it wasnt covered under the policy and any subsequent repairs were  chargeable. 
As Mrs D agreed to pay, it said her complaint was about the delays in carrying out this 
chargeable work, which wasnt an insurance product. They said her complaint  should be 
referred to the Utilities ADR.
What our investigator thought
Our investigator said the repair  wasnt covered  under the policy  because  the policy terms 
excluded the shower  and all the parts connected to it. Whilst Mrs D said the washer was 
connected to the pipes  and not the shower, the investigator disagreed.  He thought  the 
shower wouldnt work properly without the washer, so he felt the washer formed  part of the 
shower. For those reasons, he thought  it was excluded  from the policy and the repairs 
werent covered.
He also said he couldnt consider anything  that happened after British  Gas confirmed the 
repairs werent covered  by Mrs Ds policy, and when she agreed to pay for any further work 
needed.
Finally he felt £300 was a fair amount to reflect the poor service Mrs D received from when 
British Gas was first notified of the claim, until the point  they confirmed the claim wasnt  
covered under the policy.
Mrs D asked for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman.  She said the offer of £300  
wasnt enough for the poor service she received. She also said the repairs should be 
covered under her policy because she felt the washer was connected to the pipe and not the 
shower itself.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has two main  issues.  She believes the repairs should  be included  as part of her policy 
and that she should be compensated reasonably for the poor service she received from 
British Gas.
In terms of whether  the repairs were covered under her policy,  Mrs Ds policy wording  says 
the following  under  whats  not covered:
We dont repair or replace showers and their parts, shower pumps,  sanitary ware and 
sealant
I appreciate what Mrs D has said regarding  the washer and why she feels its connected to 
the water  pipes and not the shower itself. The shower wouldnt function effectively if the 
washer connected to the pipe and shower wasnt there, so I think its reasonable to say that 
the washer is actually  connected to the shower. So under Mrs Ds policy cover,  under terms, 
Im satisfied that the washer would be considered as shower and their parts  and it would be 
excluded from the policy.
Ref: DRN12417493I also appreciate what Mrs D has said about  how British Gas shouldve realised earlier that 
the issue was specifically with the washer  in the tap. Because had this been done, she feels 
it wouldve  mitigated  some of the work  carried  out to the property.
However, I can see that British Gas sent two engineers who both said that the issue was 
with the shower  when  they came to visit on 24 and 26 October.  I can fully understand why 
Mrs D involved  her son in law to try and resolve the issue. But, as the initial  engineer had 
already said the issue was with the shower, which was prior to Mrs D having any work 
carried out, Im satisfied that there  was a strong  possibility that any work undertaken 
wouldnt be covered  based on the exclusions of her policy.
Even when  Mrs D said she wasnt  confident with the initial  engineers diagnosis, British Gas 
agreed to send a second engineer, who also confirmed  the issue was with the shower. So 
whilst in the end the independent  plumber fixed the issue, specifically with the washer, this 
was still in relation  to the shower  which wasnt covered under the policy. And even if this was 
discovered earlier, it wouldnt have  been covered in any event under the terms of her policy.
In terms of service, I agree there  have  been several  service issues, and Mrs D suffered a lot 
of trouble and upset,  particularly in view of her husbands ill health. 
I can see initially British Gas realised  it made  mistakes with the missed  appointments, and 
gave Mrs D £30. British  Gas subsequently  agreed  to pay a further  £300,  some of which 
included work for the repairs carried out by Mrs D. So in total, it provided Mrs D with an offer 
of £330.
However given that I dont  consider  the repairs were part of her policy,  Ive had to consider if 
£330 is a reasonable amount, for the poor service  she received overall, excluding any work 
carried out as she wasnt covered for this in the first place.
Having considered all the evidence, and how British Gas handled Mrs Ds claim,  I remain  of 
the view that £330  is appropriate  in the circumstances to compensate her for the fuel, 
missed appointments  and general  poor service she received from British Gas.
Had British Gas not made this offer, I wouldve asked  it to make a payment around that 
region for the poor service Mrs D received.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that the total compensation offered by
British Gas Insurance Limited is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
 
As British Gas Insurance  Limited has already paid £30, it should  now make  the remaining 
payment of £300  to Mrs D.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019 .
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1241749