K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Shawbrook Bank  Limited (Shawbrook) have refused to uphold  a claim 
he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain why. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed  sum 
loan, it might be possible to recover the money paid through  a section 75 claim. This section  
of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances,  a finance provider can 
be responsible  for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation  made by the supplier. 
s75 Consumer Credit  Act (1974)
Section 75 is a little technical. It was established  as it was understood that the legal right a 
consumer has against a merchant may not be enough protection for them.  So, section 75 
established a liability on the provider of credit as it was believed  they would have more  
leverage over the merchant to resolve  the issue and would, in any case, be less inhibited by 
the expense of suing the merchant.
But for the creditor, Shawbrook in this case, to have that liability  there needs to have been a 
breach of contract.
Here, there appears no dispute about  the quality of the will as theres no dispute  there  are 
spelling mistakes in it that will need  to be rectified. 
But Mr R also says he was promised a home  visit to explain the technical terms of the will 
hed bought. He says this promise was made during  a phone call but Shawbrook say that 
theres no evidence  this promise was ever made,  and that the supplier doesnt usually 
supply a visit.
Im persuaded, on balance, that there was an agreement for Mr R to have  the technical 
issues explained to him. I say that because:
its a service that the supplier has accepted it does, on occasion, supply.
Ref: DRN16575852phone  records have  not been provided to counter  Mr Rs version of what  he was told 
on the phone. Its clear these phone records once existed as the supplier told 
Shawbrook theyd  listened to them and had noted  Mr R had been told otherwise. I 
think the fact the records have not been provided supports Mr Rs view that he was 
promised a home visit.
It seems  to make little sense  for Mr R to complain about  the lack of a service  if it 
wasnt promised to him. So that, and the evidence Ive listed above, leads me to 
consider that its most likely he was promised a home visit.
I would agree that the best way to resolve  the issue would be for Mr R to obtain  three  quotes  
for a legal advisor to explain the will to him. Shawbrook may then select  the most  cost 
effective. This may, due to the current pandemic, prove difficult  to organise at Mr Rs 
property and he may wish to organise a telephone  or video conference  instead  with 
Shawbrook covering the bill.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Shawbrook  Bank Limited  to 
pay for a legal advisor to explain the technical details in the will Mr R paid for. This will be on 
the provision of three quotes for the work from Mr R.
Shawbrook should  also ensure that any spelling mistakes in the will are rectified.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1657585