K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) arranged  repairs on his 
vehicle that were substandard, along with causing undue delay when deciding the liability of 
a claim he made on his motor insurance policy. 
background
On 17 August 2018, Mr B was involved in a collision while  in Denmark. He wanted to make  a 
claim for the damages his car sustained,  so he called RSA on 20 August  2018 to notify it of 
his loss. 
During this call, Mr B gave RSA a host of information about  the incident,  including the 
location and time of it and the third-partys details. RSA accepted the claim and began the 
process of arranging the repairs of Mr Bs vehicle. Because the incident happened  outside of 
the UK, RSA contacted the Motor Insurance Bureau  (MIB) in order to find the third-party 
insurers details. It intended to exchange  information  with the UK representative of this 
foreign insurer, so a decision  could be made on which driver was at fault.
Mr B was unhappy with the repairs that had taken place on his car, so he raised a formal 
complaint citing that they were substandard. He claimed that the garage RSA had employed  
to conduct the repairs  had actually  caused further  damage, that wasnt present immediately 
after the incident. RSA apologised and in early 2019  offered £100 compensation for this, 
along with rectifying  the repairs to a satisfactory standard. 
Aside from the repairs, RSA contacted Mr B in late September 2018 asking for information.  It 
explained that it needed details of the third-party driver, specifically their vehicle registration. 
Mr B was unhappy about this, because hed already given RSA this information when he first 
notified it of the incident  in August 2018.  He thought  that this had unnecessarily  delayed the 
decision on the liability of the claim. 
Following this, RSA sent a letter  to the MIB in October 2018  with the third-party  registration  
details. It asked for the necessary contact information of the third-party insurer,  so it could  
open up communications and work  out the liability of the claim,  along with the recovery of 
costs. Shortly  afterwards,  RSA apologised to Mr B as it accepted  that it had caused an 
undue delay and offered  him £50 compensation to put this right.  
On 3 December  2018, RSA sent Mr B its final response to the complaint. It maintained  that it 
thought £50 compensation was reasonable for the delays caused in deciding  liability.  
Then, in the middle of February  2019, RSA emailed the MIB for an update because  it was 
yet to receive the details of the UK representative of the third-party insurer.  The MIB 
responded by letter  on 14 February  2019, pointing out that RSA needed to provide the 
location and date of the incident before it could trace this information.  RSA gave these 
details in a letter dated 19 February  2019. The next day, RSA wrote  to Mr B to tell him that it 
had now provided  all of the details that the MIB had requested and it was awaiting its 
response. 
Ref: DRN14525612However, RSA then realised that it hadnt asked  Mr B to provide a detailed  account of the 
incident. It sent him a letter at the end of February 2019, asking him to provide a statement 
along with a sketch of what happened and any other factors  that he thought  might  be 
important to the liability of the claim.  
Mr B provided this information,  but was unhappy  about doing so because  it had been over 
five months since the incident took place.  He was also in the process  of relocating to a 
different country,  which meant he was extremely busy and it was already a stressful  time. 
Again, he thought it unfair that it had taken RSA this long to get the information needed to 
decide the liability of the claim. 
So, in April 2019,  Mr B brought  his complaint to our service and one of our investigators 
looked into it. During the course of her investigation,  RSA sent a letter  to Mr B assuring him 
that the MIB now had what  was needed  to trace the third-party insurers  details. 
Our investigator took account of this, along  with the other evidence  relevant to the complaint. 
She didnt  see the need to comment on the quality of repairs conducted on the vehicle, as 
Mr B informed our service  that this element to the complaint had been resolved. In terms of 
the delays caused, she thought that RSA should  increase  its offer of compensation from £50 
to £250. 
Mr B accepted this  but RSA disagreed. It said that the compensation was too high, as 
claims that occur while driving  abroad  generally take longer  to decide. Overall,  it thought  
£250 wasnt reasonable in the circumstances. 
Because RSA disagreed, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Where Mr B is satisfied with the repairs that have now been conducted and the 
compensation offered, I dont need to comment on this element of the complaint. 
RSA has confirmed that the liability  of the claim has now been decided,  with it being agreed 
that Mr B was not at fault for the incident. Mr B agrees with this decision and, as things 
stand, I understand  that RSA is attempting to recover its costs  from the third-party insurer. 
Once recovered, it will update the recording of the claim accordingly,  i.e. that Mr B made a 
claim and wasnt at fault. 
Therefore, whats left for me to determine is an appropriate amount of compensation to 
reflect the avoidable delays that occurred in reaching this point.  When deciding this, Ive 
taken into account  that Mr Bs car was repaired  (albeit unsatisfactorily at first) shortly after he 
raised the claim. As mentioned, this part of the complaint isnt in dispute.  
Nevertheless, its important to distinguish that the delays RSA caused were only in respect 
of the decision  on the liability of the claim  not the completion of repairs being claimed for. 
With this in mind, Ive thought carefully about what would constitute  fair compensation for   
Mr B. 
Ref: DRN14525613Claims involving an incident that occurred while driving abroad can be subject to the 
4th EU Motor Insurance Directive (2000/26/EC). This gives  injured parties a direct  right of 
action against  the insurer of the responsible party; and the ability to settle claims in their 
home state through the respondent insurers representative. 
Mr B was eligible under this directive,  so RSA was able to approach  the MIB in its role as the 
UK Information Centre. RSA looked to the MIB to provide details of the third-party insurance 
company, as this insurer is based  in a foreign country and therefore RSA attempted  to 
contact its UK Representative. Im satisfied  that RSA did contact the MIB, with the intention 
of settling Mr Bs claim by corresponding with the representative of the third-party insurer.  
This process  differs from a claim originating from an incident within the UK, between,  for 
example, RSA (as a UK-based  insurer)  and another UK insurer. I say this because, it 
involves RSA contacting the MIB and then reaching  out to another party thats  appointed  to 
handle claims on behalf of the foreign insurer  which isnt necessary during a UK-based 
claim. Therefore, a claim such as this can unavoidably result  in additional time being needed 
to decide liability.   
In light of the need to contact additional  parties, I acknowledge RSAs argument  that these 
types of claims can generally take longer. Also, I take into consideration that despite RSAs  
best endeavours, the swiftness of deciding  liability  was not entirely within its control.  That is 
to say that, even  if RSA were to act quicker  than it did here  it would always  need  to rely on 
the MIB and another party to settle  Mr Bs claim. RSA is responsible for how quickly it acts 
on and exchanges  information. However, in my opinion, it shouldnt be held liable  for the 
response times of separate entities, such as the MIB or the appointed representatives of the 
third-party insurer. 
For this reason, I cannot safely conclude that RSA is solely  responsible for the liability of    
Mr Bs claim being decided at the time that it was. Its therefore my judgment that I cannot 
fairly decide upon a point in time that the liability ought to have been decided  by. It follows  
that, I dont  require RSA to cover the cost of any additional premium  that Mr B has paid while  
this claim was ongoing i.e. either when renewing  his insurance policy with RSA or applying 
to be insured by an alternative provider. 
That being  said,  its not in dispute  that Mr B gave RSA the majority,  if not all of the necessary 
information relating  to the incident  when he first submitted the claim in August 2018. 
According to the MIB, the details of a foreign  insurer and its UK representatives can be 
obtained by providing the third-partys registration number and country of registration. Mr B 
submitted this to RSA in August 2018, by providing  a host of information about the          
third-party driver, including the name  of their insurer. But RSA then contacted him some four 
weeks later to ask for this same information.
Ref: DRN14525614Being asked to provide a detailed account  of what happened and to draw a sketch  to 
illustrate this is common when assessing motor  insurance claims.  Indeed,  based on my 
experience, all of the information that the MIB asked RSA to provide is commonplace  in the 
industry. The location, time and third-party  details  are all fundamental to working out what 
happened and who was responsible. Ideally, this should be requested  sooner rather  than 
later, to aid the accuracy of the account being  provided. 
However, RSA asked for some of this information  a number of months after the incident. I 
can appreciate Mr Bs frustration with this, as throughout the claims process,  he has 
engaged with RSA and stressed his need for the liability  of the claim to be decided as soon 
as possible. 
In the circumstances, I understand why Mr B is unhappy about being asked to repeat 
information, especially  at an already  stressful time while moving.  There are plausible 
reasons why he would want  the decision on liability decided  at the earliest  opportunity. 
Having a claim thats left open without liability decided can be of detriment to a policyholder. 
An open claim is automatically  regarded as a fault claim  and usually remains  as such 
until the insurer fully recovers  from the third-party. And a fault claim can cause a renewal 
premium to be more expensive, because insurers may interpret an applicant with fault claims 
as being a higher risk. 
So, its true that RSA required a degree of cooperation from the appointed representatives of 
the third-party insurer and a timely  response  from the MIB. However, overall, Im not 
persuaded that its provided a sufficient  enough argument for why it didnt ask for the 
necessary information  earlier than it did. Because,  had it acted  quicker, it strikes me that the 
decision on liability could have been made  at an earlier point in time.
As the regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets the regulatory obligations that 
insurers, such as RSA,  must follow. The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) forms part of the FCA Handbook . According to ICOBS, an insurer  must  handle 
claims promptly and fairly  (ICOBS 8.1). 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not satisfied that RSA did handle  this claim promptly  
and fairly.  Im persuaded  that this had an impact  on Mr B, causing him distress  and 
inconvenience. 
In view of this, I conclude  that a total of £250 is fair and reasonable compensation. This is 
within the parameters  of what we normally award for moderate distress  and inconvenience,  
so is clearly not too high for the impact of this type of failing. 
Ref: DRN14525615my final decision
My final decision is to uphold the complaint.
I understand that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has already paid Mr B £100 
compensation for the problems encountered  with the repairs  of his vehicle.  Separate to this, 
I understand that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has offered £50 compensation for the 
delays element of the complaint. 
For the reasons  set out above, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to pay Mr B a 
total of £250 as compensation  for the delays caused  in addition to the £100 its already 
paid in compensation for the repairs.
So Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc should  award Mr B a total of £250 in compensation 
for the delays, within 28 days  of receiving notice from us of his acceptance  of this decision, 
failing which interest  will start to accrue on this sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year (less any 
tax properly deductible) until the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Matthew Belcher 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1452561