K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Although Marks & Spencer sold the PPI to Mrs B, the insurers,  Allianz Insurance Plc 
(Allianz) have accepted responsibility for the sale. So Ill just refer to Allianz in this decision.
background
Mrs B bought the policy in 1998  at the same time as she applied for a Marks & Spencer 
card. This would have covered her if she was off work because  of accident, sickness  or if 
she lost her job. The policy would  have cost 64p for every £100  of Mrs Bs outstanding 
monthly balance. On making a successful claim it would have paid out 15% of that balance 
until she returned to work  or the balance  was paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
And having done all of that, Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold. I realise  this will be 
disappointing for Mrs B. But I hope she will understand  and accept why Ive come to this 
decision.
Mrs B has said she didnt  opt for PPI.  Allianz has provided us with a copy of Mrs Bs 
account application form. And having looked  at it the section on PPI did present her with a 
choice to make as I cant see anything in that section or elsewhere on the form to suggest  
she had to take such cover  if she didnt want PPI it didnt have to be selected. And as PPI 
has been selected and Mrs B has signed  the application, Im satisfied this indicates she 
wanted the cover. 
Mrs B has said while  it is her signature on the application, she didnt complete the form or 
tick for PPI as it is not her handwriting. I accept its possible  that someone in store  could 
have helped to fill in the application however Mrs B was agreeing  to an important financial 
commitment, so I would  have expected  her to have looked over the form before signing in 
agreement with the information on it. So overall  I think Allianz made  it clear  that Mrs B didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she may not remember this now considering the sale took place over 20 years  ago. 
I dont think Mrs B would  have received advice about the PPI. So as Allianz didnt 
recommend it to Mrs B it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it still needed to give 
Mrs B enough information to allow  her to make an informed decision about whether  or not to 
buy the policy. 
Ref: DRN10955222Its possible not all the information Allianz  gave to Mrs B was as clear  as it should have 
been. But even  if she had been  given  clearer  or better information I still think  she would have 
bought the cover. 
I say this because  Mrs B was eligible for the policy. And it doesnt  seem she would have 
been affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  of the policy  which might have made it 
more difficult to make a successful claim, such as unusual employment  circumstances  or a 
pre-existing medical condition. 
 
Mrs B says she would  have some sick pay from her job but cant  remember what her exact 
entitlement was. As Allianz  didnt recommend the policy it didnt have to check it was right for 
her circumstances. It would have been  Mrs Bs decision to make  to add the policy  taking in 
to account her other means. 
And when  Ive considered her circumstances, the policy would have paid out in addition to 
her sick pay. And it would have paid out until Mrs Bs outstanding balance at the time of the 
claim was repaid, or until she went back to work. So I think  the policy could  have been  useful  
to her if things went wrong.   
I also think the cover was affordable. So I cant see that clearer  information about the costs 
and benefit would have put Mrs B off taking  the policy.
So overall I dont  think better information  would have changed Mrs Bs mind about  the PPI. 
And I dont  think she lost out because of anything Allianz did wrong. So I dont think it needs 
to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1095522