K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about advice  given by HDIFA (then part of Berkshire  Financial
Advisers Limited) to transfer the value of his deferred benefits in a former employers
occupational pension scheme  and a personal pension to a self invested  personal pension
(SIPP) to invest in an unregulated investment.
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Limited (Meyado) is now responsible  for the
advice HDIFA gave.
background
Ive considered Mr Ts complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 28 October 2020. 
Ive summarised the findings I reached  below.  But Ill first recap  the facts and how our 
investigation has progressed. 
Mr T had deferred benefits in a former  employers  final salary  pension scheme. He was 
referred to a firm Ill call Firm A (an appointed  representative of a regulated  firm) by an 
unregulated introducer. Firm A didnt have the necessary permissions to advise on final 
salary pension transfers. So Mr T was referred  to HDIFA. 
In January 2012, following  advice  from HDIFA, Mr T transferred £20,130.20 from his
personal pension  to SIPP. And on 15 March  2012 £16,061.50  was invested in carbon  
credits. On 1 May 2012 a transfer value  of £12,158 was paid from Mr Ts former employers
scheme. And on 30 May 2012 Mr T invested  a further £10,998  in carbon credits.
In March 2016 Mr T complained to Meyado that hed been given unsuitable advice. Meyado
rejected his complaint. Mr T referred  his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. In summary  he said Mr Ts former employers scheme 
had valuable  guaranteed  benefits. The impact of the SIPP  charges  on the critical yield hadnt  
been fully explained. The suitability report recommended leaving funds in cash  until an 
investment objective  had been decided. But, with no investment recommendation, HDIFA 
couldnt be satisfied  the transfer was suitable. The carbon  credits  investment had inherent 
liquidity risks and wouldnt  be suitable  for most  retail  investors. There was no evidence  that 
Mr T was made aware of the risks in transferring his pension to a SIPP to invest in an 
unregulated product. He had no previous experience of higher risk investments and didnt 
have the capacity to incur  a total loss of all his pensions.
Meyado didnt agree that the complaint should be upheld. It said the adjudicators reasoning  
and conclusions were  flawed. Mr T had said hed been advised by someone Ill call Mr C. 
Wed not made proper  enquiries into Mr Cs involvement. And Firm A was involved before 
HDIFA. Mr T had made his investment decision either prior to or following HDIFAs 
involvement. HDIFA had justifiably relied  on the pension review  questionnaire Mr T signed.  It 
confirmed his high degree of investment knowledge,  that hed accept high volatility and that 
he was an adventurous/speculative investor.  And that the fund was to be held in cash  with 
Firm A to provide investment advice. HDIFAs involvement had ceased in January 2012 
when the SIPP was set up. The carbon  credits  investment was made later.  HDIFA wasnt 
aware Mr T intended to invest in carbon  credits.  A Dubai property fund had been mentioned.
Meyado also said that we hadnt properly investigated Firm As involvement or obtained 
documentation from Firm A. HDIFA was simply arranging the transfer (because Firm A didnt 
Ref: DRN14358002have the relevant permissions) and had made  it clear it wouldnt be advising on the 
underlying investment. It wasnt fair and reasonable (but irrational) to hold HDIFA 100% 
liable for the fact that, on another partys  advice, the sums transferred were then invested  in 
carbon credits.  Meyado  didnt argue that transferring Mr Ts accrued benefits to invest in 
carbon credits was appropriate. But, properly viewed, HDIFAs recommendation was to 
move Mr Ts benefits to a SIPP. It was the separate decision to invest  in carbon credits  
which caused the loss. 
We made some further enquiries of Mr T. We were  aware that in some cases  investors  had 
received incentive  payments.  Mr T told us that hed been introduced  to Mr C by his then
partner who Mr C was helping with a re mortgage. After Mr T had met him a few times Mr C
asked about Mr Ts pensions and reinvesting them. Mr C said SIPPs  were  new to the market
and if Mr T transferred hed get a tax free sum - 20% to 25% was mentioned. Mr T says he
was told SIPPs were  safe, growth was good and at worse he wouldnt lose what hed
transferred. Mr C then introduced Mr T to Firm A who in turn referred him to HDIFA.
 
Documents were sent to him, marked where he needed to sign.  On reading  over everything 
it all seemed in order. He was told, once the transfer was completed, the lump sum could be 
paid. He was asked for his bank details and told a different account, not his own,  should be 
used, for tax reasons. He used  his partners bank account. He cant  recall the exact amount 
but thinks it was between £4,000 and £5,000. He cant now get the details as hes no longer 
on good terms with his ex partner. Some of the money was spent on a car which cost about  
£2,500 which his ex partner kept when they split up.
Meyado had more  recently made  some  further representations about the High Courts
judgment handed down on 18 May 2020  in the case of Adams  v Options SIPP  UK LLP
(formerly Carey  Pensions UK LLP) [2020]  EWHC 1229 (Ch). The claimant in that case had 
argued that the underlying  investment had been  manifestly unsuitable and the SIPP  provider 
had a duty to advise  on the underlying investment. The claim was dismissed. The court held 
that the SIPP provider didnt owe a duty to advise  on the underlying investments and there  
was no obligation  to refuse  the claimants instructions to transfer.  Meyado argued  the 
judgment was material  to Mr Ts complaint. Meyado said it would be making further  
submissions.
In the provisional  decision  I issued on 28 October 2020 I upheld  the complaint. In brief my 
main findings were:
was HDIFAs advice  suitable?
HDIFA couldnt fulfil its regulatory duties to Mr T without considering the overall
transaction. To determine  if the transfers  to a SIPP were suitable HDIFA had to
understand what the SIPP was going  to be invested  in. 
Meyado had said that HDIFA didnt know that Mr T intended to invest  in carbon 
credits. But the referral process record dated  22 October 2011 said the introducer  
was Firm A and the reason for the transfer  was to buy a specific  investment   carbon 
credits. And, even  if HDIFA had thought the planned investment was a Dubai 
property, that would raise similar  concerns as to the unregulated nature of the 
investment. 
The regulators 18 January 2013  alert makes  it clear that HDIFA couldnt just
advise on the SIPP itself. The underlying investment  was part and parcel of the 
advice to transfer. HDIFA needed to consider its suitability too. Even if the 
introduction had come from another regulated firm and HDIFA had made it clear that 
Ref: DRN14358003it wasnt giving advice  on the underlying investment. And notwithstanding that Mr T 
had signed the investment application form to say hed not received any advice about 
the proposed  investment and the decision to invest was solely his responsibility. 
HDIFA should have  known it couldnt,  in accordance  with its regulatory obligations, 
limit its advice even if Mr T apparently accepted  advice would be given  on that basis.  
Carbon credits wasnt a suitable  investment for Mr T. On that basis the transfers  
were unsuitable  too. 
what would  suitable  advice have been?
As per COBS  19.1.6G, HDIFA should  have started by assuming the transfer of Mr 
Ts defined  benefits wouldnt be suitable.  Further examination  would have confirmed 
that.
I noted what Meyado  had said about  Mr T having signed the pension  review 
questionnaire. But I hadnt seen anything  to suggest he was really an experienced or 
knowledgeable investor. His financial circumstances were  relatively  modest. He was 
a member of his current employers pension scheme. But that didnt mean he could 
afford to take a significant level of risk with his two other pension arrangements.  
The assessment  of Mr Ts attitude  to risk  that he was an adventurous, even 
speculative investor wasnt  credible. A risk assessment completed on 12 October 
2011 suggested he was a medium or slightly higher risk investor. That apparent  
inconsistency should have been explored, including if he had the capacity for loss 
that might result  from taking an adventurous or speculative approach.  
The risks associated  with the investment were considerable. It was unregulated. I 
referred to what the regulator had said about  that type of investment  that it was 
high risk and unlikely to be suitable  for the vast majority of consumers. And then 
usually only for a proportion of an investors funds. Here virtually  all of Mr Ts SIPP 
fund was invested in carbon credits. He didnt have the capacity for loss that could  
result and should have been  advised against transferring and investing any of his 
pension funds in carbon credits. 
Meyado didnt argue that its advice  was suitable.  Its position  was that, due to the 
involvement of others, it isnt fair and reasonable to hold it responsible for Mr Ts 
losses in full. It could  be argued that Mr Ts losses stemmed  mainly from the failure of 
the investment.  And, given the funds transferred were initially  held in cash, no loss 
had resulted by the time HDIFAs  role ceased. But HDIFA  knew  that, ultimately,  the 
proposed investment  was in carbon credits. The money was only available to invest 
because HDIFA had recommended the transfers  and facilitated  them.
other parties  involvement
I referred to DISP 3.6.1R. It requires  me to determine a complaint by reference to
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. 
I also referred to DISP 3.5.2R, DISP  3.5.3R and DISP 3.6.3G. I agreed  the 
involvement of other parties is a relevant factor. But a conclusion that, despite the 
involvement of other (regulated) entities, the complaint should  be upheld against  the 
party complained about and that party should meet the consumers losses in full, 
wont necessarily be unfair or unreasonable.
I could understand  why Meyado  argued  that Mr Ts losses  arose from the 
investments and not the transfers or the SIPP itself. But if the transfers hadnt 
happened and the SIPP hadnt  been set up, Mr T wouldnt  have  been  in a position  to 
make the carbon  credits investments. On that basis HDIFAs role was instrumental. 
Ref: DRN14358004Firm A had introduced Mr T to HDIFA. It was possible that Firm A had given  advice 
about the carbon credits investment, although  from what Id seen it hadnt. Mr C was 
also involved and he may have given (unregulated and so unlawful) advice, whether 
about a property investment in Dubai or carbon credits.  But theres no dispute  that 
HDIFA did give advice. HDIFA thought it could limit its advice to the transfer and the 
SIPP. But, as Ive explained, its understanding was wrong:  HDIFA needed consider 
the proposed  investment too.
Even if Firm A (or indeed Mr C ) had advised  Mr T, and in the strongest possible 
terms, to invest  in carbon  credits,  my decision would  have been the same.  Mr T had 
deferred benefits in a former employers defined benefit scheme. Firm A wasnt  
competent to advise  on transferring  those  benefits and didnt have the necessary 
regulatory permissions. Firm A had to refer the matter  to HDIFA. 
HDIFA had the requisite permissions, expertise and responsibility to advise Mr T 
properly on the overall transaction. Its role was pivotal, since the eventual  investment 
was wholly contingent on the transfer  taking place.  HDIFAs advice that Mr T should  
transfer to a SIPP so that he could invest in a high risk, unregulated,  illiquid 
investment was unsuitable. But for the transfer  Mr T couldnt have invested as he did.
My starting point as to causation was that HDIFA advised Mr T to transfer.  So it was 
responsible for the losses he suffered in transferring to the SIPP and investing in 
carbon credits.  That isnt wrong  in law or irrational but reflects  the facts of the case  
and HDIFAs pivotal  part in the matter. HDIFA could have  prevented  the investment. 
Instead it facilitated it, having given  unsuitable  advice that Mr T transfer. Mr T was 
only able to invest in carbon credits because HDIFAs  unsuitable advice unlocked  the 
money from his former employers pension scheme  and his personal pension 
scheme. The transfers themselves were unsuitable - and Meyado hadnt argued 
otherwise.
If Meyado considered  that others had some responsibility in the matter it was 
presumably open to Meyado to pursue those other parties.  I didnt think  Mr T would 
object, if Meyado met his losses in full, to assigning his rights to Meyado.
what would  Mr T have  done if HDIFA had given him suitable advice?
Wed seen that in other cases substantial incentive payments were  made  in return  for 
investing. Wed  asked Mr T about that. Hed confirmed he did get a payment  which
was paid into his ex partners account.  He cant now recall exactly  how much  and 
hes unable  to get information  from his ex partner.
The availability of a tax free cash lump  sum would have been attractive and a 
motivating factor  in Mr Ts decision to go ahead. But I thought  the evidence indicates  
that he transferred  and made  the carbon credits investment because  he thought hed 
get a good return which would improve his pension benefits. 
Mr T may have trusted the unregulated introducer. But, regardless of what  had gone 
on before, Mr T had to get regulated advice from a firm that had the necessary 
permissions to advise  on defined  benefit  transfers. Firm A didnt. The transaction  
the transfers and the investment  hinged on HDIFAs  advice. 
HDIFA were  the experts and had the requisite skill, experience and regulatory 
permissions to advise  on such  transfers. I thought Mr T would have placed significant 
weight on what HDIFA said. 
If HDIFA had given  suitable advice HDIFA would have advised Mr T against  
transferring from his former employers defined benefit scheme and existing personal 
pension scheme  to invest in carbon credits. HDIFA would also have made it clear 
why it was unable  to advise Mr T to transfer. HDIFA should have considered the 
investment and spelled out the risks. That would  have  countered  any overly positive 
Ref: DRN14358005views expressed by any other party. If HDIFA had done that and told Mr T it didnt 
recommend the transfers, hed have thought about whether what  he was planning 
was a good idea after all. 
I didnt see that Mr T would simply have ignored  such advice. In my view, HDIFAs 
advice would have  carried significant  weight and called into question what Mr T may 
have been told by others  about the carbon  credits investment and its potential. Hed 
explained that his aim was to improve his pension benefits. If hed been  told he might 
instead lose all the money hed invested  and HDIFA couldnt  recommend the 
transfers because  the proposed investment was too high risk and Mr T didnt have  
the capacity for loss that might  result,  I couldnt see that Mr T would have chosen  to 
go ahead  anyway.  
If HDIFA had said Mr T shouldnt  go ahead and if hed have wanted to proceed  
anyway, HDIFA would  have  needed  to have  treated him as an insistent client.  HDIFA 
may not have been willing  to act on that basis. And, even if it was, had the correct 
process been followed, that wouldve concentrated Mr Ts mind  on whether it was 
really advisable to transfer and give up the security of a defined benefits arrangement 
in favour  of benefits that were dependent on investment returns from a high risk, 
unregulated and speculative fund.
Mr T did receive an incentive payment. But he hadnt been able to produce  full details 
for the reasons hes explained.  Although hed suggested a payment of between  
£4,000 and £5,000,  in other cases wed seen  payments had been closer  to, say, 25% 
of the transfer  values.  In Mr Ts case the transfer  values totalled  £32,288.20. 25% of 
that would  have been £8,072.05.
That wasnt an insignificant amount. But I hadnt seen anything to suggest Mr T was 
in urgent need of the money (whether it was £4,000  or £5,000  or £8,000). The 
suitability report said his monthly expenditure exceeded his monthly income. But he 
hadnt disclosed his partners income  and personal  expenditure. It was possible that 
some of the shortfall was picked up by Mr Ts partner.  Theres  nothing  to indicate that 
Mr T had any debts  or other liabilities  which needed paying  urgently.
Unless Mr T could  produce further evidence  as to the actual amount that was paid I 
thought it fairest  to assume he did get a payment of 25% of the transfer  value. I set 
out what I considered  would  be fair compensation.
Meyados more recent comments
Meyado had referred to the case of Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP. Meyado  did indicate 
that it wished  to make further comments about the case. Wed  allowed Meyado ample time 
to do so. But we have to be fair to both parties. I didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable to 
proceed in the absence  of any further  detailed submissions about the case and when I didnt 
see that it was relevant.
First it relates  to a SIPP providers obligations  whereas  Mr Ts complaint is made against his 
independent financial  adviser. Secondly, the issue in the court case was the extent, if
any, of the SIPP providers  obligations in an execution only transaction.  Here  HDIFA was
providing regulated  advice. Further,  the court case involved a personal  pension 
arrangement. In the present case HDIFAs advice  was in respect of the transfer  of the value
of Mr Ts benefits in his former employers defined benefits scheme.  I didnt see there  was 
anything in the Adams v Carey judgement which was obviously relevant to the present case.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr T was happy with the provisional decision and didnt have any further  comments. 
Ref: DRN14358006Meyado did comment further. In summary,  Meyado said: 
Mr Ts decision to open a SIPP and transfer  the value of his deferred defined  benefits 
was made with assistance and/or  advice  from a number of entities, not just HDIFA. 
Id continued to ignore the other entities involvement, even though it was factually 
undeniable that Firm A (a regulated entity) and an unregulated  introducer (Mr C) 
were materially  involved. 
That wasnt fair or reasonable but irrational. Our unwillingness  to look into the 
relationship between Mr T and Firm A - which was materially involved in advising 
Mr T to invest in the illiquid investment at the heart of his complaint and (once  the 
SIPP was open) was to advise  on his planned  investments   meant  my decision was 
being made in the light of a deliberate choice to exclude relevant  matters. The 
requirement (under  the Financial  Services  and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA))  to take 
into account all the circumstances  means  the actions of other entities with whom  
Mr T interacted as part of his decision making  cant be excluded.  
Our approach suggests, where  multiple  entities (regulated or otherwise and here 
Firm A was regulated) are involved, well disregard all but the one at which the 
complaint is explicitly  directed and hold that firm accountable for all failings, 
irrespective of where liability should properly  lie. Entities are at the mercy of who a 
complainant happens  to name on the complaint  form and when many complainants  
wont have a true understanding of the roles and responsibilities of those with whom  
theyve dealt. Thats contrary to our obligations  under  FSMA and demonstrably 
unjust to one or more  parties. 
That approach  had handicapped  Meyado.  Our reluctance to examine Firm As 
involvement has meant that key documents and evidence has been unavailable to 
Meyado and us. Our enquiries have been at best incomplete and Meyados ability to 
defend itself has been seriously  impaired. 
 It had led to a fundamental error  as to causation. My decision was based on the 
premise that, without  HDIFAs involvement,  the investments  and so Mr Ts losses  
 wouldnt have  occurred. That oversimplifies  the true position and failed properly to 
take into account both Mr Ts decision to invest and that it is the investments, and 
not the SIPP, which are the primary cause of his losses.  And the decision disregards 
how Mr T held himself  out to HDIFA. 
Meyado highlighted sections of my decision.
Mr T had already decided to transfer his existing  pensions  before HDIFA was 
involved. His determination to transfer cant have been influenced by HDIFA. And, 
following the transfer, Firm A was to advise on the investment. My decision was 
irrational and relied on speculation.
The correct factual  position was that an entity  other than HDIFA was the advising 
entity. Our unwillingness to investigate other entities involvement properly or at all 
evidences irrationality  and unfairness. We hadnt properly considered  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
Id conceded  that Mr T may have received an incentive payment. He was in 
desperate need of those funds. It was unfounded speculation to dismiss the incentive 
payment to conclude  that Mr T wouldnt have proceeded in any event. Its irrational 
when the weight of evidence overwhelmingly points to the conclusion that Mr T 
wouldve proceeded with his chosen investment come what may. 
HDIFA had no involvement  in the decision  to invest in carbon credits.  Its difficult,  if 
not impossible, to say HDIFA  had knowledge of, and should  take the blame for, an 
Ref: DRN14358007investment decision  made after HDIFAs involvement ceased and when HDIFA did 
not and could not have  had any influence or control over the ultimate investments. 
It was conjecture to say, if HDIFA had advised  against transferring, Mr T wouldve 
thought again. Its at odds with the evidence as to Mr Ts determination not to heed 
warnings and ignores  the fact that he ultimately invested in a product in which HDIFA 
had no involvement.  And Id disregarded  Mr Ts assessment of his own investment 
experience and attitude to risk. 
Id referred to the regulators alert dated 18 January  2013.  But Id conceded  that dealt 
with where an adviser took on a client from an unregulated introducer, which wasnt  
HDIFAs situation. I hadnt attempted to deal with that key distinction. 
In conclusion Meyado  said my decision was unfair, unjust and irrational. Nothing 
should detract from its sympathy  for Mr T. Hed suffered loss as a result of investing 
(on the advice of others) in investments  which had failed. But my decision failed 
properly to appreciate  causation  and reliance issues.  Based on the information wed 
considered  or chosen not to consider  the decision  was unfair and unjust in 
apportioning the entire responsibility for Mr Ts losses on Meyado  and didnt meet our 
obligations under  FSMA. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive taken into account
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. And, as set out
above, Ive paid attention  to the relevant  DISP  rules. Ive also carefully considered  Meyados
comments in response  to my provisional  decision.
Generally what Meyado  has said isnt new. Meyados main point remains the involvement of 
others and in particular  Firm A and Mr C. I dont agree we havent  made  sufficient enquiries 
about that. Or that Ive misunderstood or ignored the part played  by Firm A and Mr C such  
that my decision cant properly be said to have taken into account all the circumstances of 
the case as required  by FSMA. 
The central point  is that Mr Ts existing  pension arrangements included  deferred benefits in a 
former employers final salary pension scheme. Firm A couldnt advise about that and 
referred him to HDIFA. Theres no dispute  that HDIFA  did advise Mr T to transfer to a SIPP.  
HDIFA set up the SIPP  and arranged the transfers. 
Ive acknowledged  its possible  that Firm A gave advice about the carbon credits investment. 
And (unregulated) advice may have  been given too. But theres no dispute  that HDIFA did 
give advice. HDIFA thought it could limit its advice to the transfer  and the SIPP. But, as Ive 
explained, its understanding  was wrong:  HDIFA needed consider the proposed investment 
too.
Even if Firm A (or indeed  the unregulated entity  even though it couldnt lawfully  have given
advice) had advised Mr T, and in the strongest possible  terms, to invest  in carbon credits, 
my decision  would have  been the same. Mr T had deferred benefits in a former employers 
defined benefit  scheme.  Firm A wasnt competent to advise on transferring those benefits. 
Firm A didnt have the necessary  regulatory  permissions. Firm A had to refer the matter  to 
HDIFA. 
Ref: DRN14358008Ive focused on HDIFAs own responsibilities  as the only business involved with the capacity 
to unlock the funds held in Mr Ts defined benefits  scheme. HDIFAs role was pivotal, since 
the eventual investment was wholly contingent on the transfer taking place. HDIFAs advice 
that Mr T should transfer to a SIPP so that he could invest in a high risk, unregulated, illiquid 
investment was unsuitable. But for the transfer  Mr T couldnt have invested as he did. 
I dont agree that well always  disregard the involvement of any other entities and hold the 
business at which the complaint is explicitly directly responsible  for all failings, irrespective of 
where responsibility might properly  lie. I agree that a complainant  wont  always  understand 
the different  roles  and responsibilities  where  more than one party  is involved. But here, as 
Ive explained,  it was HDIFA who gave the advice to transfer. Its role was central. I dont 
think concentrating on whether the advice  HDIFA gave  was suitable is unfair or unjust. 
Rather, and as Ive said, it reflects HDIFAs central and pivotal role in the matter.  
Meyado says our reluctance to examine Firm As involvement means that key documents  
and evidence hasnt  been made available. Ive seen some emails  between HDIFA and Firm 
A about progress of the transfer, including an email about an identification document  and a 
request for the the agent to chase  it up, which could be a reference  to the unregulated 
introducer. From what Ive seen the arrangement between  HDIFA and Firm A was that Firm 
A did some initial information gathering. And Firm A did get a fee (£500) for the introduction. 
So I can see that Firm A would have  been interested in progress of the transfer and doing  
what it could to help any transfer go smoothly. Meyado says,  following the transfer, Firm A 
was to advise  on the investment. But, as Ive made  clear, HDIFA should  have  taken into 
account the investment before that and when  it was advising on the transfer. 
I dont see that Mr T, before HDIFAs involvement, had made  a firm or irrevocable decision 
to transfer which couldnt  have been influenced by HDIFA. I dont agree it wouldnt have 
made any difference if HDIFA  had advised Mr T against  transferring.  I set out in my 
provisional decision why I thought hed have placed  weight on what  HDIFA had said.  And 
why, in practical terms, it wouldnt have been  straightforward for him to have  just disregarded 
HDIFAs advice and proceeded anyway.  I maintain, if HDIFA had advised Mr T against,  hed 
have thought again.
Meyado says it was the investment and not the transfers that caused  Mr Ts losses. But 
HDIFAs advice meant  Mr T was able to access his pension funds to make  the unsuitable 
carbon credits investment.  He didnt  have any other  funds he couldve invested.  And if 
HDIFA had said he shouldnt do it then Mr T wouldve needed to have overcome other 
hurdles to go ahead. As things stood, HDIFAs unsuitable advice made it easy for Mr T to 
proceed and didnt give him any reason  to question whether what he was planning  was 
really advisable. I dont  think thats an oversimplification. As Ive said I think  it reflects 
HDIFAs central and pivotal role. 
Meyado asserts  that Mr T was in desperate need  of the incentive payment which  Id said it 
was fair to assume  hed received. I dont doubt  that the payment would have been welcome. 
But I havent seen  anything to show that, at the time, Mr Ts financial position  was as 
Meyado suggests.  I dont  think  a finding  that Mr T wouldnt  have  proceeded if HDIFA had 
advised against and despite  the incentive  payment  is irrational. 
Meyado says HDIFA cant be blamed for any investment decision made after its involvement 
ceased and where  HDIFA didnt have  any influence or control  over the ultimate  investments. 
But HDIFA knew from the outset (see, for example, its referral  process record)  that the 
reason for the transfer was to invest in carbon credits. 
Ref: DRN14358009I note what Meyado says about Mr Ts attitude to risk. But I explained in my provisional  
decision why I didnt  think that was a credible  assessment. And that HDIFA should have 
explored with Mr T if he really wanted, and could afford, to take a very high level of risk with 
his pension provision, especially given that it seemed hed previously  been  assessed as a 
more medium risk investor.  
Meyado also says that the regulators alert deals  with the situation where an adviser takes 
on a client from an unregulated introducer,  whereas here the referral came from Firm A, a 
regulated business.  I think theres evidence that HDIFA knew an unregulated introducer  was 
involved too. But, in any event, it remains the case that it wasnt  open to HDIFA just to 
advise on the transfer  it had to consider the proposed underlying investment too. 
The regulator issued  a further alert on 28 April 2014.  Again it didnt follow  the introduction  of 
new regulations  but restated the existing position. It included the following:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer  will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch  at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
The alert went on to reiterate that suitable advice generally required consideration of the 
overall transaction, that is the vehicle and the wrapper and the expected  underlying 
investments and whether or not such investments were regulated  products.  It said,  despite 
the initial alert (in January 2013), some firms continued to adopt a model  which purportedly 
restricted advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. But advising on the suitability of a 
pension transfer  or switch  couldnt reasonably be done without considering the existing 
pension arrangement and the underlying  investments  intended to be held in the SIPP. Even  
if the introduction  came  from a regulated firm, HDIFA had to consider  the proposed 
underlying investment too. HDIFA knew that was carbon credits.  It was unsuitable for Mr T. 
On that basis the advice  to transfer  was unsuitable  too. 
All in all my views remain as previously indicated. I uphold the complaint. Meyado must 
redress Mr T as set out in my provisional decision and which  Ive repeated  here.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr T as closely as possible in the position hed probably be in now if hed 
have been given suitable advice. I think hed have retained his existing pension 
arrangements.
what Meyado should  do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, Meyado must determine the fair value of his transferred
pension benefits  as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual value  is greater
than the fair value,  no compensation is payable.
actual value
Ref: DRN143580010This means  the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation.  Wed 
usually say that Meyado should  purchase  the illiquid investment at a value acceptable  to the 
SIPP provider in order that the SIPP can be closed. But thats not necessary here as the 
SIPP has been closed  - the SIPP provider  has told us that it was closed on 14 July 2016 as 
all the investments had a nil value and there  was no cash in the cash  account. And, as the 
SIPP has been closed,  I dont need  to make any award for future SIPP fees.
But, if Meyado thinks  Mr T may receive  some value  from the carbon credits  investment in the
future, Meyado may require, if Mr T is redressed in full, that he provides an undertaking to
pay Meyado any amount  he may receive  from the investment  in the future. That undertaking
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the
pension plan. Meyado will need  to meet any costs  in drawing  up the undertaking. Similarly, if 
Meyado requires an assignment  of rights from Mr T, it will need to meet the costs involved. 
Any undertaking and/or assignment should be drafted in a clear  and simple format. 
fair value  - step one
Meyado should  undertake a redress calculation (in respect of the deferred  defined benefits
transferred) in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial
Conduct Authority  in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
Meyado may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
fair value  - step two
Meyado will also need to determine  the notional value of Mr Ts personal pension,  had he
not transferred  to the SIPP.
Mr Ts personal  pension was invested  in the providers with profits fund. That suggests a
cautious attitude to risk. But the attitude to risk assessment  completed  on 12 October  2011
indicated Mr T was a medium (or slightly higher) risk investor. On that basis  an appropriate
comparator would be the FTSE UK Private Investor  Income Total Return index.  Meyado
should use that index to work out the personal  pension transfer value would be worth as at
the date of my final decision  had it achieved a return in line with that index.
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when  they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out
of the investment should be deducted  from the fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number
of regular payments,  to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Meyado totals all those
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Ref: DRN143580011The combined  value  of the above two steps is the fair value.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ts pension  plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into a pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75%
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to
be 20%. So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects
this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment in step one must where possible be
paid within  90 days of the date Meyado receives notification  of his acceptance of my final
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in
excess of 90 days, that it takes Meyado to pay Mr T this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERFS  adjustment may mean  that the actual time
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  - and so any
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Interest at the rate of 8% per year simple is payable on the loss assessment in step two if
not paid within 28 days of Meyado being notified of Mr Ts acceptance of my final decision.
In carrying out the above  calculations, Meyado should make  an allowance  for the lump sum
Ive assumed Mr T was paid. It should  do this by applying a withdrawal of £8,072.05 from the
calculation as at the date Mr T made  the investment. As he made invested in two tranches
the mid point  date can be used. Its possible Mr T could face an unauthorised payment
charge. But whether that will be the case and, if so, what amount Mr T may have to pay is
uncertain. If required,  Meyado should give Mr T an undertaking  to meet  any unauthorised 
payment charge that he may in the future  have to pay.
In addition to the above,  Meyado  should  pay Mr T £250 to reflect the distress  and upset
caused by its advice.
Meyado should  provide details of its calculations to Mr T in a clear and simple format,
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. 
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd must redress Mr T as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN143580012
Ref: DRN1435800