K822xComplaint
Mr B says Aviva Insurance Limited  unfairly  declined his loss of rent claim following delays in 
dealing with a subsidence claim on his property  insurance.
Background 
Mr B has an ongoing subsidence  claim with Aviva, which started in 2007. He lived in a block  
of flats. Each  of the flat owners put in their own claims  for subsidence  with their own 
buildings insurers. The local council initially oversaw the structural work  and investigations.
Mr B says that in 2010 the council  carried out a repair  to a collapsed drain, which was 
thought to be the cause  of the subsidence. However, this didnt fix the problem. There  
followed a delay of four years. The council  then prioritised the case  and further investigations 
were done.  Mr B says the council recommended underpinning  the property. 
At this point, Mr B says the loss adjuster  assigned  to his claim felt underpinning was 
unnecessary. This delayed the claim further  as more investigations were  carried  out. Mr B 
has provided a loss adjuster report from 2014,  which states the property was uninhabitable.  
He says he was offered  temporary repairs to his property  to make it habitable again, but 
rejected these as he was told the full repairs would be done in the next 3 - 6 months. 
Mr B says that whilst  he still lived at the property he wasnt affected as much by the delays to 
his claim.  And it appears he continued to live there for a time after it was declared 
uninhabitable. But in 2015, he was offered a significant job in another part of the country and 
decided to move. Mr B says he kept paying the mortgage on his flat and his intention was to 
rent it out once  hed moved. But due to the timescales given for the full repairs  (around 3 to 6 
months each time), he didnt feel the temporary repairs  were  practical, or would give him 
enough time to let the property before the full repairs started. 
Mr B adds that he is now in a position  where three  years have passed since  he moved out, 
and the property hasnt been  fully repaired.  Hes said that if he knew this at the time he was 
initially offered the temporary repairs, he wouldve accepted them  so he could arrange for 
the property to be let out. He felt that as a result, he wasnt able to rent the property and this 
is why he made a claim to Aviva  for the loss of rent.
Aviva declined Mr Bs claim.  It initially  offered Mr B £350 for the lack of communication 
during his subsidence claim. After further  correspondence, it increased this offer to £500,  but 
it still declined Mr Bs claim for loss of rent. In summary, it said it had offered three  times  to 
make the flat habitable for Mr B, but he had rejected this. It also said Mr B had requested the 
repairs to be put on hold in 2018 until the results of the monitoring data were known. In 
addition, it said that as Mr B hadnt rented his property out before, there were no grounds to 
consider loss of rent.
Mr B complained to our service, as he was unhappy  with Avivas response.  Our investigator 
looked at the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She said Avivas offer of £500  for 
their lack of communication was reasonable. But she also thought Aviva should  reimburse  
Mr B for loss of rent. She found Mr Bs testimony  to be persuasive. She said that if Avivas 
loss adjuster had been realistic with the timescales for the full repairs from the start, it was 
likely Mr B wouldve agreed to the temporary repairs so he could let out the property. So she 
recommended that Aviva  pay Mr B the costs of loss of rent for a two year period from when 
Ref: DRN10034192property was deemed uninhabitable (subject to the maximum policy  limits), plus 8% simple 
interest. 
Mr B accepted our investigators recommendation. Aviva disagreed. It maintained  its position  
that as Mr B didnt have  a tenant  ready to move  into the property it shouldnt have to pay for 
the loss of rent. It asked for an ombudsmans decision, so its been passed to me to decide.
The complaint was referred  to me and on 8 August 2019, I set out in my provisional decision 
what I felt Aviva needed to do to settle Mr Bs claim.  Ive repeated an extract  below:
Its clear that this subsidence claim involves a number of parties,  and has been ongoing for 
some time now. But the issue Ive been  asked to determine on is if Aviva  unfairly declined 
Mr Bs loss of rent claim. Or to put it more accurately in this case, a potential  loss of rent 
claim.
Ive first checked the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy in regards  to loss of rent. The 
policy terms state If the home is damaged by any cause covered under The 
Buildingsand as a result cannot be lived inWe will also pay a. rent payable  to you; b. 
any reasonable accommodation  expenses  for you; up to the limit shown on your 
schedule until the home  is ready to be lived in
Ive then checked the policy schedule,  which states  the maximum limit for a loss of rent claim 
is up to 20% of the sum insured.
So I am satisfied that Mr Bs policy covers him for loss of rent. What I now need to decide is 
if the circumstances of his claim mean that it should succeed. And having thought carefully 
about everything I think Aviva needs  to do more here to put things right.
Ive seen that Mr Bs circumstances  changed  significantly  in 2015. He got a new job some 
distance away from where he lived, and needed to move. But he was still paying the 
mortgage on his property, so I am persuaded by his testimony that if the property was 
habitable it wouldve  been his intention to let it out.
Aviva say that Mr B was offered temporary  repairs three times in order to make the property 
habitable but he rejected  these. So it doesnt think it should pay for loss of rent as no tenant  
was lined up to move in. But Mr B says he rejected the repairs  because  he was told by the 
loss adjuster each  time that full repairs would be done in the next 3-6 months. So the 
temporary repairs didnt  make sense to him, as it wouldnt give him enough time to move  a 
tenant in before the property needed to be vacated for the full repairs. 
Having looked  at everything from both sides, I am more persuaded by Mr Bs testimony. 
I think that his conduct throughout the complaint in dealing with both Aviva and our service  
lends weight to his version of events. He has been  clear and factual in what  has happened, 
and consistent  in his recollections throughout. 
I think Mr B makes  an important point where  he states that realistically,  he wouldnt be able 
to get anyone to live in the property in its current state. Hes said that had he been  given 
more realistic timescales for the full repairs, he wouldve agreed to the temporary repairs in 
2015 so he could let out the property. And I think this negates Avivas point that the property 
hadnt been rented out before.
Ref: DRN10034193From the photographs and reports that Ive seen of the property, it was clearly in an 
uninhabitable state from 2014.  And I think Mr B has lost out due to being given inaccurate 
timescales by the loss adjuster each  time for the full repairs to his flat. I also think Mr B 
couldve moved out of the property a lot earlier  than he did  considering the flat was 
declared uninhabitable in 2014, but chose  to stay as he wanted to get the full repairs done. 
I havent seen  anything from Aviva to dispute  the timescales Mr B was given each time of 3-
6 months for full repairs.  So I think Aviva needs to accept his claim and make  a payment for 
loss of rent.
Mr Bs said he couldve  rented his 2 bedroom flat for around £600 per month. Current  market 
rates for Mr Bs street suggest  a rental  price for similar flats in the region of £800 - £900. And 
rental rates havent increased much  in the last few years.  So if Mr B had been able to let his 
flat with temporary repairs done, I dont think that £600 per month is an unreasonable figure  
given the size of his property and location. 
Our investigator recommended that Aviva pay Mr Bs loss of rent claim for two years. But I 
think it needs to go further than this. Mr Bs subsidence claim is still ongoing, so there is a 
possibility of further delays in repairing his flat, before he can let the property. 
In this decision, Ive considered Mr Bs circumstances up to the date he first complained to 
our service  in January  2018.  So I think he is entitled to be paid for loss of rent from the 
month after he moved out (August 2015), to the date he brought  the complaint to our 
service. 
In addition, Aviva should  also consider any further claim for loss of rent since  the complaint 
was brought to our service, until Mr Bs flat is in a position to be rented out  either  through  
temporary or full repairs. I think it would  be beneficial to all parties  if Aviva  lets Mr B know  
when it expects this to happen  with an updated schedule of works. If Mr B is unhappy  with 
the proposed  schedule  of works,  he can take this up with Aviva  in the first instance.
Aviva have offered  Mr B £500  for the lack of communication  throughout his claim. Ive 
considered the periods where Mr B had to chase Aviva for updates,  and the overall time 
taken to respond to his queries. But Ive also considered the fact that from what Ive seen, 
Mr B hasnt claimed for any other  expenses  he might have been reasonably entitled to, such 
as alternative accommodation  or living costs. So I think  Aviva needs to acknowledge this 
and consider an award that fairly reflects Mr Bs journey from the date his property  was 
declared uninhabitable to the date he complained to our service.
I think it would be reasonable for Aviva to pay Mr B a disturbance allowance  at a rate of £10 
per day to cover any extra costs he incurred as a result of staying in an uninhabitable  
property. And I think it should  cover  this from the date his property was deemed  
uninhabitable to the date he moved out. 
Taking into account the complexity of subsidence claims, I do still feel there were occasions  
where Aviva could have  communicated better  with Mr B. It could have managed  his 
expectations more  in terms of his options  under the policy such as alternative 
accommodation and reasonable  living costs. And it could have been more  realistic in how 
long the claim would take to resolve.  So I think a payment of £1,000 to Mr B would better 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to him since  the property was declared 
uninhabitable.
Ref: DRN10034194Mr B and Aviva both responded to my provisional  decision  and accepted my findings in full.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  accepted my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them. I therefore require Aviva to put 
things right for Mr B as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr B a disturbance allowance of £10 per day from the date his property was 
declared uninhabitable (March 2014) to the point  he moved  out (8 July 2015)
Pay Mr B for loss of rent at a rate of £600  per month. Aviva should calculate  this 
from the month after Mr B moved  out (August 2015) to the date he brought the 
complaint to our service (January 2018)
Pay 8% simple interest on the sum above,  from the date each rental payment 
wouldve been due (for calculation purposes Aviva should assume rent was due 
on the 1st of each month), to the date of settlement ;
Pay Mr B £1000 for the distress and inconvenience caused from the date his 
property was declared uninhabitable, to the date he complained to our service.
 Income tax may be payable on any interest  paid.  If Aviva Insurance Limited deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr B how much has been  taken  off. Aviva 
Insurance Limited should give Mr B a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr B accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1003419