K820x#14complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the handling  of her debt by Pollock Credit  Union Limited  (PCU). Ms S 
believes the debt isnt owed as shes already made a lump sum payment. Ms S wants  PCU 
to stop pursuing  her for this debt, pay her compensation and reimburse her costs. 
background
PCU considered the complaint but didnt uphold  it. They still think  the debt is owed. Unhappy  
with the outcome, the matter was referred  to our service. 
An investigator has already looked  at this case. Overall he felt the debt was still outstanding 
and PCU  was entitled to pursue her for the recovery of the balance.
In light of Ms S remaining  unhappy this complaint has now been passed to me to look at. 
Ms S has provided further details to our service which she feels  supports her complaint and 
shows practice of unfair debt collection.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst Ive considered all the evidence 
which has been submitted to our service, this decision will only focus on what I think are the 
key issues in dispute. I should start by emphasising that my role is to decide if I think  PCU 
has acted fairly towards Ms S in this case.
Ms S has advised our service that PCU  isnt owed any money as she paid a lump sum 
towards the debt around March 2012. But unfortunately  Ive not seen any evidence  to 
support this statement. I think PCU and now this service has given Ms S reasonable 
opportunity to provide evidence to support her claim.  Whilst I appreciate the length of time 
which has lapsed since Ms S says she made  the payment, given the importance of the 
payment and amount in question, I wouldve expected her to keep some  form of record of 
this transaction.  
I note the concerns Ms S has raised about documents accepted  by the Scottish courts. 
But this isnt something which our service  would consider. My role is to look at the actions 
of PCU only.  
Ms S has raised a number of issues which include inconsistencies in her statements. PCU  
appear to have taken  over responsibility for the debt around September 2015  when it was 
transferred to them. And I note Ms S says the form of charge for payment of money  is 
incorrect. Ive carefully  considered all the further evidence Ms S has kindly  sent to our 
service. But Im afraid I cant safely conclude that PCU has acted unfairly. I would however 
note that its not uncommon for amounts in such  circumstances to increase due to things like 
interest and professional charges being  added to the total outstanding debt. 
As I understand PCU  has taken several  reductions  from shares  to cover interest and 
repayments towards the outstanding debt.  I think theyre entitled to do this. 
Overall Im not prepared  to uphold this complaint. To date Ive not seen anything to show  this 
debt has been  settled by Ms S. 
Ref: DRN10750962my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1075096