K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about the discretionary  management of Contracts for Difference (CFDs)  
carried out by Chryson  Limited. He says:
He suffered a significant loss through the trading Chryson  carried out on a 
discretionary basis, and a large  amount of this (more than half of the total loss) was 
commission payable to Chryson. 
Chryson gave no upfront suggestion as to how much  trading would be done, or that 
over half of the invested funds could be taken up in charges. 
Chryson represented itself as an expert  in discretionary fund management. But the
level of losses in a short period of time is significantly  more  than could have  been  
reasonably expected from any fund manager exercising even modest  ability. So it is 
questionable whether the trades were  carried out in his best interests or simply to 
generate commissions.
Chryson failed to adequately explain the CFD product and its risk.
Chryson failed to provide an adequate system  of reporting.  He and his independent 
financial adviser (IFA) didnt  get written reports and he couldnt  access the online 
system. If the reporting had been  better,  he would have removed  his funds when 
Chrysons inadequate performance  became  apparent.
background
Chryson offered  a CFD trading service called Observatory. The brochure for this service  
(which was sent to IFA introducers) gave the following explanation of it: 
Your Chryson  Service Summary
A boutique broker dealing in specialised  products, offering a very personalised 
service
One point  of contact  for all your needs, your dedicated Account Director will be on 
hand to take your calls
These products  can be difficult to understand, let us help increase your knowledge
Our staff are experienced having worked in the industry for more than ten years each
We like to keep you abreast of market  developments  and price movements, through 
our regular  market commentary  which IS available on our website but can also be 
emailed to you daily if this is more convenient. This helps gain an understanding  of 
markets
Transparency, we will provide you with daily statements as well as online access  to 
view your account
We offer 2 levels of service, execution only where you make  the decisions,  or 
advisory where we help make  the decisions for you
We host regular  networking events for our clients which  you would be invited to 
attend
Our intention is to trade frequently, taking regular small profits  in order  to maximise 
your capital
Given the current market volatility we trade on intra-day price movements where 
possible, and we can make money on the market  going down, as well as up
Ref: DRN17156132Mr F was introduced to Chryson by an IFA. On 4 September 2009  Mr F completed and 
signed Chrysons Account Opening Form, and its Discretionary Management Agreement.  
His details were recorded as the main account holder on the Account Opening Form. A self-
invested personal pension (SIPP)  held by Mr F was added as a joint account  holder later 
and, on 20 October 2009 the name  of a representative of the SIPP  operator  (I assume  acting 
in the capacity of a trustee) was added to the form.
In the Investment Objectives and Attitude  to Risk section of Chrysons form Mr F said his 
investment objective  was capital growth, his preferred  level of risk was high and that his 
investment timescale  was medium, which was described as many investment decisions on 
a medium term view,  at least several months 
On 26 February Mr F completed an application  for a CFD trading account for the SIPP, so 
CFD trading  could take place. Part 5 of that form recorded  Chryson as being the investment 
advisor to the SIPP member (i.e. Mr F). This form was signed by representatives of the SIPP 
trustee on 2 March 2010. 
Mr Fs SIPP transferred £31,000 into the CFD trading account on 23 June 2010. Chryson 
then began to trade  CFDs  at its discretion, using the money Mr Fs SIPP had transferred. By 
2013 £29,383.49 of the amount transferred had been lost. The trading that generated this 
loss earned £18,065.63  in commission for Chryson. 
Chryson did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said it had made Mr F aware of the risks 
associated with CFDs and had not provided  any advice or management in relation to his 
SIPP. 
Our adjudicator looked into things and concluded the complaint should be upheld. She said, 
in summary: 
Chryson said in the Discretionary  Management Agreement There  are no 
management or performance fees. A fee of 0.3%  is charged on the opening and 
closing of a transaction. But she did not think this explanation was adequate. It was 
not clear that the 0.3% was on the full leveraged  amount of the trade, not the margin  
paid by Mr F. 
The same  document  says When a new position is initiated a profit  target of 1% is 
set. if the long or short leg of the trade hits the profit  target, the position is 
closed... She thought that meant  that a trade is automatically closed when it makes  
a 1% profit. But, if that was the case,  she didnt believe, given the overall  0.6% 
charge per trade,  it was likely that capital growth could be achieved.  This wasnt in 
keeping with the significant levels of growth  that would be expected  and hoped for, in 
exchange for making such risky investments.
Chryson had said an average 1.7 deals were made each  trading  day on Mr Fs 
account. She did not think such frequent trading  was consistent with Mr Fs medium  
term objective. 
As the fees were not adequately explained  to Mr F it was not reasonable to have 
expected him to understand the significance of the automatic  closure of successful  
trades when only a 1% profit had been  made. 
Ref: DRN17156133The adjudicator said Chryson should  return to Mr F the money  he had given to it to trade. 
Chryson then objected to us considering  the complaint. It said Mr F wasnt  an eligible 
complainant. The CFD account was a joint account with a trustee company. So we could not 
accept the complaint given that only Mr F signed  the complaint form - especially as he 
appears to have signed as an individual and not as a trustee of his SIPP.
Another ombudsman  considered this, and concluded that the complaint was one we could  
consider. The ombudsman said: 
He understood  Chryson accepted that it, as a business, falls under our jurisdiction 
and its activities in respect of this investment  also fall within our remit. 
To be an eligible  complainant Mr F has to meet two requirements as set out in the 
DISP rules. He has to fall within  one of the categories in DISP  2.7.3R (a consumer, 
microenterprise, trustee etc.) and also have  a complaint which  arises  from matters 
relevant to one of the relationships in DISP 2.7.6R  which includes customer,  
potential customer and beneficiary of (or has a beneficial interest  in) a personal 
pension scheme.
Mr F, as an individual, is a consumer as required by DISP 2.7.3R. He is also the 
beneficiary of, or has a beneficial  interest in, a personal pension scheme, i.e. the 
SIPP. In short it is his money which is invested  in the SIPP and it was set up for his 
benefit. 
So Mr F falls within  the two requirements of the DISP Rules,  as a consumer with a 
beneficial interest in the pension scheme.
Even if that were  not the case, Mr F qualifies on two other grounds. Firstly as a 
consumer who is a customer  or potential customer of Chryson  and secondly  as a 
trustee of the SIPP.
After the ombudsman issued his decision, the adjudicator  reiterated  her initial view. 
Chryson said it did not accept the adjudicators view. It also maintained  the SIPP  was its 
customer, not Mr F. It said,  in summary: 
Chryson did not advise Mr F on the arranging and structuring of the SIPP  or his 
investment. That service was supplied by the IFA. The IFA arranged  the SIPP and 
monitored the performance on an ongoing basis. Mr F was a direct advisory client  of 
the IFA, not of Chryson.
The SIPP operator structured the SIPP and agreed the suitability of the CFD product 
for trading  through that SIPP. It also opened the CFD trading account and agreed to 
the terms of that account.
Without the advice provided by the IFA and the opening of the CFD account Chryson 
could not have traded. 
The commission sharing arrangements  and the IFAs  access to the trading account 
demonstrate the IFAs awareness  of things. 
Ref: DRN17156134The regulator ordered a review of Chrysons business. That review concluded with 
Chryson not being required to take any action. 
Chryson recommended  a hold period for the account of 12 months  which is 
consistent with a medium term view.
Mr F was a partner in a legal  firm at the time the investment  was opened by his SIPP 
provider. He is an experienced lawyer  with an eye for detail and an ability to grasp 
subject matter readily. Mr F had also previously  held Controlled Functions at 
regulated businesses. 
The 1% cap had been removed as a trading  target by early  June 2010 and that Mr F 
and his IFA were informed of this before  trading began.
Leverage was restricted by the provider of the CFD account.  This acted to control 
both exposure and risk. 
In the industry  a leveraged position is referred to as either trade value or transaction 
value  thats what its charges referred  to. 
Mr F had access to the trading platform and had the ability to review trading and 
individual trades on a 24/7 basis.
All charges  to the trading account  were levied by the CFD provider, who paid 
commission to Chryson.  The CFD provider must have therefore made Mr F aware of 
the charging structure, in addition to the information supplied by Chryson.
Mr F also made some comments,  following  the adjudicators view.  He said,  in summary: 
He accepts Chryson did not advise him directly  to set up a SIPP to invest in a CFD 
investment, and this has never been suggested.
He did not receive  daily contract  notes. He had no ongoing information on a daily or 
monthly basis as to the performance of the investment. Only when he took steps  to 
raise a complaint  was a full statement of the dealings made available to him. 
His knowledge of sophisticated financial instruments is non-existent.  
Much  of the correspondence  to date focusses on the procedural  aspects  of the case  
rather than the substance. His complaint is not only that the procedures and 
documents were  incomprehensible to the lay-person, but also about the quality of 
advice and conduct. 
Chrysons response is an effort in obfuscation. It appears to be an exercise  in 
muddying the waters  and apportioning  and spreading responsibility amongst other 
parties. As far as he could see there are four principal parties  involved.  In attempting 
to unravel this complex structure,  he focussed on who lost the money. 
Chryson received  approximately £30,000. Of that, it lost £15,000 in its dealings  in a 
relatively short space  of time whilst  at the same time pocketing  more than this in 
commission. The most generous  interpretation  he can put on this course of conduct  
is that it was appallingly  negligent.  Any financial adviser representing themselves to 
Ref: DRN17156135be reasonably  competent in the marketplace ought not to have lost that amount of 
money in such a short space of time. The worst interpretation is that Chryson simply 
churned transactions to generate commissions without any thought  or regard to the 
nature of the transactions  themselves. 
He accepts that there were the standard  warnings on the correspondence.  But it 
would have been helpful had there  been a warning to the effect  Please note, for 
every pound we lose of your money, we will charge you a pound  commission.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2018. My provisional findings were,  in summary: 
I had noted  Chrysons  references to the involvement of other parties. But it was not 
disputed that it was Chryson, not the IFA, nor the SIPP  operator,  nor the CFD 
account provider  which placed the CFD trades which caused Mr Fs loss. And Mr Fs 
complaint is clearly about the actions of Chryson, not those other businesses. His 
main complaint is about Chrysons  trading decisions and the commission it earned 
through its trading. He has also referred  to Chrysons explanations of risk and its 
reporting. So, I was satisfied that Chryson  was the correct  respondent to this 
complaint. And, to decide what is fair and reasonable, I needed to consider whether 
Chryson acted fairly and reasonably when  carrying out the CFD trading and the 
ancillary activities which Mr F had complained about. 
The application for Chrysons  services was made by Mr F (the main account 
holder), and asked Mr F about both his investment objectives  and his attitude to risk. 
So it was not clear on what basis Chryson  maintains  it didnt give any advice or carry 
out any management in relation to Mr Fs SIPP. Chryson clearly agreed to provide  
investment management services  to Mr Fs SIPP, at his request. And before 
providing this service it asked about his investment objectives  and attitude to risk.  
This was not therefore an execution only arrangement.  Chryson  was giving Mr F 
advice on the investment  of the money held in his SIPP.  Chryson therefore had an 
obligation to ensure  that the account, as well as the trades  which were placed on 
Mr Fs behalf,  were suitable  for him. 
So I thought  the point  to consider first was the suitability of the account and the 
trading Chryson  undertook for Mr F. 
I was satisfied Mr F was willing and able to take a high level of risk. I thought he 
would have understood what it meant to tick the high risk box when he applied  for 
Chrysons service. And the amount transferred into the SIPP  was less than 10% of 
his overall pension savings, which were significant. I was also satisfied that Mr F was 
given sufficient general warnings about the risks associated with CFD trading. 
But that didnt  mean Chryson could trade in any way it saw fit. It still had to act in 
Mr Fs best interests,  and trade in a way that was suitable for him. So it would not be 
fair and reasonable to say, because  Mr F was willing and able to take a high level of 
risk, Chryson could simply trade without any consideration  being  given to the 
suitability of the trades, and the best interests of Mr F. 
I had carefully considered the trading history for Mr Fs account. Having done so, I 
thought the trading frequency, success rate, and commission generated raised 
questions about whether Mr Fs interests were  being  put above those of Chryson.  
Ref: DRN17156136Chryson traded very frequently  more  than once every working day on average.  It 
held the majority of positions for a short length of time. Its trading was not successful. 
The cash  balance of Mr Fs account  began to fall almost  immediately, and continued 
to do so until there was very little money left. Each trade generated commission for 
Chryson, when it was open and closed, and that commission was payable whether or 
not the trade  was successful. So Chryson  had a clear incentive  to trade in order  to 
generate commission.  And the majority of the losses sustained  by Mr F were 
commission. 
I did not think it was fair and reasonable to say such  trading  was suitable for Mr F, or 
in his best interests. I thought the available evidence  showed  Chryson  put its 
interests ahead  of Mr Fs. And it is difficult to see how the approach taken by 
Chryson was suited to Mr Fs objective of achieving medium  term capital growth. 
Chyson consistently  achieved capital losses, and I thought  that was largely  down to 
the approach  it took to trading Mr Fs account, rather than the high risk inherent in 
trading CFDs. The loss was largely down to the charges generated by the very 
frequent trading Chryson undertook,  from which its commission was paid.  
Like the adjudicator,  I was also not satisfied that Chryson offered Mr F an adequate 
explanation of its service. I recognised that Chrysons literature said it may trade 
frequently, and that a charge of 0.3% would apply to each trade.  There  was also a 
section in the annexe to Chrysons  Terms and Conditions  which  said Mr F will have 
to pay commission regardless of how the underlying instrument moves.  And a 
section in the CFD account providers terms which  says charges might have a 
significant impact on margin. But I did not think it was made sufficiently clear what 
any of this might mean in practice.  
Mr F is a lawyer,  and had held controlled functions at regulated  businesses.  But 
those businesses did not appear to have dealt with investments. And Id not, in any 
event, seen any evidence  to show Mr F had any experience of CFD investments. I 
did not therefore think, from the information  available  to Mr F, it was reasonable to 
say he could have  foreseen that the charges could potentially have such  a significant 
impact. And I was satisfied, if he had been aware of this possibility,  he would not 
have asked Chryson to carry out any trading. 
So, setting aside  that Chryson did not trade in a way that was suitable for Mr F or in 
his best interests,  I thought it was also the case that it did not explain things  
sufficiently well. And I thought if it had done  so, Mr F would not have used its service 
at all. I thought  it unlikely Mr F would have agreed to use Chrysons  service  had the 
prospective level of trades  (and the commission  this would generate) been  fairly 
disclosed to him.
With the above in mind, I did not think the point about Chrysons reporting needed 
further consideration at this time because I thought, given  my provisional  findings, 
Chryson should put Mr F in the position  hed likely  be, had no CFD trading taken 
place. And, if that was the case, the point about reporting  which  is essentially that 
Mr F was denied  an opportunity to mitigate  his losses - fell away. 
Chryson did not accept  my provisional decision. The main points it made, in summary, were:  
Ref: DRN17156137Chryson was not obligated to and did not provide any investment advice. Mr Fs IFA 
provided the advice.  All its communications with Mr F were  directed to the SIPP  
Trustee and IFA.  
Mr F was a suitable candidate for the proposed investment, and the risks were  
clearly set out to him and his IFA. 
Chryson acted solely  as the discretionary  manager, once  the account had been  
opened. It was not involved in the sale or recommendation  of the product.
Chryson did not provide Mr F any advice in advance of this account  being opened, or 
at any point provide  advice  in relation to Mr Fs decision to invest  in a SIPP  then into 
a CFD investment.
Mr F and the SIPP trustees  were  provided with Chrysons terms of business  detailing 
charges applicable and subsequent updates to the Terms of Business or 
commissions. These clearly explained  that commission  was 0.3% on the value of the 
transaction. Mr F signed and accepted his approval and understanding  of these 
terms. He was a lawyer and would  have been  able to understand the documents.  
Its brochure explains positions are traded  daily therefore there  are a high number of 
trades per account. Such strategies can incur a comparatively  high level of charges. 
Mr F and the SIPP trustees  received monthly statements from detailing  charges 
applicable and furthermore had full online access to the account at all times. 
In a previous  ombudsman decision  against  Chryson it was held that Chrysons 
brochure alone clearly detailed the proposed commission structure. 
In its view its frequency of trading does not mean that Chryson  could trade any way 
it saw fit. It was clear  in its strategy that there  was a high number of trades. Through 
a period of underperformance Mr F suffered significant loss, however, this is through 
market movement not as a result of it trading simply to make commission. 
The IFA received a share of the commissions charged, to recompense  it for 
recommending and introducing clients to Chryson that it deemed  suitable. 
Mr F did not read the emails regularly sent to him setting out the 
charges/commission.
Chryson was subject to both an FSA thematic  review and a section 166 skilled 
persons review. These concluded its documentation was in order.  
Chryson engaged the services of a London  based research house who provided  it 
with trading ideas.  It researched and entered every  trade with the view to make Mr F 
a profit.  It did everything that would be reasonably expected of it to make profitable 
trades. 
Ref: DRN17156138my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to depart  from my provisional  findings.  
In its response to my provisional decision,  Chryson has again  made  a number of references 
to the involvement  of other parties  mainly the IFA which recommended  Chrysons  service  
to Mr F. In response  to this, I can only reiterate what I said in my provisional decision.  Mr Fs 
complaint is not about the actions  of those other parties and is not about the general 
suitability of Chrysons service for him. It is about how Chryson managed Mr Fs account, 
after he applied for its service. 
I acknowledge the involvement of other parties  is relevant to the question of what  is fair 
compensation. But, in terms of deciding what is fair and reasonable, I am only looking here 
at the acts of Chryson  the complaint is against Chryson, and is about its acts, not the acts 
of others.  Specifically,  and as confirmed above  and in my provisional decision, the complaint 
is about how Chryson explained  its charges to Mr F, and the fact that it generated significant 
losses relatively quickly, which were  mostly  attributable  to the commission  generated by its 
frequent trading. There are additional points about  reporting and the explanation of risk, but 
these have now fallen  away.  In any event, they clearly  relate  to the actions of Chryson  and 
not any other party. 
I should also be clear  that my findings  are specific to the particular circumstances of this 
complaint. Im not looking  at things in general  terms  Im looking at how Chryson  managed 
Mr Fs account  and what Mr F was told about  its charges. And Im considering what  is fair 
and reasonable in the light of that. 
I remain satisfied Mr F was willing  and able to take a high level of risk. He would have 
understood what it meant to tick the high risk box when he applied for an account with 
Chryson. And the amount  transferred into the SIPP for Chryson to trade was less than 10% 
of his overall pension savings,  which were  significant. I am also satisfied  that Mr F was given 
sufficient general warnings about the risks associated with CFD trading. I do not say 
Chryson should not have offered its service to Mr F at all, or misrepresented the general 
risks associated with CFD trading.  
However, I remain of the view that it would not be fair and reasonable to say the manner in 
which Chryson traded Mr Fs account was suitable  or in his best interests. 
The trades Chryson undertook amounted to personal recommendations to Mr F. It asked 
Mr F for details of his personal and financial circumstances,  existing investments, overall 
investment experience, his attitude  to investment risk, and his investment objectives. And it 
undertook to make trades on Mr Fs behalf which took account  of all of this. So Chryson had 
an obligation  to ensure  the trades it made  were  suitable for Mr F, and in his best interests. 
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  I remain of the view that the trades  
Chryson placed were  neither suitable  nor in Mr Fs best interests.  
Chryson traded frequently - more than once  a day on average. It lost £29,383.49  of the 
£31,000 Mr F invested. The trading that generated this loss earned £18,065.63  in 
commission. And, having reconsidered  the trading history for Mr Fs account, I remain of the 
view that it is fair and reasonable to say Chryson  put its own interests  above  those  of Mr Fs, 
Ref: DRN17156139and did not take an approach which was consistent with Mr Fs medium term capital growth 
objective  so its trading was unsuitable  for Mr F. 
Chryson says the loss Mr F suffered was due to market movements, and that it did follow  a 
trading strategy  (although it has not provided any detail of the specific strategy it followed for 
Mr F). I acknowledge that some  of the loss Mr F suffered was due to market movements, 
and that was a risk inherent in CFD trading. I also accept Chryson may have been following 
a strategy. But I have  not seen enough evidence to show  the overall losses Mr F suffered 
were due to a failure in a suitable  trading  strategy  which was in the best interests of Mr F, 
rather than Chrysons frequent trading and holding of positions  for short  periods of time with 
an overriding consideration of the commission it could generate by following such  an 
approach. The amount  of the overall loss Mr F suffered which  is attributable to commission 
generated by Chrysons trading favours the latter conclusion.  
It also seems  to me that the approach taken by Chryson to trading Mr Fs account   opening 
and closing positons which incurred significant charges on a more than daily basis - was 
almost inevitably going to result in an overall capital loss, due to the level of charges which 
would apply. 
I acknowledge that Chryson did give some  explanation of its charges. I remain  of the view 
that it is unlikely  Mr F could have foreseen what happened to his account from the 
explanations he was given. But this is a secondary  point. I think, in the light of what  I have  
said above and in my provisional decision,  it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint even if he was aware, in general terms, of how charges would apply to his 
account. 
I acknowledge too Chrysons point that it account  statements were  sent to Mr F showing the 
trades made  and changes  incurred, but these  were not read by him. Mr F says he did not get 
these statements. But even if I accept  they were sent to him, and did set out the charges, I 
think this is also a secondary point. It remains fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Fs complaint 
 on the basis  of its trading not being  suitable for Mr F or in his best interests  even if 
statements were sent to Mr F but not read by him. A failure to read statements on Mr Fs part 
does not remove  Chrysons obligation  to ensure its trading was suitable and in Mr Fs best 
interests. 
All in all, for the reasons given here and in my provisional decision, I think it is fair and 
reasonable to uphold  Mr Fs complaint.  
fair compensation
Ive reconsidered  the roles  of the SIPP operator, the IFA and the CFD provider in its 
submissions to us. But it was Chryson, and not any of those parties,  that carried out the 
trading which  caused  Mr Fs loss. Given that, and my findings about that trading, I remain of 
the view that it is fair to ask Chryson to compensate Mr F for the full measure of the loss he 
suffered through Chysons trading. 
If Chryson feels that these  other parties have played  a part in the generation of Mr Fs losses 
it can, in return for paying the compensation I set out below, ask Mr F to assign to it the right 
to pursue those  parties in relation to the CFD trading.  It will then be free to pursue those 
parties, if it wants  to. 
what should  Chryson  do?
Ref: DRN171561310 
To compensate Mr F fairly, Chryson should  compare the return  received from the CFD 
account with the return  that would have been  received, had the amount transferred  into the 
CFD account performed  in line with the FTSE All Share Index. The comparison should be 
run to the date Chryson ceased  trading CFDs  for Mr F. From that date 8% simple interest 
per year should be added  to the date of settlement. 
Chryson should pay into Mr Fs pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection  or allowance.
If Chryson is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Fs pension, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the pension, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Fs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr F is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer 
at the selected  retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr F would  have been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Chryson  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr F how much  has been  taken off. Chryson  should  give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ive chosen this method of compensation because Mr F wanted  capital  growth and was 
willing to accept significant investment risk. I think a comparison to the FTSE All Share index 
offers a reflection of how such  an investment might have performed. The additional interest  
is for being deprived of the use of the compensation money since  the end date. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Chryson Limited  should pay the amount calculated  as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1715613