K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Landmark Mortgages  Limited mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on their behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
In October  2008, Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy when they applied for additional  
borrowing on their mortgage. They made  the application by phone. The policy protected  their 
additional lending  repayments if either of them couldnt work  due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment and the benefit  was split equally between them.
Landmark Mortgages Limited  was formally  known  as NRAM Plc and was trading  at the time 
as Northern Rock.  To keep things simple, Ill refer to NRAM as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs B didnt 
agree so the complaint  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
I dont find that NRAM  gave Mr and Mrs B advice.  As it didnt recommend the policy,  it didnt 
need to ensure it was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B.
So the key question I need  to consider  is did NRAM give Mr and Mrs B information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make  an 
informed choice about the insurance they were  buying?  And, if there was a problem with the 
way the policy was sold, then I need  to consider whether Mr and Mrs B are worse off as a 
result. That is, would they have done something different  such  as not taking out the policy  
 if there  hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for the following reasons:
NRAM has been able to provide a recording of the phone call. During the call, NRAM tells 
Mrs B that the policy is optional. This is reflected in the mortgage offer which explains that 
building insurance  is the only insurance which Mr and Mrs B must have in place as a 
condition of the mortgage. PPI is described  as optional insurance. So, overall,  I think  
Mr and Mrs B knew they had a choice  and they decided to take out the policy even though  
they knew they didnt have to have it.
Its possible the information NRAM gave Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. But I dont think they would have been put off taking out the policy  if they 
had received better information. I say this because:
Ref: DRN19071862Mr and Mrs B were  eligible for the policy  given  their circumstances and the terms and 
conditions.
They  werent  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits  such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people. As they couldve  benefitted from the full extent of 
the cover, I think it unlikely  they needed  better  information about the policys  exclusions 
and limitations.
NRAM didnt advise Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy, so it didnt have to check that it 
was suitable for them. Mr and Mrs B told us they didnt need the policy because theyd 
have received sick pay from their employers  and they had some  savings.  But the 
additional borrowing was a major  financial commitment and their home was at risk if 
they couldnt meet the repayments. Despite what they now recall,  during the phone  call 
Mrs B said they wanted some  cover if they couldnt  work due to sickness  or an accident, 
or if theyd  become unemployed.  And she said this knowing what  existing arrangements  
they had in place.
NRAM told Mr and Mrs B the cost of the policy. So they knew, before they agreed to 
take it out, that it would  cost them £46 each month. 
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think Mr and Mrs B wouldve made  a different decision 
about taking out the policy  if better  information had been provided to them   overall  I think 
they would  have still taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1907186