K820x#14complaint
Miss W and Mr H complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc treated them unfairly by 
declining further  borrowing  on their mortgage.  Miss W and Mr H had wanted to borrow  more  
money on their mortgage to repay  a loan they had with a third party.  But Co-op wouldnt 
agree to the remortgage saying it wouldnt agree further borrowing for debt consolidation.
Miss W has managed the complaint throughout. Miss W says Co-ops actions have caused 
her and Mr H a significant amount of stress, inconvenience and has led to them  paying  extra  
interest on the other loan and other financial costs involved in moving their mortgage.
background
In late 2008 Miss W and Mr H took out a mortgage with Co-op.  They arranged a capital 
repayment mortgage of around £85,000 as part of a scheme to help key-workers  get on the 
property ladder. The scheme was a partnership between the equity  loan provider and Co-op. 
An equity loan was given by a third party, and a mortgage was then sought from Co-op.
In 2013 Miss W and Mr H changed  the term of their mortgage and entered  into another 
interest rate product.
In late 2018 Miss W and Mr H contacted Co-op.  Miss W and Mr H wanted  to take out a 
further advance  so they could repay  the equity loan. They wanted to increase their borrowing 
to around £130,000. 
Co-op said it couldnt agree to this. It said its lending  criteria wouldnt allow further residential 
mortgage lending  to refinance  other debts. Miss W complained and Co-op  gave its final 
response dated 8 November  2018. Co-op  sent its final response to an old address Miss W 
and Mr H had lived at before they took out the mortgage in 2008. When  Co-op  realised this 
error, it apologised  and sent the letter again  to the correct address. Co-op told Miss W and 
Mr H the previous copy of the final response letter had been  returned to it unopened.
Miss W brought the complaint to us. Our investigator considered  all the evidence  but didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. Shed checked Co-ops lending criteria and was 
satisfied that it had declined Miss W and Mr Hs request in line with its lending  policy  and it 
had done so in a timely way. She thought it was enough that Co-op had apologised for 
sending the final response to an old address in error.
Miss W disagreed with our investigator. Miss W replied to say, in summary:
-she didnt accept  that it would have taken  a similar period of time (6-8 weeks) to 
arrange a further  advance with Co-op as it would to have sorted out a new mortgage 
with a different  lender;  
-we havent  taken into account  that she was at a key point in her mortgage journey 
and that Co-ops  actions caused  her a lot of stress;
-why did Co-op have the details of a property they hadnt  lived at for 10 years?;
-how many times might post have been  sent there in error?; and
-weve favoured Co-op as were both aware of legislation and Miss W isnt.
This complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN12268852my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information, and 
taken into account  the wider  circumstances of this specific complaint to reach my decision.
I can appreciate why Miss W was disappointed  to learn that Co-op wouldnt consider an 
application for further borrowing. This was the natural next step for Miss W and Mr H. I can 
see that it would have been  very convenient  and perhaps less costly to have been  able to do 
this with their current lender rather than need  to shop  around for another lender  and a 
different deal. I can also see why they would have assumed  this would have been quicker 
and less problematic.
However, when Miss W and Mr H approached Co-op in 2018, they were told from the outset 
that this wouldnt  be the case. Co-op explained  that it wouldnt be able to lend any further  
money to Miss W and Mr H to help them repay their equity loan. It said this was because it 
was against its lending policy.
Co-ops shared  its lending  policy  with us and Im satisfied that at the time Miss W and Mr H 
made their request, Co-op acted  in line with its internal lending rules.  I think it is a good thing 
that Co-op told Miss W and Mr H quickly that it wouldnt be able to help so time wasnt 
wasted in Miss W and Mr H exploring  their options with other lenders.
Co-op also offered  to waive  the exit fee, an ERC (if there was one),  and to pay for specialist 
financial advice from a broker to see what other  deals were available  from other  mortgage  
lenders. I consider this support from Co-op  to help Miss W and Mr H move  elsewhere to be 
good industry practice and fair in the circumstances.
I know Miss W was disappointed that she needed  to remortgage elsewhere and this is 
understandable having  had a mortgage  with Co-op since  2008.  However,  Id say that moving  
from lender to lender to try to get a mortgage  that offers good value for money and offers  the 
level of service that you require is actually fairly typical. While Co-op had entered into a 
lending agreement back in 2008 that it would have continued to honour on agreed  terms, as 
soon as Miss W and Mr H wanted  to borrow more  money, that was a new lending  application 
that Co-op was entitled to consider afresh. I think Co-op was entitled to have changed its 
appetite to further lending  for different purposes.  
I also wouldnt expect Co-op to have contacted all its customers to explain its internal 
lending policy had changed. This was a change in lending appetite  that wouldnt affect 
existing loan agreements. And it might only become relevant to some  customers  at an 
unknown point in the future if they decided to borrow more  money  for this purpose.
Ref: DRN12268853Im conscious that Miss W and Mr H managed to get the mortgage they wanted with another  
lender. However,  Miss W has said the process  of having to move lender was stressful  and 
meant they incurred additional costs. For example, if the mortgage  had been  completed 
more quickly as theyd  hoped with Co-op,  they wouldnt  have needed to pay additional 
interest on their equity loan after November 2018. It seems to me that Miss W and Mr H may 
have been quite optimistic that Co-op would  agree  the further  borrowing that it would be 
processed quickly. I think its reasonable to expect around six to eight weeks for a request 
for further  borrowing to complete. And I agree with our investigator that the affordability 
checks and processing  timescales for further  borrowing  with the same  lender can take a 
similar timescale to remortgaging  with another lender.
Overall I dont think Co-op acted unfairly in not agreeing further  lending  to Miss W and Mr H. 
Co-op did send  its final response letter to Miss W and Mr H at an old address. Co-op say this 
happened because  a member of staff involved in the complaint had selected  a previous 
address by mistake. This meant the final response  was automatically sent to an old address 
and the case handler hadnt noticed this at the time. Ive seen a copy of the envelope sent 
back to Co-op, which was reportedly sent back to Co-op unopened.  I accept  what Co-op has 
said to us about this mistake,  although I can understand why Miss W found  the experience 
disappointing and unsettling. In the circumstances, I think  its reasonable that Co-op has 
apologised for this oversight. I make no further award.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1226885