K820x#14complaint
Ms F, in a personal capacity and as the executor of the estate of her late husband  Mr P, 
complains about  the sale of a joint whole of life policy by Lloyds Bank Plc. In brief, she thinks 
it was unsuitable  for their needs and that other options  werent  properly considered.
background
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, a copy of which is attached  and forms part 
of this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  
In short,  I felt the evidence showed  that reasonable consideration  had been  given  to 
Ms F and Mr Ps circumstances and that, as such, the recommendation of the policy  was 
generally suitable. I highlighted that the policy had been placed in trust, as I wouldve 
expected, and that other options did seem to have been considered.
Lloyds confirmed it had nothing it wished to add. 
Ms F didnt accept the decision.  She said, in brief;
 
Neither she nor Mr P had been  in a position  to make a reasoned  decision regarding  
the product,  a fact that shouldve been clear to Lloyd's adviser.
Mr P had sustained a very serious  injury  in an accident, resulting in paralysis. He was 
in constant pain and had to take very high levels of strong  medication.
His understanding and cognitive  functioning  were impaired and he made the decision 
to purchase the policy based on the advisers recommendation and misplaced trust in 
Lloyds
As Mr Ps full-time  carer Ms F was similarly  vulnerable and susceptible to the 
advisers sales pitch. 
The adviser visited Ms F and Mr P in their home, which not only made them more 
susceptible, but wouldve  made  it obvious how vulnerable they both were. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
I remain of the view that the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.   
I should say first that I do very much  appreciate  the points made by Ms F and can only 
imagine how difficult her and Mr Ps circumstances were following his accident. But, that 
said, the details  of their situation were very clearly noted in the fact find document and it 
does seem that the adviser took proper and reasonable account of them.  He also added a 
paragraph to the recommendation letter confirming that Mr P had advised him that he felt 
capable of making his own decisions and didnt  want anyone other than Ms F involved in his 
financial affairs. 
I understand that these written documents can sometimes  put a gloss on things  and not be 
an entirely accurate  reflection of discussions. But in this case  not only do we have an 
accurate description  of the very specific circumstances of the advice but also a 
recommendation that appears to be generally well-suited to the objective of meeting a 
potential inheritance tax liability. 
Ref: DRN16649082Importantly, as I noted in my provisional decision, there was a clear calculation performed to 
determine the potential liability plus the recommended  policy  wasnt  reviewable, ensuring as 
far as possible its affordability for Ms F going forward. And it was also written in trust to 
ensure the payout would work as planned,  sitting outside the estates to be available to pay 
the tax liability  when incurred.     
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16649083COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Ms F, in a personal  capacity and as the executor of the estate of her late husband Mr P, complains 
about the sale of a joint whole of life policy by Lloyds Bank PLC. In brief, she thinks it was unsuitable 
for their needs  and that other  options  werent  properly considered. 
background
In 2011 Ms F and Mr P met with a Lloyds adviser to discuss estate planning. Through the course  of 
discussion it was determined that they were keen to ensure that the property investments theyd 
made would  benefit their children and that their entire combined estate could  be passed on with 
minimal tax liability.
At the time Ms F and Mr P were aged 55 and 60 respectively. Ms F was still working  but 
Mr P wasnt, having been involved in a serious  accident some years earlier. Mr P had been 
compensated for this by way of an annuity, but his life expectancy was significantly limited.  
The adviser  completed  a full fact find and carried out a calculation to determine  if the joint estate 
would be subject to an inheritance tax (IHT) liability at the point of second death. The calculation  
showed it would be  some  £197,600. 
The adviser  recommended a joint life whole  of life policy  with this amount as the sum assured, to be 
written in trust to ensure  any claim  fell outside Ms F and Mr Ps estates.  The policy had an annual 
premium of just under  £2,500, which was guaranteed  the policy was not reviewable. 
Sadly, Mr P passed away  in February 2018. It appears that this prompted Ms F to re-evaluate the 
recommendation of the policy and, as a result,  make a complaint. Lloyds  didnt uphold  the complaint 
as it felt the policy had been generally suitable and a reasonable  means  by which to meet Ms F and 
Mr Ps needs.
The complaint was then referred  to this service where an investigator  also concluded  that the policy 
had been suitable. She also confirmed that the policy had been placed  in trust as intended, which had 
been an additional issue raised by Ms F.   
As Ms F didnt agree  with the investigator, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
It appears the adviser gave full consideration to Ms F and Mr Ps needs and circumstances  when he 
advised them  in 2011.  And the calculation  of their potential  IHT liability seems to have been broadly 
accurate. This being so, I think the recommendation  of the whole of life policy as a means  by which to 
address the liability seems reasonable.
Recommending a whole of life policy in such circumstances is common practice. But there are some 
important factors to consider  when  doing so. One is affordability into the future, particularly as the 
specific purpose of the policy  to pay out on the second death  may mean the policy remains  in 
force for many years.  
Whole of life policies  are generally reviewable, meaning they have to be regularly checked to 
determine whether the premiums will continue to support  the sum assured. Its not uncommon for 
significant increases in premiums to be required, which can render a policy unaffordable and unfit for 
the purpose it was recommended.
Ref: DRN16649084But, as noted, Ms F and Mr Ps policy isnt reviewable. Providing the annual premiums are paid the 
sum assured  is guaranteed to be paid out when  Mrs F passes away. So this recommendation wasnt 
subject to the affordability  risk described  above. And it appears from the documentation issued at the 
time of the sale that, in any event, full consideration  was given to future affordability,  with it being  
noted that when Mr P passed away Ms F would be able to continue paying  the premiums.   
The other  important factor when using a whole of life policy to meet an IHT liability is to ensure  the 
policy is put in trust, so that when a claim is paid the proceeds are outside the estate and not 
accidentally included, increasing  the IHT liability.  
I note Ms F has concerns  that the policy hadnt been put in trust. But Lloyds has confirmed that it was 
and has provided documents  to support this, showing that a discretionary trust was set up in 2011.  
The information provided to Ms F and Ms P by the adviser also recommended  they take advice on the 
trust situation and ensure another person was named as a trustee. 
So, in summary, it appears that the advice  provided by Lloyds in 2011 was generally suitable. While 
Ms F has questioned  the lack of consideration of alternatives to starting the policy, Im satisfied that  
the adviser looked at the will situation and also the potential for gifting assets, which Ms F and Mr P 
dont appear  to have wanted  to do at the time. 
Ref: DRN1664908