K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that he was mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) by a retailer. The 
insurer, now called AXA France IARD, has accepted  responsibility  for the sale.
background
Mr Z applied  for a store card in August 2002  and at the same  time the retailer sold him a 
PPI policy.
Mr Z thinks the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint  but didnt  think the policy was mis-sold.  In 
particular, it didnt look as though Mr Z had ever been charged anything  for the PPI  and so 
it didnt look as though Mr Z had lost out by being  sold the PPI.
Mr Z didnt  agree. The complaint has been referred  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen,  Mr Z applied  for PPI on 20 August 2002, when he applied  for the 
store card. But AXA has told us Mr Z never paid anything extra because of the policy.
The lender  has sent us its records.  It has found  Mr Zs card.  And it can see that PPI was 
added to the account when it started. But the records also suggest it never charged Mr Z for 
the PPI. 
Weve asked Mr Z what he thinks about  that. He says that he disagrees that he didnt pay for 
PPI  but he doesnt have  any statements showing otherwise because it was a long time 
ago.
Where theres a disagreement about  what has happened I have to decide whats most likely 
based on the information that is available. AXA has sent me records  showing no premiums 
were paid. Mr Z hasnt been able to provide any statements showing he paid for the PPI 
policy. Having considered all the evidence, it seems  most likely that Mr Z wasnt charged for 
the PPI.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about PPI should  be upheld, Id 
expect the business to put the consumer in the position theyd be in if they hadnt bought  the 
policy. This means that even if I did think something  had gone wrong when the policy  was 
sold, I wouldnt award any compensation  because Mr Z hasnt lost out.
As Mr Z never paid anything towards  the PPI, he hasnt lost out financially because of the 
sale of the policy.  It follows that I dont  uphold Mr Zs complaint, and I dont make any award.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint.
Ref: DRN11116882Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr Z to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 26 December 2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1111688