K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited refused to deal with a claim he
made under his car insurance policy when his car was stolen.
background
Mr C bought a car insurance policy with CIS. In January 2019 Mr C said he witnessed  an
accident and pulled over to call emergency  services.  He said he was asked to provide
details of his location. Mr C said he left his car to check the location and left his coat with his
car key inside his car.
While Mr C was checking the location,  his car was stolen. It was later recovered by police
with minor damage. But CIS refused  to deal with Mr Cs claim for repairs and the contents  as
it applied an exclusion which is set under Mr Cs policy. This exclusion said that if Mr C left
his key (or ignition device) in his car while unattended it wouldnt  provide insurance cover for
loss or damage.
Mr C asked us to look at things for him. While he accepted that this was an exclusion under
his policy, he believed  CIS should  consider the extenuating circumstances which led to his
claim.
Our investigator felt that CIS had fairly  applied its exclusion. So she didnt recommend
Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree. I issued a provisional decision on 10 May 2019  intending  to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. I thought CIS should deal with Mr Cs theft claim. 
Mr C accepted my provisional  decision.  CIS didnt  agree. So the case has been returned  to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIS clearly set out in its policy  and also in its policy summary  that it wouldnt  provide
cover in the following circumstances:
Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted  theft if the insured Vehicle is
unoccupied and
(i) the ignition keys or other removable ignition  control  device required to start the
insured Vehicle are left in or on the insured  Vehicle
I think Mr C left his car unattended. But due to the extenuating circumstances here, I dont
think its fair or reasonable for CIS to apply its exclusion. Ill explain why.
Mr C provided  a statement to CIS. He explained that he witnessed  a car crash at a
roundabout and pulled over to call the emergency services. He said the operator asked him
for his exact location and so he had to leave his car to check  a road sign and the exit details.
Ref: DRN13772032Mr C said that giving the exact  details of the location  ended up taking longer and became
more complicated as the operator couldnt  understand. He explained  that it therefore took
more concentration  than he anticipated.  Mr C said he felt anxious about the time passing as
he needed to help the people who were in the car. So he said his attention  was briefly
diverted from his car.
Mr C said that as he turned his head  from the traffic  signboard while speaking to the
operator, he saw that his car had gone.  Mr C told the operator  that his car had been stolen.
CIS verified  the reporting  of the theft to the police.
While we consider what  the policy says and whether an exclusion was clearly explained, we
also consider what  was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. In this case, I dont
think its reasonable for CIS to reject Mr Cs claim.
CIS says that Mr C didnt  stop where the accident happened. He followed the roundabout, 
left at an exit and pulled over. But I dont think this makes a difference.  The fact remains  that 
the reason for Mr Cs stop was because he witnessed an accident  and pulled over to assist.  
CIS also says that Mr C could have  put his hazard lights on and locked the car taking his key 
with him, particularly when he had to walk away from his car to provide the exact  location  of 
the accident. Mr C said he switched the engine  off and put his hazard lights  on. Because his 
car was a keyless start,  the ignition device only needed to be in the car in order to start the 
engine. Mr C said he left the ignition device in his coat pocket  inside the car. 
I remain of the view  as set out in my provisional decision  that I think  its unfair  to apply 
the exclusion here as Mr C couldnt have  anticipated  that hed need to leave his car before 
he called  emergency  services in order to assist  them. And I think  its understandable that 
Mr C in the moment left his car unattended  without remembering to take the ignition 
device with him from his coat pocket - having  just witnessed an accident and while  trying  to 
help.
So Im upholding  his complaint and ask CIS to deal with Mr Cs theft claim under the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. This includes any costs Mr C paid to have his
car released  when recovered by the police  subject to reasonable proof of payment.
I think CIS should pay interest on any fees Mr C has had to pay to recover his car from the
date of payment  to the date CIS reimburses him at a rate of 8% simple  interest  a year.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require CIS General Insurance Limited  to 
do the following:
Deal with Mr Cs theft claim under  the remaining terms and conditions of the
policy.
Reimburse Mr C for any fees hes paid in relation to the recovery of his car and;
pay interest on these amounts at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the 
date Mr C paid to the date CIS reimburses  him.
If CIS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold  income  tax from
that interest,  it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN13772033Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1377203