K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that The Co-operative Bank  Plc didnt close his account when he asked  it to. 
He says payments  debited his account, which incurred fees and caused him to become 
overdrawn.
background
Mr C is a customer of The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op). He left the UK in December 2018 
and, before doing so, visited a Co-op branch.  During that visit he said he undertook a 
number of transactions and instructed it to close his loan and current  accounts. But, while 
Co-op closed his loan account, it didnt close his current account,  which  became overdrawn 
by around £500.  
Mr C complained to Co-op  that it hadnt  followed his instructions and he wasnt happy that 
his account had become overdrawn. But, after Co-op investigated,  it didnt uphold  Mr Cs 
complaint. It said it had made detailed notes during his visit to his branch in December 2018. 
It said these notes showed that he had requested  a settlement figure  for his loan account, 
which was then closed.  
Co-op said it had no record of Mr C asking it to close his current account during Decembers 
visit. It said, during that visit, he made a bill payment and a number of large  transfers from 
his current account  to an account  he held elsewhere. Co-op said Mr Cs account was 
overdrawn by around £60 after these transactions. And because  his current  account  didnt 
have a nil balance Co-op said it couldnt  close it. 
Co-op argued that Mr C was aware  his current account remained open. It said, after 
Decembers branch visit, he continued  to use his current account. It also said it sent letters 
and text messages  about the overdrawn account  balance to the address and mobile number 
it had recorded  for him. So, Co-op felt it had made Mr C reasonably aware that his current  
account remained open. And it felt the overdrawn balance was correct  and that charges had 
been applied  in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. It therefore  asked 
Mr C to contact  it to discuss  arrangements  to repay  the overdrawn balance.  
Being dissatisfied with Co-ops response  to his complaint Mr C referred it to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought Co-op had dealt with this complaint fairly. They 
werent persuaded that Mr C had asked Co-op  to close his current account  in December 
2018. And they felt it had taken reasonable efforts to notify  him his account remained open,  
such as sending correspondence, statements and text messages. But Mr C disagreed and 
asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal  nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what  I think  are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr C and Co-op that Ive read everything that they have  
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something  its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont  think I need to comment on it in order to reach what  I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Ref: DRN10526802I understand Mr C feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything hes said. But Im not going to be able to help him in the way 
he would  like. Ill explain why. 
Its accepted that Mr C attended  a Co-op branch in December 2018 where he asked it to 
close his loan account, which it did. However, whats disputed  is whether he asked Co-op to 
close his current account. 
Mr C says he instructed Co-op  to close his current account. But Co-op recorded detailed 
noted during Decembers  visit and, based  having  seen  those  notes, Im persuaded that if 
closure of Mr Cs current account had been  discussed this would have been documented. 
Theres no reason for Co-op not to record that. And I havent seen enough evidence to 
persuade me that Mr C asked Co-op  to close his current  account. 
After Mr C made transactions from his current account during Decembers visit his account 
was left overdrawn by around £60. He says he received assurance his balance  was nil. But I 
havent seen enough to persuade me that this happened. And theres no reason why Co-op 
would have given  Mr C misleading or false  information about his account balance.  I think  its 
more likely that hed have been  aware that these  transactions would cause his account  to 
become overdrawn.  And I also think,  even  if he had asked Co-op to close  his account  at this 
time, hed have been informed that this wouldnt  be possible until his balance was nil.
Mr C says Co-op ought to have  been  aware that he wanted to close  his current account  
because he was leaving the UK. However, the notes Co-op  made during Decembers visit 
dont make any mention  of him leaving the UK. And, as Co-op made detailed notes during 
this visit, I think  if Mr C had said he was moving  abroad this would be recorded.  
Ive seen evidence  that after Mr C attended  his branch he continued to use his current 
account. The transactions recorded  arent regular payments, such as direct debits or 
standing orders. And I can see from Co-ops  records that, on 4 March  2019, Mr C attempted  
to use his debit  card three times.  He states  he surrendered his debit card in branch during 
Decembers visit. But Co-op disagrees.  It says if he had done his card would have been 
blocked and this would mean he couldnt have tried to use it in March  2019. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr C surrendered  his card in branch. And Co-ops  records 
satisfy me, on balance, that he tried to use his card in March 2019.  This all makes me think  
he was aware his current account remained  open. If Mr C thought  his current  account had 
been closed I dont think he would have continued  to use his debit card in March  2019. 
I can see Mr C continued to receive  correspondence from Co-op about his account balance  
and the charges he was incurring. I appreciate that if he was abroad he may not have 
received correspondence about  his account.  However, the onus would be on him to provide 
an alterative correspondence address to Co-op. 
I understand that Mr C didnt provide  Co-op with an alterative email, address or mobile  
telephone number. And in the absence of him providing those details to Co-op, I cant fairly  
hold it responsible for corresponding  with him at the address  it had recorded.
Mr C was registered for online banking and was set up to receive paperless statements by 
email. So, Co-op notified him each month that his statements were available to view. I 
understand that Mr C didnt log in or access his account online.  He says he wasnt able to 
Ref: DRN10526803access his emails while abroad. But Co-op  couldnt have  known that and Im satisfied it took 
appropriate action  to notify him that his account  remained open  and overdrawn. It didnt err 
in emailing Mr C at the email address it held for him. And I cant fairly hold it responsible if he 
didnt log into his account while abroad.
Its clear that Mr C is unhappy with the fees and charges hes incurred. With that in mind, Ive 
carefully considered  the terms and conditions that apply to his current  account. These terms 
clearly outline the circumstances  in which fees and charges may be incurred.  Mr Cs current 
account didnt  have sufficient funds to cover the transactions and payments that debited  his 
account. So, I dont  think the charges he incurred were unfairly  applied  by Co-op. I also think  
it acted in line with the terms and conditions  of his account. 
I appreciate that Mr C feels very strongly  about  the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything hes said. But, for the reasons set out above, I think  Co-op 
acted fairly  and reasonably. I dont think it made an error. So, Im not going  to ask it to do 
anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1052680