K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the way that CMC  Markets UK plc has operated the spread betting  
account he has with it. In particular he complains that the opening price applied by it in 
Countdown trades he placed  was different to the price it displayed  when  he placed his order.
background
Mr P has a Spread betting account  with CMC  Markets under which he made Countdown 
trades. His complaint  is that the opening price he saw on CMC Markets platform at the time 
of making Countdown  trades was different from the opening  price CMC Markets then used in 
the trades.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short I thought  the 
documents Mr P wouldve  seen  when he opened  his account made clear that the price he 
could see when he placed a Countdown  bet wasnt necessarily the execution  price. I gave 
both parties the opportunity of responding but neither party provided any further information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have been given  no new information  which would lead me to change  the findings set out 
in my provisional decision I confirm those  findings. In summary  I think  Mr P was provided 
with the information he needed  to understand that the execution  price of his Countdown bets 
wouldnt necessarily be the price he saw at the time of placing his bet. I dont think CMC  
markets has done  anything wrong  in the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17969302COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr P complains about the way that CMC Markets UK plc has operated the spread betting account he 
has with it. In particular he complains that the opening  price applied  by it in Countdown trades he 
placed was different to the price it displayed  when he placed his order.
background
Mr P has a Spread betting account with CMC  Markets under which he made  Countdown trades. CMC 
Markets describes Countdowns as fixed- odd trades based on whether  the settlement price  of a 
product will be above or below the current Countdown  price at the end of a range of short-term  
timeframes.
Mr Ps complaint is that the opening price he saw on CMC Markets platform  at the time of making 
Countdown trades was different from the opening price  CMC Markets  then used in the trades.
CMC Markets didnt uphold the complaint.  It explained how a Countdown opening price  is arrived at 
and that this is then subject to market-making either by its automated pricing system  or manually  by 
its dealers. It said in the example given  by Mr P the price displayed on the order ticket at the time he 
chose to execute  his bet was after an adjustment upwards from the prevailing mid-price which is why 
the opening price was slightly  higher  than what  was showing on the candlestick. 
The reference  to the candlestick is a reference to the charts that CMC  Markets  use to show what is 
happening in a particular  market  over a period  of time. In simple terms the chart is made up of a 
series of candles  which  each show an opening price  and closing price.  If the closing price is lower  
than the opening price  the candle  with show as red and if it is above the opening  price it will show as 
green.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  but didnt uphold  it. He said he couldnt see that 
CMC Markets had done anything wrong  and referred to what it had said about the price  possibly 
being more or less than the quoted price,  especially  in a fast moving market.
The investigator referred to the terms and conditions and said these explained  that the price at which 
an order is executed may be less favourable  than the price displayed on the platform when the order 
was placed. He also said that the terms outlined that orders are subject to rapid  price  movements so 
that prices at execution may differ from those shown  on the platform  this was in reference to the 
product terms for Digital 100s  rather than Countdowns.
Mr P didnt agree  with the investigator. He initially said that the Digital 100 product was clearly not 
suitable for a retail client and that the investigator hadnt  addressed this. The investigator pointed  out 
that suitability wasnt part of the complaint he had made to CMC  Markets  and he needed  to put that to 
it first so it had the opportunity  of responding before we could consider that issue.
Mr P then said that the level of detail in the investigation wasnt sufficient  and that there were  lots of 
unanswered questions.  He said that CMC Markets changed the price of his bet automatically without 
his consent and that if they were changing the price of a bet he should be given the chance to accept  
or reject the new price.  
He questioned what was meant by a fast moving  market and how many of the bets he placed which 
slipped did so during a fast moving market. He said a blanket  explanation isnt acceptable  for all his 
bets. He also questioned why any slippage in price was always against him as he would  expect price  
movement in his favour some of the time. Mr P has said that CMC Markets change  the price without 
his consent.  
As Mr P didnt  agree  with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review
Ref: DRN17969303my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Mr P has said about suitability of Digital 100s. This complaint is about Countdowns not 
Digital 100s but regardless of what  product is being referred  to he didnt  complain about suitability so 
we are not able to consider that issue  within  this complaint. 
If Mr P wants us to consider  a complaint about  suitability  he will need to firstly complain to CMC 
Markets and then refer his complaint to us if he is unhappy with its final response or it fails to respond 
within the time it should do.
I am only looking  at whether  CMC markets did anything wrong in the way it dealt with completing the 
Countdown bets placed by Mr P.
Mr P has provided  an example of one Countdown bet of £20, which  was a two minute bet for US30 to 
settle above  an opening  price of 24,440.756. In effect what Mr P is saying is that the figure  of 
24,440.756 isnt the figure shown on the price chart at the time he placed his bet.
CMC Markets has explained  that the Countdown opening price  is subject to market-  making either by 
its automated pricing  engine  or manually by its dealers. In the case of the US30 bet CMC Markets has 
said this meant that the opening price was subject to an adjustment of + 0.846 from its prevailing mid-
price of 24,439.91. This is how an opening  price of 24,440.756 was arrived at.
CMC Markets has been unable to provide a copy of the order  ticket completed by Mr P for the US30 
bet but has provided an example of another order ticket which I have considered. From  that I can see 
that the client  has to choose  above or below the Countdown price shown in the order ticket.  In the 
example the Countdown opening price is different from the price  shown in the chart.
CMC Markets has explained  that the Countdown Opening Price that Mr P saw when he placed  his bet 
might not have been the price  the bet was executed at because  the price couldve moved from when 
it was placed to when it was executed. It has said this is normal in fast moving markets. In the case  of 
the US30 price it said this was set to move only every second so the price movement wouldnt  have 
been very frequent compared to other products that can change price far more quickly.
I have considered how clear  this was in the terms and conditions that Mr P agreed to. Schedule 3 
shows the terms for Countdowns. Under  the heading Countdown Opening Prices  and Settlement  
Prices the following terms are set out:
2.2 The Countdown Opening Price  applicable to any particular Countdown will be generated by and 
displayed on our Platform and displayed on the Order Ticket when the Countdown is opened.
2.4 The Countdown Opening Price  at which  a Countdown is opened  may be less favourable to you 
than the Countdown Opening Price displayed  on our Platform when you placed the Order.
So I think the terms  make  clear that the price that the client sees on the platform  may be different 
from the price they place  an order at.
CMC Markets has also referred to the Risk Warning Notice Mr P will have seen which included the 
following:
10.1 As a result of fluctuations in financial  markets and/or technical  considerations,  there is a risk that 
the Price and/or Settlement Price  (as applicable) which you see through your device and/or which  is 
provided by our client management team when you place  an Order  will not be identical to the Price at 
which the Bet, Digital 100 or Countdown is executed at or settled against and that the corresponding 
Ref: DRN17969304difference put you at a disadvantage. We attempt to generate Prices and Settlement Prices  on a 
continuous basis and to have currently applicable Prices and Settlement  Prices shown on our 
Platform as quickly as possible.  However,  technical conditions may lead to a change in the applicable 
Price and/or Settlement Price between the time an order is placed and the time it is received by us or 
executed by our Platform.  If such changes occur, the Order is generally executed at the Price  
applicable when it is executed by our Platform.
So whilst I understand why Mr P has complained and why he feels CMC  Markets  has acted unfairly,  
given the clear  indication in the documents he will have seen when he opened  his account  I think  it 
made clear that the price he could see when  placing  a Countdown bet wasnt necessarily going to be 
the execution price. I think it was for him to decide if he then wanted to take that risk when placing a 
bet. In short Im not satisfied  that CMC markets  has done  anything wrong because  the Countdown 
Opening Price his order was executed at was different to the price he saw at the time he placed  his 
order.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1796930