K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that after their house  was repossessed, Santander  UK Plc sold it for 
less than it was worth.  They  also say that they werent able to collect  some of their 
belongings from the property as they were given incorrect  information  about when they could  
collect them.
background 
Mr and Mrs M complain  that after their house  was repossessed, Santander  UK Plc sold it for 
less than it was worth.  They  also say that they werent able to collect  personal possession 
from the property as they were given incorrect information about when they could collect  
them.
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Santander.  When they couldnt keep up with the 
repayments, Santander took possession  of their house. 
Mr and Mrs M say that Santander sold the property for less than it was worth.  They say that 
it was marketed for less than local estate agents  had told them  it was worth and less than 
other houses in the same  area had sold for  even though they were  smaller and in worse 
condition. They also say that there  was a lot of interest in the house and it sold for £70,000 
more than the asking price.  Mr and Mrs M add that Santander stated  the property was 
repossessed and needing upgrading on the Home Report.
Mr and Mrs M also complain that they had asked Santander to pick up the rest of their 
belongings from the property before the new owners  moved  in. But they werent told that the 
new owners had moved the entry date forward and had disposed  of their belongings.  Mr and 
Mrs M say that the lost items were  both sentimental  and valuable   and included medical 
equipment needed for a relative.
Subject to any further submissions, my provisional findings were:
It was reasonable  for Santander  to rely on the valuations  and market  the property in line 
with those valuations.
The property was placed on the market  and marketed with a local estate agent. It 
received 41 viewings and offers of £255,000, £276,000, £286,700 and £320,501. Im 
satisfied that Santander  acted reasonably by selling the property to the highest bidder. 
While I can understand why Mr and Mrs M are disappointed at the price achieved, the 
property is only worth what  someone  else is prepared to pay for it. And while they may 
have paid more  when they bought it over ten years ago, there  was a significant 
downward adjustment in property prices during that time. So such a comparison is not 
necessarily an accurate gauge of what properties are worth  now.
The Home Report  does not state that the owner is Santander, merely that it is the seller.  
Nevertheless, I share some  of Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about the fairness  of stating the 
property was repossessed. And Santander  has not done  a very good  job of showing that 
it has acted in line with any relevant  rules  or regulations  when the Home Report was 
produced on its behalf. But there is no evidence that stating the property was 
repossessed actually did affect  the selling price   and that is not supported by the 
surveyor Mr and Mrs M attempted to instruct.
Ref: DRN19868332On one hand, the estate agent  took almost a month to reply to Mr and Mrs M and it didnt 
tell them  when the sale had been brought forward. On the other hand, Santander and the 
agents were clear that Mr and Mrs Ms belongings could  be disposed of, Mr and Mrs M 
didnt contact the agents until more  than a month after their home had been repossessed 
and over a week after the agents  had asked if they still wanted to collect their 
belongings.
I dont consider I could fairly conclude that Santander was responsible for Mr and Mrs 
Ms failure to collect their belongings. The email from the agent on 8 June gave  no 
guarantee that they would  still be available. And it appears that Santander had no choice 
other than to agree to the entry date being brought forward.
In saying that, I there was a delay in replying to Mr and Mrs Ms initial  email.  And I can 
see the argument that it might have been  reasonable  for the agents to tell Mr and Mrs M 
that the entry date had changed.  But even if it had done so, the evidence  we have does 
not support that it is likely  that they would have collected their belongings  in time. I 
accept that it was a stressful time  but if the items held as much  value as Mr and Mrs M 
say then I find it hard to justify  why they did not collect them soon after the repossession. 
And as I have said, without any evidence to show possession  of the items and their 
value I would not be able to make  any award for financial loss in any case.
Santander and its agents havent always acted fairly and reasonably  in dealing with Mr 
and Mrs Ms  its communication could have been more  timely and clearer. I think  that 
has caused Mr and Mrs M some upset, in that if things had been different, they could 
have collected  their belongings. So In view of that I consider it would be fair for 
Santander to pay Mr and Mrs M £200 to reflect  that.
Santander said it had nothing further  to add. Mr and Mrs M responded  to say, in summary, 
that:
They didnt agree there had been  a significant downward adjustment in property prices 
while they owned the property. They said data from the Registers of Scotland that the 
average price went up in that area and this was supported by information on a property 
website. Any competent surveyor ought  to have been aware of that and Santander ought 
to have questioned why the valuation were lower  that the valuation  when they bought the 
property. The obvious conclusion that the property  was undervalued to achieve  a quick  
sale.
It is accepted that Santander and its agents  knew they wanted to collect  their belongings. 
It would  have been reasonable to expect them to either remove them before any sale, 
allow them to collect them or tell them that the completion date had been brought  
forward.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
sale of the property
The relevant  rules say that where a property has been repossessed  a lender should market  
it for sale as soon as possible  and obtain  the best price that might reasonably be paid  
Ref: DRN19868333taking into account  market conditions as well as the increasing amount owed by the 
customer.
It is good practice for a lender to instruct at least two valuations, one of which should be 
independent and to market the property in line with the valuations.
In this case Santander obtained two independent valuations  including  one from a suitably 
qualified surveyor and one from an asset management company. The surveyor  valued the 
property at £250,000. The asset  management  company said the recommended asking price  
was £225,000 with a predicted sale price of £250,000  the asset management  company  
said it obtained the opinions of two local estate agents that supported  its valuations.
Ive looked carefully  at the valuations that were carried out. I note they werent completed  by 
Santander  so it isnt responsible for the content.  But the valuations are detailed and I cant 
see anything that Santander should  reasonably  have queried. I think it was reasonable for 
Santander to rely on the valuations that were carried out and for it to market the property in 
line with the valuations. I cant see on what other  basis Santander could reasonably have  set 
the starting price for the property.
Although the valuation  says it was carried out for possession purposes, I cant see this 
made any difference to the valuation,  other  than the valuation was based  on the assumption 
that contracts would  be exchanged in 90 days.  But this was reasonable bearing in mind  the 
what the rules say. Other than that, the property  appears to have been valued  as any other  
would  for example there is no evidence that the comparable properties were  also 
repossessions. And the valuation took into account the sale price  of on comparable  
properties  not the average  change in property values over the time Mr and Mrs M had 
owned the property.
In any event, the property was placed on the market  and marketed  with a local estate agent. 
It received 41 viewings and offers of £255,000, £276,000, £286,700 and £320,501. Im 
satisfied that Santander  acted reasonably by selling the property to the highest bidder. While 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs M are disappointed at the price achieved, the property is 
only worth  what  someone else is prepared to pay for it. 
Mr and Mrs M say there was an average increase in prices in properties  in the area between  
the time they bought  it and the time it was sold. Ive looked at the Registers  of Scotland  2018 
Residential Market Review.  I accept  that the average purchase price of a property in the 
area where  they lived increased between 2006  and 2018. My intention was to point out that 
generally there had been a downward  adjustment in the property market  following the credit  
crunch. While  I can see that the average  price in their area never fell below the 2006 level,  it 
did reduce in 2009, 2010 and 2013.
The figures above are averages.  It doesnt  follow that every property in the area went  up or 
down in value  by the same amount. In any case,  Ive already found that Santander  took 
reasonable steps to establish  the value of the property, it was reasonable for it to rely on the 
valuations it received and that it acted fairly in the way it marketed the property and in selling 
it to the highest  bidder. So the information presented by Mr and Mrs M doesnt change  my 
decision that Santander took reasonable steps to sell the property at a fair price. 
The Home  Report is made  available  to all prospective purchasers.  It said the seller was 
Santander and This report has been completed on behalf of the lender in respect  to a 
Ref: DRN19868334repossessed property and therefore  some information is not available . Mr and Mrs M say 
this affected the price  their home was sold for.
They attempted to obtain evidence from a surveyor to determine  whether this had affected 
the valuation and the price achieved for their home. The surveyor said that the Home Report 
correctly said that the owner was Santander and this was a legal requirement. They said this 
was normal in repossession cases and that the sale was in excess  of the valuation  and 
arguably reflected  market  value for the property at the time of sale by the lender. This 
doesnt help Mr and Mrs Ms argument.
I note that the Home  Report doesnt  state  that the owner is Santander,  merely that it is the 
seller. Nevertheless, I share  some of Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about the fairness of stating 
the property was repossessed. And Santander has not done  a very good job of showing that 
it has acted in line with any relevant  rules  or regulations  when the Home Report was 
produced on its behalf. But there is no evidence that stating the property was repossessed 
actually did affect  the selling  price,  for much  the same reasons as stated above.
While I appreciate the difficulty that Mr and Mrs M have  experienced in finding a surveyor  to 
express an opinion  on whether  the property was sold at undervalue, the evidence we have 
does not support that it was. So I cant uphold this part of the complaint.
belongings
I accept that the estate  agents communication fell short of a reasonable standard.  It took 
almost a month to reply to Mr and Mrs M and it didnt tell them  when the sale had been 
brought forward. 
But Santander and the agents were clear that Mr and Mrs Ms belongings could be disposed 
of, Mr and Mrs M didnt  contact the agents until more than a month after their home  had 
been repossessed  and over a week after the agents  had asked if they still wanted to collect  
their belongings. The email from the agent  on 8 June gave no guarantee that the belongings 
 would  still be available.
Even if Santander or its agents had told Mr and Mrs M about  completion  being brought  
forward, the evidence  we have doesnt support  that it is likely that they would have  collected  
their belongings in time.  I say that because if the items held as much  value as Mr and Mrs M 
say then I find it hard to justify why they did not collect them soon after the repossession. 
And as I have said, without any evidence to show possession  of the items and their value I 
would not be able to make  any award for financial loss in any case.
In view of that and as Mr and Mrs M have  not produced any evidence to show the value  of 
the belongings, I dont  see how I could  fairly  uphold this part of the complaint in full. I accept 
that Santander hasnt handled this matter as well as it could have. I have  awarded  Mr and 
Mrs M £200  to reflect the upset and disappointment caused  by the poor communication  from 
Santander and its agents.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should  pay Mr and Mrs M £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2020.
Ref: DRN19868335Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1986833