K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold them two mortgage  payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out PPI in 1994  and 2003 to cover their monthly  mortgage  repayments. They 
paid monthly premiums for the PPI, with the first policy covering them  if Mrs H couldnt work due to 
disablement or unemployment. The second  policy covered Mr H only. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints  about the 
sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
I dont know for certain what was said during  the sale but Lloyds has provided documentation  from 
the time which shows me that it made it clear to Mr and Mrs H that the PPI was optional and was 
separate to the mortgages. I believe Mr and Mrs H chose to go ahead with it knowing that was the 
case. For example,  I can see they indicated on their signed mortgage application form of 1994  that 
they wanted PPI to cover Mrs H. They also signed a separate PPI application form in 2003  which  
included details of the amount to be protected and how the benefits were  to be split between them. 
They then signed  a separate direct debit  instruction  for the monthly  premium.   
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. So, as well as having to give them enough  
information for Mr and Mrs H to make an informed  choice  about taking it, Lloyds should have 
looked into whether  it was right for them.  I dont  know what steps Lloyds took but I think its 
recommendation was suitable for them in any case. Ill explain why.
I have a copy of the policy  terms Mr and Mrs H bought in 2003 but, unfortunately,  not for the sale in 
1994. I dont find that surprising  given  how long ago the latter sale took place. Instead, Ive 
assessed that sale using the oldest relevant Lloyds policy document  (dating back to 1998) together 
with experience of what the typical features of these sorts of policies were. 
From what  Mr and Mrs H have told us about  their circumstances in both 1994 and 2003, it appears  
theyd have been eligible for the cover and Ive seen nothing  to show  that it was unaffordable for 
them. And I cant see that theyd have been affected  by the main  exclusions to, or limits on, the 
cover. 
Mr and Mrs H say they were entitled to enhanced  sick pay and/or redundancy pay through their 
respective employers and so had no need for PPI. But the PPI would have paid out for a 
considerable time, at up to 12 months  per disability or unemployment claim. Although Mr and 
Mrs H had savings, the PPI would have allowed them to retain what  theyd built up or use them to 
cover their other living  costs at what could have been a difficult  time if they werent working.
Overall, and taking into account that Mr and Mrs Hs borrowing was secured against  their home, I 
think its likely theyd have valued  the extra protection the PPI provided them  with.
Ref: DRN12343432Its possible Lloyds didnt  point out everything  it should have about the PPI, but I dont find that 
Mr and Mrs H lost out because of that. I say this because, for the same reasons I think the PPI was 
suitable for them, I dont  think  better information  would have stopped Mr and Mrs H from buying it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept  
or reject my decision before 19 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1234343