K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him for two purchases made using his debit 
card. He says he didnt  spend the money  in question  and hes been the victim  of fraud.
background
Mr O checked his internet  banking  one evening. He noted there  had been  two payments 
made a short while  earlier that day, which he didnt recognise. So he contacted Lloyds. Mr O 
confirmed hed had his debit card with him at the times the two transactions took place.
Lloyds said it wouldnt refund him for the two transactions. The bank said it wasnt likely that 
somebody unknown  to Mr O would be able to take his debit card and return it to him without  
him noticing. And this would be the sixth time in as many months that Mr O had been the 
victim of fraud  in similar circumstances.
After each previous  occasion of fraud hed been given a new debit  card. There  had been  no 
attempts to use any of the old debit cards  after Mr O had reported the previous frauds. This 
didnt seem like the actions of a fraudster. The bank thought it was more likely  Mr O had 
made or authorised the spending.
Lloyds later decided  to close Mr Os account  by giving him the required notice.
As Mr O wasnt happy with Lloyds response to his fraud claim  he contacted us. One of our 
investigators looked into things for him.
Our investigator agreed with Lloyds. He didnt  think the bank had to refund Mr O any of the 
money he said had been  spent fraudulently. As Mr O had confirmed he was sure hed had 
his debit card with him at the time the transactions took place and nobody  else knew the 
details of his card, the investigator couldnt  really see any way somebody other than Mr O 
had carried out the spending.
In coming to this conclusion, the investigator considered the requirements of the Payment 
Services Regulations (PSRs)   as these set out whats  needed  for a bank to hold a customer  
liable for spending in circumstances like this.
And he could understand why Lloyds had decided to close Mr Os account as it seemed very 
unlikely for one person to be the victim of so much fraudulent activity  over such  a short  
period of time. The bank had covered the cost of the previous frauds and would be 
concerned about  this continuing.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators view. So his complaints been passed  to me to 
review and issue a final decision  on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr Os quite upset by whats happened  here. Thats fairly clear from what hes said 
to us (and to Lloyds). And thats not surprising. Theres nearly £100 involved in these last 
two transactions.  So Mr Os bound to be concerned.
Ref: DRN17045522But Im afraid I have to tell Mr O that I agree with the investigator that Lloyds doesnt have to 
refund him the money spent on the two purchases. Indeed, theres very little I can usefully 
add to what the investigators  already  told Mr O. I think hes set out the position quite 
thoroughly and clearly.
Having said that, its important I reassure Mr O that Ive looked at his complaint afresh  and 
considered everything  he and Lloyds have said.
Mr O is clear he used  his latest debit card for some  genuine spending not many  hours before 
the two disputed transactions. And he says when he logged on to his internet banking later 
that evening he still had the card with him. Thats what hes told both Lloyds and us. And 
hes also been clear  nobody else has had access to his debit card details.
Lloyds records show his debit card details were used to make the two transactions.  The 
person making  the purchases would  have to have the card itself or detailed  knowledge about 
it and the connected security  information thatd be needed to buy the items.
Like the investigator, I find it hard to see how somebody other  than Mr O spent the money. 
I realise thats a difficult message to give. But its where the available  evidence leads me.
I cant completely rule out the possibility somebody  close to Mr O has taken  advantage  of 
him by using  his debit  card without his permission.  That person would have to be very close  
to him  as theyd  need to know when  new cards had been provided by Lloyds and to stop 
using them when  theyd  been replaced.  But thatd  only be possible if Mr O hadnt been as 
careful with his cards (and other bank details) as he says he has.
Im aware Mr O has contacted the two retailers involved and theyve simply referred  him to 
his bank. Thats not very helpful. He may want to pursue the retailers further about where  the 
goods were delivered  or what identification  was provided at the time of collection. But doing  
any formal investigation  on this is outside our role  and not something  Id necessarily 
expect Lloyds to do.
So, in summary,  I think Lloyds is right not to refund Mr O. And in coming  to this conclusion,  
Ive considered carefully the requirements  of the PSRs, and the guidance of the Financial  
Conduct Authority,  around  authorisation of spending. And, on this occasion, Im satisfied 
Lloyds can hold Mr O responsible for it.
Lloyds gave Mr O the required notice to close his account. Its been fairly open about  why its 
done this. In the circumstances  I dont think that decision  was unreasonable.
I realise Mr O will be disappointed with my decision.  He may want to take the matter  further  
through other routes.  But my decision brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve  his 
dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for him. Im sorry  we cant  help Mr O any more  on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint and 
Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to refund him for either of the transactions.
Ref: DRN17045523Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1704552