K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about the decision  by Society of Lloyds (SoL) to decline his claim 
under his short term income  protection insurance  policy.
background
Mr H took out the policy in January  2018, while he was planning to take out a mortgage  to 
buy a house. The policy would pay a monthly  benefit, for up to twelve  months,  in the event 
that Mr H was unable  to work because of illness or injury.
Later in January, Mr H suffered chest  pains. His GP certified him as unfit to work while he 
underwent investigations.
In February, his GP continued  to certify  him as unfit to work, not only because of the chest  
pains but also because of depression.
Mr H made  a claim under his policy. SoL initially declined the claim on the grounds that his 
chest pains existed before the policy started.
Mr H asked that SoL consider his claim on the basis of his depression.  However, SoL 
declined the claim  on this basis also. This was because Mr Hs condition hadnt been  
confirmed by a consultant  psychiatrist as required under  the terms of the policy.
Mr H was unhappy at SoLs decision. He referred his complaint to us. While  the complaint 
was under investigation, he also provided  a letter from a consultant  psychiatrist dated 
March 2019.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be upheld in 
part. My findings  were as follows:
The policy, under the heading Accident and Sickness Exclusions, states:
No benefit will be paid to you if your accident or sickness  is due to stress, anxiety 
or depression or any mental or nervous disorder unless confirmed by a 
Consultant Psychiatrist
The investigator thought that this clause was intended to restrict claims to the most serious 
forms of mental health problems. However, while this might be what SoL intended the clause 
to do, it doesnt  say or imply this. The clause  refers to milder  conditions such as stress and 
anxiety and simply requires that the condition in question is confirmed by a consultant 
psychiatrist.
Nonetheless, it is up to an insurer to decide  the terms of its cover  and in this case  SoL 
clearly wants to exclude cover for all mental conditions except those which have  been  
confirmed by a consultant  psychiatrist. As the investigator pointed  out to Mr H, the 
requirement for a consultant psychiatrists opinion is presented as an exception to an 
exclusion so I think Mr H should reasonably have realised when he took out the policy  that 
he wouldnt  otherwise  be covered  for incapacity  due to mental health conditions. And while 
Mr H has said there  was slightly  different wording  on the summary  document he was given 
before taking out the policy (Back and stress conditions  are only covered  if they are proven 
Ref: DRN19879202by a specialist) I dont  consider  this was misleading as to the actual policy  terms. I cant  
reasonably conclude that the policy clause is unfair.
Mr H saw his GP in February  2018 complaining of low mood. He said hed been feeling like 
that for a few months  but things had got worse more recently, particularly following the 
unexpected death of his mother  (shortly after the policy had started).  He declined the offer of 
medication but agreed to attend counselling.
The counselling  service  assessed him using two tests. According to the results,  Mr H was 
suffering from severe depression. He was deemed  suitable to be treated  through  cognitive 
behavioural therapy. He also returned to his GP and asked for medication alongside this.
On this evidence,  I think  it was reasonable for SoL to decline the claim. I acknowledge the 
scores which  Mr H obtained  on the mental health  assessment but he still hadnt been 
assessed by a consultant  psychiatrist. I consider that the scores,  in themselves, dont 
necessarily demonstrate that he was suffering from mental illness.
It appears that, sometime following the decline  of his claim, Mr H returned to work.  And in 
November 2018,  he cancelled the policy.
In March 2019, Mr H reported that he was now under the care of a consultant psychiatrist,  
who Ill call Dr A. Mr H provided a letter from Dr A. This says:
[Mr H] has been  under the care of the Home Treatment  Team  for the last few weeks  after 
having a relapse of his depressive  illness. Looking at the clinical records and his history it 
appears that [Mr H] had his first depressive episode at the beginning of last year and this 
was in relation  to psychosocial stressors. Since then he had a further few relapses.  He was 
referred to Home Treatment. Following  referral [Mr H] was moderately depressed  and 
experiencing thoughts of ending his life.  
Dr A refers to Mr H suffering a depressive episode at the beginning  of 2018, which ties in 
with Mr Hs claim. And while Dr A makes clear  he is simply  basing this on a file review,  as 
opposed to an assessment  of Mr H at that time, I see no reason to discount  his opinion. The 
policy requires that Mr Hs mental  disorder is confirmed by a consultant psychiatrist.  Dr As 
letter says that Mr H was indeed apparently suffering from a depressive disorder. On that 
basis I think SoL should accept that the exclusion is no longer applicable to Mr Hs claim and 
reassess his claim accordingly.
I should make clear that this doesnt  mean that SoL was wrong to decline Mr Hs claim 
initially. It was only after it was presented with Dr As evidence  on 14 February  2019  that SoL 
could reasonably have been  expected  to re-consider Mr Hs claim without reference to the 
exclusion. And because Mr H provided this evidence only after he had cancelled  his policy, 
SoL isnt liable for providing cover  beyond the date of cancellation.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr H was pleased with my findings. However  he said that SoLs refusal to accept his claim 
had caused him financial  and emotional  strain which he had found difficult  to deal with, 
particularly as he had been suffering from depression. He asked that I consider awarding 
compensation for this.
Ref: DRN19879203SoL didnt  dispute  my finding that it should reassess  Mr Hs claim without reference to the 
exclusion but it pointed  out that the crucial  evidence, namely the letter  from Dr A, wasnt  
presented to it until after it had issued its final response to the complaint. For this reason, it 
considered it was unfair to record that the complaint had been upheld.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered whether Mr H should  be awarded compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience. However, until SoL was presented with Dr As letter  in March 2019, Im 
satisfied that it was fair for it to decline  the claim. This means that I cant reasonably  award 
compensation for before that date, including during the period of the claim which was when I 
think it likely  that Mr Hs financial and emotional strain  was greatest. And I dont think  
compensation is warranted  for the period  since  March 2019.
SoL is correct that the crucial evidence, Dr As letter, wasnt available  to it at the time it 
issued its final response to the complaint.  However,  it was provided with that evidence  
during the investigation. SoL agreed  to consider the evidence and, having done  so, 
confirmed that it made no difference  to its decision. In light of this, Im satisfied it is fair for 
me to take that evidence into account in this decision and to record that the complaint is 
upheld.
Im therefore  satisfied that my provisional  decision  should stand.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Society of Lloyds  to accept that the exclusion  is no longer applicable to Mr Hs claim 
and reassess his claim accordingly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1987920