K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Lloyds Bank PLC has not properly  compensated him for a mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy it sold to him in 1997.
background
Mr K took out a loan for £7,000 in June 1997. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy. 
The policy was funded with a single  premium of £1,342.60 which  was added  to the main 
loan. This meant that Mr K borrowed £8,342.60 in total. The loan was meant to be repaid 
over 60 months.
In November 1997, after making five loan repayments, Mr K tried to cancel the PPI policy.  
But he was told the only way he could do so was to replace the loan with another  without 
PPI.
So in November 1997 he took out a new loan for £7,000 without PPI which  was used to 
repay the original  loan.
In 2018 Mr K complained about  the sale of the PPI. Lloyds agreed the PPI was mis-sold and 
paid Mr K £743.81 compensation.
Mr K didnt think Lloyds had properly compensated him and asked us to step in.                  
An adjudicator from this service thought Lloyds offer was fair. Mr K disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Lloyds has agreed  to uphold the complaint about  the mis-sale of the policy.  So I wont look 
into how the PPI policy  came to be sold to Mr K. In this decision I am only looking at whether 
Lloyds has fairly compensated Mr K.
Having considered all the evidence I think Lloyds  has fairly compensated Mr K and Ill 
explain why.
When a business  is found to have  mis-sold  a PPI policy our approach is that the business  
should, as far as is possible, put the consumer in the position theyd be in if the policy  had 
not been sold. 
In this case the PPI sold was funded  by a single premium added to the main  loan.             
This meant that Mr Ks monthly repayments  were  higher each month  than they would have 
been. So Id expect Lloyds to refund the extra Mr K paid each month plus interest for the 
time hes been out of pocket. 
Mr K paid the first loan off early, and in doing  so he would have paid more because  the PPI 
premium was added to the loan. He repaid the first loan with a new loan in November  1997.  
So the extra  amount caused by PPI would have  been carried  over into the new loan making 
Ref: DRN11044122his new, monthly repayments higher than they would otherwise  have  been.  So Id expect 
Lloyds to refund the extra amount Mr K paid each month on the new loan plus compensatory 
interest. 
Lloyds says it has done as Ive set out above, so Ive looked at the calculations  it has 
supplied.
Lloyds does not hold accurate data for all parts  of the calculation  it needed to carry out. 
From its internal records Lloyds knows the start and end date of both loans, it knows that the 
main loan was £7,000  for both loans  and it knows that the term of both loans was 60 
months. Its had to make assumptions about  other  parts of the calculation  as it does not hold 
the actual data. In particular  its had to estimate  the rebate Mr K would have received when 
he cancelled  the PPI policy early. I would not expect Lloyds to have all the data available  
after so many years, but Id expect any assumptions  it made  to be fair and reasonable.
Mr K paid five repayments on the first loan. And of those five repayments £163.55 was 
caused by the PPI. And I can see Lloyds refunded this amount. It also paid Mr K £220.42  
compensatory interest  (net of tax) for the time hed been out of pocket.
Lloyds says that when Mr K repaid  the first loan and cancelled  the PPI he received an 
estimated rebate of £1,129.84 of the original PPI premium of £1,342.60. Lloyds says this 
rebate was used  to reduce the original loan before the funds from the second loan repaid the 
balance. But the rebate was not enough  to completely repay the outstanding PPI premium 
so some residual amount  was carried over into the second loan.
For the second loan it calculated that Mr K paid £157.33  extra because of the residual  PPI 
premium that was carried over from the first loan and it refunded  this amount to Mr K.   
Lloyds also paid Mr K £202.51 compensatory interest (net of tax) for the time hed been out 
of pocket.
If the above figures are correct then Im satisfied that Lloyds has fairly compensated Mr K in 
the way Id expect  it to and has put him in the position hed be in if the PPI had not been 
sold. 
The crux of Mr Ks complaint is that he disputes  the amount of the original premium  Lloyds 
says the insurer  rebated  when the PPI was cancelled. The estimated rebate  amount of 
£1,129.84 represents approximately 84% of the original  premium. Mr K has pointed  out that 
many single premium PPI policies did not give a pro-rata refund of the premium on 
cancellation so he doesnt think he would have received as much  as £1,129.84.
Ive thought carefully about this. 
Mr K is correct  that in most cases when a single premium PPI policy  was cancelled early, the 
policyholder would not receive a pro-rata refund. In many cases the insurer calculated the 
rebate using a formula known  as rule of 78 which assumed there  was a higher risk for the 
insurer in the early years of the policy and less risk towards the end. For example, if a 
policyholder cancelled a single premium  PPI policy half way through the term theyd receive 
significantly less than 50% of the premium as a rebate. 
But Mr K cancelled his policy  very early  on, after only five months of a 60 month term with 
over 90% of the loan term remaining.
Ref: DRN11044123Lloyds has estimated he would have received a rebate of £1,129.84 or around 84% of the 
original premium. So Mr K wouldnt have received a pro-rata rebate but Lloyds has 
estimated that because  he cancelled the policy so early in the term there was not a 
significant difference. From experience I think this is likely to have  been  the case and the 
estimated rebate of £1,129.84 is fair and reasonable.  In effect the longer Mr K left it before 
cancelling the policy, the bigger the difference would have  been  between a pro-rata  rebate 
and the actual rebate. 
Mr K has also questioned how the second  loan could have been exactly  £7,000. Ive thought 
about this. Lloyds has told us its records show the second loan was exactly  £7,000.  But I 
think the amount  needed to repay the first loan, taking into account the PPI rebate and the 
five loan repayments he made, was likely  to have been less than £7,000. So after the 
original loan was cleared,  there would have  been a small sum left over.  I note that in Mr Ks 
complaint form to this service he recalls receiving a little over £200 from Lloyds  after the 
second loan completed. I think its very likely this amount was the difference  between  the 
£7,000 borrowed  on the second loan and the amount needed to clear the first loan.   
In summary  I think Lloyds has calculated Mr Ks compensation using reasonable 
assumptions where it doesnt hold actual data. And I think it has calculated the 
compensation in the way Id expect  it to.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no further  award against 
Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1104412