K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he has on finance with BMW  Financial Services 
(GB) Limited (BMWFS). He says its been  faulty  since he received it and he therefore 
wants to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
background
Mr P took receipt of his new car in June 2017. He financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS. But about  seven months later he took the car back to the 
dealership and complained about  an intermittent rattling  noise. 
Despite several attempts, over a period  of around five months, this rattling couldnt be 
rectified. But BMWFS  wouldnt allow Mr P to reject the vehicle. They  said they werent 
convinced the vehicle had problems at the point of supply as they noted it had taken Mr P 
quite some time to report the problems. So instead  they offered  Mr P a £2,000  contribution 
towards another vehicle. But Mr P wasnt happy and he therefore referred his complaint to 
this service.
Our adjudicator took a look at the evidence and he thought BMWFS hadnt been fair in the 
circumstances. He didnt  think  it was reasonable that a new car should have faults of this 
kind, so soon after it was delivered to the customer. He noted that the engine mounts had 
been repaired and thought that any fault in this area was most likely to have been there from 
the point of supply and he noted  that repairs had been unsuccessful, so he didnt think it was 
fair to disadvantage Mr P any further and allow BMWFS to attempt further repairs. So he 
thought it would be reasonable for BMWFS  to allow Mr P to reject the car; return his deposit 
and return 10% of the instalments hed made  towards his agreement from the date the fault 
was first reported in January 2018.
But BMWFS  didnt agree.  They said the first repair  wasnt carried  out until ten months after 
Mr P had taken receipt of the car and they thought  this suggested the fault wasnt  there or 
developing at inception.  They said that rattles tended to be present in performance cars and 
they were built for performance and not luxury. So they didnt think there  was anything wrong 
with the car that would render it unfit for purpose. They therefore asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think BMWFS have done enough here and I think they should allow Mr P to reject the 
vehicle. I know that will disappoint  them  so please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN15812352Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS is 
responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what is fair and reasonable. On 
this basis if I thought the car was faulty  when supplied, Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask 
BMWFS to put this right.  But BMWFSs  responsibility is not unlimited. Theyre only 
responsible for faults that are present or developing at the point of supply and not for 
problems that occur subsequently.
Mr P reported the problem about seven months  into his agreement. I can see that the 
dealership considered the fault to be related to the engine mountings or emanating  from the 
A-pillar area and I think its reasonable to suggest that sort of problem wouldnt be due to 
wear and tear and would  most  likely  have been present or developing at the point of supply.  
The relevant  legislation  therefore  allows BMWFS an opportunity to repair  the car; but theyve 
had several and the car is still rattling, so I think they should now allow  Mr P to reject  the car.
I dont agree with BMWFSs suggestion  that performance vehicles can be expected  to have  
these sorts  of problems.  This was a new prestige, performance vehicle and I think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be fault free and rattle  free.
Mr P has raised some concerns over the proportion of instalments that the investigator 
suggested were returned  to him. I can see that hes had to return  to the dealership on 
several occasions between January and June 2018  but I also note that hes managed  to 
complete about  6,200 miles in the first ten months. Thats  broadly  in line with the 8,000 
annual miles in his finance agreement. So I think Mr P has been  able to get reasonable, 
albeit it impaired usage out of the car and I therefore think the investigators  suggested  
redress is reasonable in the circumstances. I also think  hes right to suggest Mr Ps deposit 
is returned to him as thats the approach  this service would usually take.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and tell BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to:
end the finance agreement with nothing further to pay and collect  the car at no cost 
to Mr P
refund  Mr Ps deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the point of 
payment to the point of settlement
refund  10% of the instalments made by Mr P from, and including, January 2018. Add 
8% simple interest  per annum from the point of payment to the point of settlement
ensure there is no adverse information  reported to Mr Ps credit file in relation to this 
issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1581235