K822xcomplaint
Ms D has complained MBNA Limited wont refund the cost of her veneers which she 
believes havent proven to be fit for purpose. Shes made a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background 
In September  2016 Ms D had her first consultation  for the fitting  of cosmetic veneers. It was 
agreed the work would  cost £7,850 and Ms D would have  veneers fitted  to her top teeth. 
Ms D paid £1,500  as a deposit  using  her MBNA  credit card.
Early on Ms D was concerned at the preparation  and planning involved in her treatment. 
Shed had no diagnostic x-rays and her temporary veneers, fitted in December, kept falling 
out and having to be re-secured with ever tougher cement. She registered  a complaint with 
her supplier,  L.
Ms D had her permanent veneers fixed in January 2017. As she was unhappy with what had 
happened, shed already been to another dentist to have x-rays done. She needed  extensive  
root canal treatment  which ended up costing  her £2,153.80 and £3,616.40. She also got a 
quotation for her veneers  to be refitted as she was advised these wouldnt last as long as 
shed been told they would.
Ms D complained to MBNA that her veneers werent fit for purpose. MBNA  rejected her claim 
as they didnt feel there was sufficient evidence to show  thered been a breach  of contract. 
Ms D brought her complaint to the ombudsman  service.  She provided reports  from her 
current dentist detailing  the work  that was to be required to her teeth.
Our investigator felt there was enough  evidence to show there had been  a breach of contract  
in the standard of provision of Ms Ds veneers. She asked  MBNA to pay for the costs of the 
x-rays that Ms D additionally paid for and the replacement costs  of having veneers  re-fitted.
MBNA disagreed with this outcome. They also noted Ms D had referred  L to the General 
Dental Council. They felt it was appropriate to await  the outcome  of those deliberations as 
this would amount  to an independent report.  They were  also concerned at any compensation  
Ms D being  awarded  by our service being  duplicated. 
The GDC came  to a conclusion in September 2019. They found L guilty  of misconduct but 
didnt believe the charge  L had provided  a poor standard of treatment for the permanent 
restoration was proven.  The GDC report was shared with MBNA. In response MBNA  offered 
to pay the costs of diagnostic  x-rays, which  L should have included in Ms Ds treatment, and 
£300 for the breach of contract  and poor standard of treatment provided for the temporary  
veneers (restorations).
Our investigator  new to this case  believed this was fair and reasonable and confirmed 
this to Ms D.
She couldnt believe this outcome had been  changed so drastically.  She explained the 
GDCs role is to make decisions on the dental  professions fitness to carry out procedures. 
She didnt  think when coming  to their conclusion theyd examined her current dental health 
and veneers and felt she should put more weight on her current dentists view.  
Ref: DRN11942422This complaint was referred to an ombudsman.
I completed a provisional decision on 28 September 2020. I believed more compensation 
should be paid to Ms D although overall  I didnt  believe the outcome of the GDCs 
deliberation wasnt fair.
MBNA accepted this outcome. Ms D provided  us with a copy of further evidence shed 
submitted to GDC in a hope her case would  be revisited. She, however, couldnt confirm  a 
timescale for this.
I shared Ms Ds new evidence with MBNA.  They didnt believe this made them  change  their 
mind.
I now have all I need to make my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion I came to in my provisional  decision. Ive 
taken the time to review and consider the further evidence Ms D has given to us.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit  to buy goods  or services.  In this case Ms D used her 
MBNA credit card to pay the deposit  for having cosmetic veneers  fitted.  
Its worth  clarifying Im not deciding MBNAs liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  
Act. We certainly  consider the relevant  law and that includes  section  75. But we decide 
cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What Im 
deciding is whether MBNA did enough in considering Ms Ds complaint. And if they didnt, 
what else should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods then its fair 
to ask MBNA to put things right. 
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  above in far less detail than either  of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words.  Im not going to respond  to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. I dont need to comment on every  individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators views of 16 August 2018 and 
8 July 2020. Im also content that both parties have seen the GDCs report  into a 
representative of Ls professional conduct.  Im not going to go through their findings in detail 
as extensive quotations from the document have already been shared with both MBNA and 
Ms D. MBNA has also seen a copy of the subsequent evidence Ms D has provided to us.
Ref: DRN11942423Firstly I should explain why I think its fair and reasonable for our service  to rely on this GDC 
report. I appreciate  Ms Ds comments that the GDC is to consider  instances of professional 
misconduct and they wont have examined  or been appraised  of her dental health  in detail. 
However they are the independent regulator  for the dental care profession. They have made 
a finding on whether theres been a poor standard of treatment for both the provision of her 
temporary and permanent restorations.  I see no reason  why I cant rely on their professional 
expertise when I make my finding.
For example if theyd found Ms D had got poor treatment for her permanent veneers, I 
believe both Ms D and MBNA  would  have accepted this would mean  thered been  a full 
breach of contract.  In fact GDC believed the charge  Ms D had received poor treatment for 
the provision of her permanent veneers  wasnt proven.  She did, however, get a poor 
standard of care for the temporary veneers. She also didnt receive diagnostic x-rays; didnt 
get sufficient treatment planning  nor did L make it clear to Ms D that pathology was clearly  
visible even though L was aware  of that.
Taking this into account, I believe there was a partial breach of contract for the supply of 
veneers. MBNA has already admitted this was the case. However where I disagree with 
MBNA is the remedy to be provided  to Ms D.
Ive subsequently reviewed the additional evidence and persuasive testimony given to us by 
Ms D. I appreciate the gravity of this issue for Ms D and Ive considered what shes sent us. 
Unfortunately it remains unclear whether  this evidence will mean the GDC will revisit her 
complaint or not. I note the GDC has never  completed an examination  of Ms Ds teeth whilst 
obviously the expert evidence covers  the condition of her veneers and their viability in detail. 
I dont doubt the veracity  of whats been  shared. However the decision I made two months 
ago  based on the GDCs expertise  still stands. Of course Ms D will still be able to see 
whether her claim and any restitution will be awarded by the GDC.
I agree  MBNA should meet the cost of x-rays which Ms D paid for. This is £95.80 which  was 
paid on 5 January  2017. MBNA  will need  to add 8% simple interest a year to this amount.
MBNA offered £300 for the remaining breach of contract. I dont believe this is sufficient, nor 
is it clear how this was calculated. 
I have reviewed the breakdown of what Ms D was charged by L. Theres no separate  charge 
for the temporary veneers. I dont think its a stretch to believe the cost of this was subsumed 
into the individual 10 permanent veneers. These  were priced  at £750 each. I believe its fair 
and reasonable for MBNA to refund £75 per veneer which  is 10% of the overall price Ms D 
was being charged. This means MBNA will need to refund £750 to Ms D.
Ive also looked  at the course of this complaint.  This has been  a very arduous  period for 
Ms D. The original treatment being  complained about now started  more  than four years  ago. 
MBNA has been very insistent that they should wait for the outcome of the GDC. And based 
on what they agreed  compared to our original  assessment  I cant criticise this approach. 
Although I do believe  the waiting  for this to be concluded has added  to the distress caused  
to Ms D, I dont believe it would be fair to ask MBNA to compensate Ms D further.
Im sure Ms D will remain disappointed with this outcome.  If she doesnt wish to accept this, 
she can still pursue her dental  provider through the courts.
Ref: DRN11942424my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  MBNA  Limited  to pay Ms D:
£95.80 for the cost of x-rays  paid on 5 January 2017;
£750 for the partial breach of contract;  and
8% simple interest for the x-rays from 5 January 2017 until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 December  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1194242