K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny.co.uk lent him 
money that he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr S is represented in his complaint by a claims management company.
background 
Mr S took out five instalment  loans with Sunny between March  and November 2017. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ss complaint be upheld in part. She thought that 
Sunnys checks went far enough before agreeing  loans  one to four. And that based on the 
information that Mr S gave to Sunny these loans appeared affordable.
By loan five, the adjudicator thought that Sunny shouldve  tried to independently verify the 
financial information that Mr S had given. With better  checks, the adjudicator  thought Sunny 
wouldnt have agreed loan five.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny refund all interest  and charges that Mr S had paid 
on loan five, together with simple interest  at 8% on the refund. She asked it to remove  any 
negative information  about loan five from Mr Ss credit file.
Sunny hasnt responded to the adjudicators recommendation  so the complaint has come  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sunny was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether Mr S 
could afford  to pay back each loan. These  checks needed to be proportionate to things such 
as the amount he was borrowing, the length of the agreement  and his borrowing history. But 
there wasnt a set list of checks Sunny had to do.
loans one to four
When Mr S applied  for loans one to four, Sunny asked  for details of his income and 
expenses. It also carried out credit  checks.  
Mr S told Sunny  that his monthly income was around £1,350.  Mr S declared expenses  that 
ranged between  £200 and £450. Sunny also took account of the credit commitments that it 
could see on Mr Ss credit checks. 
Given the amount  that Mr S was due to repay each month on loans one to four, I think that 
Sunnys checks were proportionate. 
It was reasonable  of Sunny to rely on the information to decide that Mr S could afford the 
monthly repayments on each loan. It follows  that I dont uphold  this aspect of Mr Ss 
complaint.
Ref: DRN19235082loan five
By loan five, Mr S had been  borrowing regularly from Sunny. Mr S took on loan five while  
loan four continued to run. I think these factors shouldve alerted  Sunny to the possibility that 
Mr S might have become dependent on short term loans.
I consider that it wouldve  been reasonable to expect Sunny to independently  verify  the 
information Mr S had given about his finances. Sunny couldve done this in a variety  of ways. 
As I have Mr Ss bank  statements for the relevant  time, Ive used these to decide  what better 
checks wouldve shown.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think if Sunny had carried  out a proportionate  check  before loan 
five, it wouldve decided  that Mr S couldnt  afford  to take on further debt. Thats  because 
around loan five it wouldve seen that Mr S was gambling regularly.  He had spent more than 
£1,200 on gambling transactions in the month leading up to taking out loan five. This meant 
that together  with Mr Ss regular  outgoings, he didnt have enough disposable income to 
afford the combined  repayments on loans four and five.
If Sunny had been aware of Mr Ss gambling  problems, as a responsible lender, I dont think  
it wouldve  agreed to lend. 
Mr S has lost out so its fair that Sunny  pay him some compensation. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right, I require Elevate  Credit  International  Limited  trading as Sunny.Co.Uk  to:
Refund any interest and charges paid on loan five;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
Remove any negative  information recorded about loan five from Mr Ss credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1923508