K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Ms L says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms L said she was not made aware  the PPI was optional  and she felt pressured  to take 
it. Halifax has said it would have made the optional nature of the policy clear and would 
have got Ms Ls consent to add the policy. Where theres a dispute about what  
happened, I have to base  my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened  
taking into account all the evidence thats  available.
Halifax has given me a copy of the credit card application form. Ms Ls personal details 
have been pre-populated on the application  and the PPI has been selected.  From  what  
we know more generally about how Halifax sold PPI around this time I think its likely 
there would have been a conversation with the Halifax representative about PPI prior to 
the details being entered  on the application  and Ms L has signed the application so 
I think this reflected what she wanted. If she didnt want the PPI she could have 
questioned this at the time.  
Ms L has said she was pressured  into taking out this policy. Ive considered  this 
alongside what Halifax say happened  during this sale.  As this was a recommended sale I 
think its likely that the representative may have said that Ms L should  take the PPI but 
thats different  to saying she must  take it. And pressure is a subjective  area and what 
one person thinks is pressure another may not. So without stronger evidence of this I 
cant safely uphold on this basis. 
So overall I think Halifax made Ms L aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, 
and she agreed  to take the policy at the time.  
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms L so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms L has said but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN10662832This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms L paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Ms L back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Ms L now Ive issued my final decision,  if it hasnt 
done so already. 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1066283