K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1998. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. To keep things  simple in my decision, Ill just say FICL when Im referring  to the PPI 
seller or to FICL.
Mrs J is unhappy that PPI was added to her store card, saying that she did not ask for the 
policy to be taken out.
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On her behalf, Mrs Js representative  disagreed with these findings. It has reiterated that Mrs 
J was unaware that PPI had been added  to the card, and it has highlighted that she did not 
have to sign separately for the policy. The representative has stated that Mrs J was not 
given any information  about the policy. It considers  that she had no need for PPI due to her 
existing employee  benefits.
The representative has stated that if given information about the policy, Mrs J would not 
have taken it out. Her main reason for taking  out the card was to obtain discounts on store  
purchases.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Js complaint for the following reasons:
 Mrs J has stated  that she was not aware that she had taken out PPI on the card. 
Clearly I cant be certain about what exactly was discussed when the policy  was sold in 
store. I must  therefore reach a conclusion on this matter based on the weight of evidence  
provided. In addition I am mindful  that the sale took place over 20 years  ago, in my view 
making it more difficult to recall in detail.
On the credit agreement  that Mrs J signed when she took out the store card,  there is a 
section relating to the PPI. There is a tick next to a statement saying that the applicant  
wants PPI. Other  sections  of the form that related to other  options  available  were not 
selected by Mrs J. Overall, based  on the content of the store card application, in my view 
it is more likely than not that PPI was presented to Mrs J as an optional product,  and that 
she chose to take it out.
 FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. 
 I cant be sure whether  FICL  gave Mrs J sufficient information about the PPI to make 
an informed choice  about it. However Mrs J doesnt  appear to have been affected by 
any of the main things  the policy didnt cover. I have thought  carefully about the 
Ref: DRN19719132employee benefits that Mrs J says she was entitled  to when sold the policy.  I also note 
the comments made that Mrs J took out the card principally to obtain discounts  on 
purchases in store.  However, overall  I consider that the policy could have  been  useful to 
Mrs J if she wasnt  working due to disability or unemployment.
On balance my view is that better information  would not have led to Mrs J deciding  not 
to take out the policy. 
Although I appreciate Mrs J will be disappointed with my findings, my conclusion is that the 
policy was not mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1971913