K820x#14complaint
Miss K says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Miss K bought  the PPI at a meeting in May 2000  at the same  time as taking a store  card. 
Shes told us she was employed  at the time as a line operator  and was entitled to no pay, or 
only statutory pay, for sickness or redundancy. Shes also told us she didnt have  any other 
means with which  to pay her card if she couldnt work. 
The policy provided  cover  for disability  and unemployment, as well as life cover,  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It cost at the time £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. It offered to pay 15% of Miss Ks card balance for a successful claim for disability or 
unemployment. The life cover would, subject to its terms, clear  the card balance on death.  
The premium had to still be paid during a successful claim and attracted interest. The policy 
also provided purchase protection and price  protection. Miss K hasnt complained about this 
element of the insurance policy so I will not consider it further in this decision.  
Miss K at first told us of health  issues she had more than a decade  after the sale,  and of no 
others. She later told us of back pain she had in or around 2000 which, from what she says,  
wasnt treated by a doctor but for which she took painkillers  and missed  a week  of work. We 
asked Miss K for more detail on when  this took place. She hasnt been  able to give us more. 
Miss K has also told us of another  health issue she had six years before the sale, for which  
she was treated by a doctor but didnt miss any work.
Miss Ks representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf. Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Miss Ks representative says:
The information Miss K received was misleading. These  policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Miss K wouldnt have taken 
the policy and the complaint should  be upheld.  Miss Ks representatives believe there to 
be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
Ref: DRN19759872The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Miss K about 
the poor value;  and
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss K and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Miss K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ks. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ks complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN19759873The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
The General  Insurance  Standards Council (GISC)  published its General Insurance  Code for 
private customers in the month after this sale. This set out minimum standards of good 
practice for its members  to follow when selling insurance, including PPI, and started  to apply 
very shortly afterwards. With this in mind, and while not all intermediaries who sold PPI at 
the time were members of GISC, I consider this code indicative of the standards  of good  
practice expected  of intermediaries like AXA at the time of this sale.  
So Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what is 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Miss Ks case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. 
I note that under the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Ks complaint. 
Ref: DRN19759874key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Miss K with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether AXA gave  Miss K sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss K, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss K suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss K and 
AXA, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss K know  she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Miss K has said it was just included  as part 
of the package with her card and she had no interest in PPI. But her credit agreement had a 
separate box to sign if the PPI was wanted   and she signed  this box. Nothing above the 
box or elsewhere on the form says PPI had to be taken  or says Miss K had to sign the box 
for the PPI if she didnt  want the cover. Taking everything into account, I think  its more likely 
Miss K knew the PPI was optional and agreed  to take it without  undue  pressure. 
did AXA provide advice?
Both AXA and Miss K agree advice wasnt provided during this sale.  This means AXA didnt 
have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Miss K. Instead, it had to give her sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether  
to take the policy,  including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
AXA has provided us with Miss Ks credit agreement  showing PPI was selected. Ive also 
seen copy terms and conditions which I accept, on a balance of probabilities,  applied  to 
policies like Miss Ks. Looking at the information provided to Miss K at the time, I dont think  
AXA gave her the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take the policy. 
This sale took place  at a meeting. I dont know what AXA told Miss K about the PPI, but I 
think it unlikely she wouldve agreed to take it without having at least a broad understanding  
of the cover  it provided  i.e. life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think it 
unlikely Miss K wouldve thought it was free. Also, above the box she signed to take PPI, the 
Ref: DRN19759875credit agreement refers to a monthly  premium being debited. Elsewhere it says the cover is 
protection for the account payments if you are unable to work due to sickness, accident, 
unemployment or death  and refers to a cost of 1p per £1 of the monthly  balance.
But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Miss Ks attention  the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. I dont think it likely AXA did enough to do 
this. For example, I dont  think it likely the true cost of the policy  was made  clear  to Miss K, 
including the need to maintain premiums  during  a claim  or that payments would attract  
interest. In addition, its unlikely AXA adequately drew to her attention the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think AXA gave Miss K sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing her attention 
to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions  of the 
policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ks representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ks. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Miss Ks representative considers to be poor value.
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Miss K about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ks representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it unlikely a court would find that this extended  to the insurer having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss K has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Miss K? To what extent did she suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Miss K. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not she would have 
still taken the policy,  had AXA done things  properly. Miss K says she wouldnt  have  and 
believes I should presume  this to be the case given the significant  failings identified  above. 
Ref: DRN19759876As this was a non-advised sale, Miss K had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Miss K chose to take this policy. So I consider  that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Miss K thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Miss K has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss K ought reasonably  to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept AXA didnt  make clear the on-going  cost information. So while Miss K didnt  
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss K thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  Miss K knew  or should  have known  
about or for which  she had been advised or treated  by a medical practitioner in the 12 
months before the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Miss K 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Miss K be stopped  from doing 
her own or any similar job, and stopped  from doing  any paid work her experience,  
education or training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Miss K pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  was not as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss K from taking the policy. 
But the evidence  about Miss Ks circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. 
The policy wouldnt  have covered Miss K for time off work related to the health issue  shed 
had six years earlier. But she hadnt missed any work because  of it and, with all shes  said 
about it in mind, Ive nothing suggesting  she wouldve thought the issue or anything  related 
to it might make her miss work in future. Taking  everything into account, I dont think better  
information about this exclusion wouldve put Miss K off the PPI.
Also I havent seen evidence to suggest  Miss K wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions  she was in permanent employment, for example. Also,  what I have 
doesnt persuade  me Miss K suffered or had suffered from any other  health  issues  at the 
Ref: DRN19759877time of sale  some clearly happened  years  after the sale, and she wasnt  able to give detail 
about when the other  started. 
So, with all this in mind,  I think  Miss K still had some good reasons to take the policy.
If Miss K had known  she could only claim for disability if she were  not only stopped  from 
doing her own or any similar job but also stopped from doing any paid work her experience, 
education or training might reasonably qualify her to do, it might  have played into her 
thinking about what to do  and I accept it may have given her pause  for thought.  But, given 
Miss Ks circumstances and the limited other means  she had to make her card payments if 
she couldnt work, on balance I think she would have still been interested  in taking the cover.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss K 
might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  mightve  dissuaded some consumers in slightly  different circumstances 
to Miss K from taking  the policy, Miss K, in her circumstances, still had some good  reasons 
to take it.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Miss K wouldve  still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what  she thought she was 
getting and, aside from statutory benefits, she didnt have any other means  of making  her 
card payments if she couldnt work  due to accident, sickness or redundancy. And in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not she wouldve taken the PPI in any event.   
Miss Ks representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss K would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Miss K believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Ref: DRN19759878Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I do not consider, in this case, it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss K in the position she wouldve been  in had she not 
bought the PPI. That is because, while I accept its possible  she would not have taken the 
PPI, Im satisfied that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely than not she wouldve still taken 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude AXA should pay Miss K compensation, as that would put her in a better position 
than she would have  been in had everything happened as it should have.
Im also aware Miss K thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it described 
the PPI.  While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of AXAs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Miss K, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ks representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find AXA negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss K and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that AXA had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss K in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1975987