K821x#15Complaint
Miss C complains that Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited (trading  as Very) didnt set 
out its Buy Now Pay Later offer (BNPL) clearly and this led her to believe that shed pay 
less interest than she was asked  to. Shes  also unhappy that deferred interest on her 
purchases led to her breaching the credit  limit on her account.
Background
Miss C successfully applied for a Very catalogue shopping account in September 2017. She 
then placed two orders on BNPL terms. In essence,  the BNPL terms operated in a way 
which meant that Very would waive  all of the interest  accrued on items purchased as long as 
Miss C paid the full amount owed by her September 2018 statement.  
Miss C made a number  of payments leading up to August 2018. As I understand it, these 
payments werent  enough to clear the BNPL amount and even then some  of the payments 
werent allocated  to these balances  because  Miss C didnt specify  thats how she wanted her 
payment to be allocated.  As a result  of the balances  not being  cleared in time all of the 
interest that had accrued during the entire  BNPL period was added to Miss Cs account  in 
September 2018 and this took the account  over its credit limit. Miss C says that this is unfair 
as the terms and conditions werent made  clear  to her.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Miss Cs complaint and thought that it should be upheld in 
part and some of the interest added to Miss Cs account should  be refunded. Very disagreed 
with our adjudicator  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  it appears to me that Very has calculated 
the interest due on the item in line with the terms and conditions of Miss Cs agreement. That 
said, Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss Cs 
case not just whether  Very has acted in accordance with the terms and conditions  of the 
account. 
And, in deciding whether Very acted fairly and reasonably towards  Miss C, Im mindful that 
CONC 4.2.5R requires  a lender to provide an adequate explanation  of an agreement  in 
order to place the consumer in a position  to assess whether  the agreement  is right for their 
needs and financial  situation. The matters to take into account include the features of the 
agreement which may make it unsuitable for particular type of use and the features of the 
agreement which would  have a significant  adverse effect on the customer in a way which 
theyre unlikely to foresee. 
CONC 4.2.7G also lists factors a lender should  take into account when deciding the level 
and extent of an explanation. These factors, amongst other things, include the type of credit,  
the amount and duration and the actual and potential costs.
Ref: DRN19532862In this case, the terms and conditions of Miss Cs account meant that shed be liable for all of 
the interest accrued during the BNPL period if she didnt pay the whole  balance  associated 
with her September 2017 purchases  by the time of her September  2018 statement. Given  
the purchase amounts of the items  Miss C bought  and the significant  amount of the interest 
that would  be added  I think that this was important information that should  have been 
brought to Miss Cs attention in a clear, fair and not misleading way. 
 
So I think that the key question here for me to consider in order  to fairly and reasonably 
decide Miss Cs complaint  is, did Very adequately explain to Miss C, in a clear  fair and not 
misleading way that all of the interest  accrued on his purchases would be added to her 
account if she didnt  pay off the balances  in full by the time of her September 2018 
statement? 
Did Very adequately  explain  to Miss C, in a clear fair and not misleading way that all of the 
interest accrued  on her purchases would be due if she didnt pay off the balances  in full by 
the time of her August  2018 statement?
Very says that Miss C was aware  of the terms and conditions of the offer at the time of 
purchase and that she ought to have known that all of the interest  accrued  would  be due if 
she didnt pay the outstanding balances  in full. It relies on the explanation set out below 
provided, within the terms and conditions, as evidence  of it having met its obligations to 
explain the terms and conditions of the BNPL offer.  
If you don't  want to pay interest on either offer, you must pay the full price of the relevant 
transaction and notify us that you are making  payment specifically on your BNPL 
transaction. You can do this by targeting a payment  online through My Account or contacting 
us on 03448 222 321*. The payment must clear the BNPL  transaction  in full by the due date 
shown on your statement.  
Ive carefully thought  about what Very has said. 
I want to start by saying  that whether the paragraph  Very has referred  to ought reasonably  to 
have led Miss C to understand that he had to repay  her balances in full in order to derive any 
benefit from the BNPL offer, depends not only on the content  of the information, but when it 
was provided and its prominence within the overall documentation given to her.
Very has relied on a paragraph  from the terms and conditions it says Miss C would have 
seen and accepted (presumably by ticking a box to do so) but it hasnt provided all of the 
information presented.  So I dont know how prominent this paragraph was or is within the 
overall suite of documentation Miss C would  have seen. And there doesnt appear to any 
warning about  the importance of reading  this information. Equally Ive not seen  anything  to 
suggest that Miss C would have had to have  actually  read the information before she 
confirmed this either. This is especially the case bearing in mind the speed at which  this 
whole process is likely to have taken place.
In any event, leaving aside my concerns about whether this paragraph was prominent  
enough, I dont  think that it sets out the position as clearly as Very has made out either. It 
does tell Miss C that if she doesnt  want to pay interest she must pay the full price of her 
purchases. But it doesnt say anything about  how a partial payment will be treated and most 
crucially it doesnt make  it clear that all of the interest accrued during the BNPL  period will be 
due should a full payment not be made   even  if the addition of this interest takes  her over 
her credit limit. 
Ref: DRN19532863By simply  referring  to interest a reader  of this information could, in my opinion  quite 
reasonably, reach the conclusion that theyd have to pay interest on the remaining balance, 
rather than all of the interest accrued during the period of the offer. Bearing in mind the 
amount of Miss Cs purchases,  her being  sent account statements every  28 days (thus  
increasing the likelihood of partial  payments being made)  and significant  amount of the extra  
shed have to pay should she fail to clear the balances  in full, I think  that the position  in 
relation to partial payments  should  have been  made  much clearer.       
So while Ive carefully thought about what Very has said, I dont think  that it did adequately 
explain to Miss C, in a clear fair and not misleading  way that all of the interest  accrued on 
her purchases would be due if she didnt pay off the balance in full by the time of her 
September 2018 statement. 
Did Miss C lose out as a result of Verys failure  to adequately explain,  in a clear  fair and not 
misleading way, that all of the interest  accrued on her purchases would be due if she didnt 
pay off the balances in full by the time of her September 2018 statement?
Even though  I think that Very didnt adequately explain to Miss C, in a clear fair and not 
misleading way, that all of the interest  accrued on her purchases would be due if she didnt 
pay off the balance in full by the time of her September 2018 statement,  it doesnt  
automatically follow that Miss Cs complaint should  be upheld.  Thats  because  I still need to 
consider whether Miss C lost out as a result  of Verys failure to provide adequate information 
to her. In other words,  I need to consider whether Miss C would have acted differently if Very 
had met its obligations to her.
Ive carefully considered  what I think would more likely than not have happened  if Very had 
met its obligations to Miss C  in light of Miss Cs actions.
Ive reviewed Miss Cs repayment  record. While Miss C has said she thought that making  the 
payments she did would mean shed pay no interest  at all, I think that she would have known  
that shed have to at least pay interest on the remaining amount she owed should the balances 
not have been cleared in full. Miss Cs payments were nowhere near enough to be able to clear 
the balances.  So, in these circumstances, Im not persuaded  by Miss Cs argument that she 
thought she was making enough payments to ensure she paid no interest at all.
That said,  I do think that Miss C was reasonably entitled to believe that Very wouldnt let her 
purchases take her over credit limit  even where  interest might  later be added.  After  all by 
adding the interest  to the balance Very was lending her these funds and it had said that it 
was only prepared to lend her a certain amount  that being the amount of her credit limit.  
Equally as Miss C made some payments too, I think that she had even more reason to be 
surprised that her credit limit had been  exceeded when the interest  for her BNPL purchases  
were added to her account.  Ive said that Miss Cs payments werent anywhere near enough 
to ensure that the BNPL purchase  amounts would be repaid in full by the due date. But I do 
think that she wasnt that far off having paid enough  to remain  within her credit  limit. And, in 
these circumstances,  I do think that Miss C would  have ensured that she paid enough to 
remain within her credit limit had Very made things as clear as it should  have done.
So Im satisfied that Miss C has had extra  interest  and over limit charges  added to her account 
because of Verys  failure  to meet  its obligation  to adequately explain the terms of her BNPL 
offers to her. And it follows  that I think Miss C lost out because of what  Very did wrong.
Ref: DRN19532864Fair compensation  what  Very needs to do to put things right for Miss  C
I think that Very should as far as practicable place Miss C in the position that shed now be in 
had things not have gone wrong. Ive already  explained that I think that Miss C would more  
likely than not have  paid the extra to ensure  that she didnt  exceed  her credit limit when all the 
interest for her BNPL purchases were added, if things had gone as they should have done.
In these circumstances, I think that a refund  of the interest took Miss C over her credit limit is 
the fairest way to put things right for Miss C. So Very should rework Miss Cs account 
reflecting the fact that the interest which took Miss C over her credit limit shouldnt  have been 
added to the account. In other  words,  Very should remove the effect of the interest which  took 
Miss C over her credit limit from the account  and refund any overlimit fees charged.
If the reworked account  balance  shows that Miss C would have been in credit then the extra  
she paid should  be treated as an overpayment and refunded to her. Very should  add interest 
at 8% simple per annum to any overpayment  from the date that it was made to the date of 
settlement*.
Finally Very should also remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit  file as 
a result of her credit limit being exceeded  in September  2018.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Very to take off tax from this interest. It must give Miss C 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.   
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited  (trading  as Very) should put things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1953286