K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs  administration of her mortgage. She says 
because of delays  in applying a product switch it overcharged her. Shed like the 
overpayment refunded and compensation.
background
Ms H has a buy to let mortgage with Barclays. Her mortgage product ended in October 2018 
and she wanted  to take out a new product. Ms H says Barclays  caused delays and made 
errors. Ms H was expecting  her contractual monthly  payment  in December 2018 to be about 
£480. She says Barclays wrongly took about  £1,580. 
Barclays said it had made an error  and corrected it with a credit to Ms Hs account.  It also 
offered compensation for the upset caused. Ms H wasnt  happy  about this. She said 
Barclays should return the money to her. 
After the complaint came to us, Barclays  reviewed Ms Hs account  again. It said the product 
switch took effect  on 3 December 2018, so the payment in December included  interest  at its 
standard variable  rate (SVR) up to 2 December 2018. It said the amount  taken  was correct. 
The credit to Ms Hs account  in January  2019 was to correct a different error.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said having 
looked at the evidence  from both parties  the payment in December  appeared correct.  
Barclays did have problems with payments  after this, which meant  Ms H had to make  
manual payments. She made small overpayments in January and February 2019, which 
Barclays said its happy to refund. 
Ms H didnt agree. She said Barclays had said it would apply the lower  interest  rate to the 
payment due in December. So it shouldnt  have taken the larger  payment. Ms Hs mortgage 
broker also wrote  to us, saying Barclays systems caused delays and it told him that it would 
refund the additional interest.  Barclays says it has no record of this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
The parties dont  agree about what happened  in late 2018. Ms Hs broker  says he tried to 
apply for a product switch on Ms Hs behalf  in October 2018. He says this was delayed  
because of problems  with Barclays systems.  The broker said Barclays  confirmed to him that 
it would  refund the difference between interest  at the SVR and the product rate. 
Barclays says it didnt  receive an application for Ms H until 20 November 2018. It says it has 
no record of an attempted  application for Ms H in October or that it told the broker  it would 
refund interest.  Lloyds  also said it was unlikely there was a problem with its systems that 
would have delayed  the application for the amount of time suggested by the broker.  
Ref: DRN11960082The broker  says he isnt able to provide evidence to support what  hed said. On balance, I 
dont think I can fairly  find that Ms H was unable to apply for a product switch before 20 
November 2018  due to errors by Barclays or problems  with its systems. Or that Barclays 
offered an interest  refund as a result.
Based on the available evidence, I think an application for a product switch was made on 20 
November 2018.  The switch took effect  on 3 December 2018.  So the contractual  monthly 
payment for December  correctly included interest  at Barclays  SVR up to 2 December 2018.
However, Barclays did make errors  after this. It applied  incorrect  interest amounts to Ms Hs 
account in January and February  2019,  which it later corrected. The corrections were made 
by applying credit  interest adjustments  to Ms Hs account, including £1,105 in January and 
£231 in June 2019.
Barclays also had problems collecting payments by direct debit in early 2019  and Ms H had 
to make manual  payments. Her payments were different by a small amount from the amount 
due. In total, she overpaid by about  £45. Barclays says it is happy to refund this amount to 
Ms H. Ms H should let Barclays know if shed  like this.
Barclays made errors with the interest calculations in January and February 2019 and in 
collecting direct  debits.  The problem  with the direct  debits continued for some months. And I 
think Barclays should have given Ms H a clear  and correct explanation for the credit interest 
adjustment in January 2019 at the outset.  
Barclays offered £200 compensation for the upset caused by its poor service in relation to 
the mortgage payments. I appreciate this matter has gone on for some time. But Ive also 
taken into account  that Ms Hs main concern was that Barclays had made an error  with the 
contractual monthly payment  in December 2018 (which, based on the available  evidence, I 
find wasnt the case). In the circumstances, I think the compensation offered by Barclays  is 
fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I think  the compensation offered by 
Barclays Bank UK Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1196008