K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the service she received from UK Financial Consultants  Ltd (UKFC) 
and its adviser. Mrs C says this caused her a financial loss, distress  and inconvenience.
background
Mrs C wanted some advice about  her pensions, so in July 2016 she messaged an 
acquaintance she knew to be a financial adviser.  Mrs C met the adviser, who Ill call Mr D, in 
August 2016 to complete  a fact find and sign an agreement with the business  Mr D worked 
for, UKFC.  
In September  2016 Mr D prepared a suitability report. The report explained why hed 
recommended that Mrs C transfer  three  pension funds into a cash  fund, intended as a short-
term measure so Mrs C could purchase a buy to let property  in the near future.
By December 2016 Mrs Cs pension funds had been  transferred  to the cash fund. Later that 
month Mr D left UKFCs employment, though Mrs C says she wasnt aware  of this. 
Mrs C says she spoke to Mr D in early  2017  and they agreed to move her cash  fund into a 
different investment. Over  the next year or so she called and messaged Mr D several times 
about arranging  this investment. And she says she asked a mutual acquaintance to speak to 
Mr D on her behalf. Mrs C says Mr D didnt  respond  to her messages, except for one in 
which he said he would call Mrs C but then didnt. 
So in December 2017 Mrs C asked her cash fund provider to remove  Mr D as her adviser, 
which it did on 6 January 2018.  This meant UKFC was no longer listed  either.  In March 2018 
Mrs C again contacted the fund provider. It directed her to Mr Ds new employer, who in turn 
referred her to UKFC. 
At around the same time Mr D asked  UKFC to get in touch with Mrs C as she wanted  to 
make an investment. UKFC got in touch and Mrs C explained why she was unhappy. In 
summary she said that:
Mr D hadnt actioned  her investment request  or responded to her messages
neither Mr D or UKFC told her Mr D had left UKFCs employment
shed been  paying for an ongoing service she hadnt received
To put things right, Mrs C wanted UKFC to compensate her for her lost investment, refund  
its initial and ongoing  fees, arrange her investment and service  her account free of charge.
UKFC initially offered to refund 12 months  of adviser  fees as a goodwill gesture, but soon 
after it withdrew this offer.  In its final response  to Mrs Cs complaint, UKFC said it couldnt 
comment on what Mr D had done  after leaving UKFC. It said Mrs C should have contacted 
UKFC when she wanted to change her investment, but she hadnt. And it said it hadnt acted 
outside the terms it had agreed with Mrs C. 
Mrs C was still unhappy so she asked our service  to investigate.  Our investigator  said she 
didnt think UKFC was obliged to tell Mrs C that Mr D had left. And she thought that Mrs C 
removing Mr D as the adviser on her cash fund had prevented UKFC contacting her. The 
investigator also didnt  think it wasnt unreasonable for UKFC to say it couldnt comment on 
Ref: DRN17826142Mr Ds actions after leaving UKFC. And she said that UKFC hadnt failed to provide a service 
and so didnt need to refund any charges.
Mrs C didnt agree so her complaint has been passed to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I realise  this will be a disappointment to Mrs C, so Ill explain my reasons by 
addressing what  I see to be the key points of her complaint. 
Mr D hadnt actioned her investment request  or responded to her messages
Mrs C has provided screenshots of her messages to Mr D. Based on these, by April 2017 
Mrs C wanted to move her money  from the cash fund to another  investment. Mrs C says 
Mr D didnt action this for her or respond  to her messages  at this time.
I know Mrs C says that at this point she didnt know  Mr D had left the employment  of UKFC, 
and its unfortunate  he didnt  respond  to her messages. But I dont think  UKFC was able to 
monitor or control Mr Ds actions by then,  as it hadnt been his employer for several  months 
and Mrs C seems  to have been  contacting Mr D through his personal  social  media account. 
And I dont  think UKFC was aware Mrs C wanted to do something different with her cash  
funds at this time, as its not in dispute  that Mrs C didnt contact it until about a year later. So 
in this case I dont  think it would be fair to hold UKFC responsible for Mr D not arranging her 
investment or responding to her messages. Ultimately had Mrs C contacted  UKFC directly  to 
discuss moving her funds, it would have  been  able to action her request.
Mrs C has also asked our service to look into Mr D giving false information when transferring 
her pension funds. She says that in an authority and discharge form she signed, Mr D 
incorrectly ticked a box that says Please tick this box if you received  free impartial advice 
from the Government Guidance Services. 
Mrs C signed the form just below this ticked box, so if it had been incorrectly ticked I would 
have expected her to not sign the form and to query this with Mr D. But she says she did 
sign the form, so I think its more likely than not that Mrs C did receive free impartial advice 
or at least  was aware she had the opportunity to do so. Even if the box was incorrectly ticked 
by Mr D, I dont  think  Mrs C was disadvantaged as she was still able to access  her pension  
funds in line with her wishes. 
neither Mr D or UKFC told her Mr D had left UKFCs employment
Its not in dispute  that Mrs C wasnt told Mr D had left UKFC. But Mrs C says someone 
should have told her. For its part UKFC says its not obliged to tell customers  when  an 
adviser leaves, but that it would have contacted Mrs C after 12 months but couldnt because 
shed removed it as the adviser  on her cash fund. Mrs C says UKFC had the opportunity to 
contact her before she removed it.
Ive looked at the services and payments agreement between  UKFC and Mrs C. It was 
signed by Mrs C on 8 August  2016  and sets out what service she could expect to receive. 
Ref: DRN17826143UKFC says Mrs C was receiving its basic  service, which is supported  by the fees she paid 
and which  Ill return to later. The agreement says a basic service provides:
Type of service; Basic
 Ongoing  technology
 Telephone/email services
 Up to date statements, administration and reports where requested.
 Direct access  to an adviser
 Our offices are open Monday to Friday between the hours of 9 30am and 4 00pm.
Based on this, UKFC was available to Mrs C if she chose to contact it and would only send 
her statements,  administration and reports if she asked  for them.  In other  words,  it wasnt  
obliged to tell her the adviser had left and it wasnt obliged to contact her for an annual  
review. 
Mrs C says she didnt know Mr D was employed by UKFC, so she couldnt  contact it. And 
she says that while  she did sign documents, none  were left with her or sent to her later. 
The suitability report prepared on 27 September 2016 says Mrs C was left with copies of 
guide to our services, service and payment agreement, data protection statement and 
attitude to investment risk questionnaire.  It also says Mrs C should contact UKFC if she has 
any concerns with her fund choice, and that shed confirmed she was happy  to proceed 
under that arrangement.
So I think it was for Mrs C to contact UKFC. Even if I accept that Mrs C didnt receive any 
documents, Ive seen  she was able to track down UKFC quite quickly after contacting her 
cash fund provider so I think she could have done  this sooner if shed chosen to. 
In any case, Mrs C says she signed  the services and payment agreement  and Im satisfied  
that it, along with the other  documents,  make it clear that her contract was with UKFC and 
not Mr D. Therefore Mrs C was always a customer of UKFC, and not a customer of Mr D.
shed been paying for a service she hadnt received
Mrs Cs agreement with UKFC gave her access to an adviser, statements and reports,  if she 
asked for them.  Mrs C didnt ask it for any of these things as she says she was still trying  to 
contact Mr D. But nonetheless, Im satisfied UKFCs services were  still available  to her. 
UKFC was entitled  to charge Mrs C for its services  but it had to do so in Iine with their 
agreement. So Ive checked to see whether  it did this.
The agreement says UKFC  should  have charged  Mrs C an initial  fee of 2% of her 
investment, and an ongoing  fee of 0.5%. From Mrs Cs description  of what  shes paid I think 
UKFC has charged her in line with the agreement, so I wont  be asking it to refund anything. 
UKFC did offer to refund some fees to Mrs C as a gesture  of goodwill, but then withdrew that 
offer. UKFC can choose to make such a gesture of goodwill,  but its not obliged to. And as I 
dont think UKFC has done anything wrong,  Im not going to ask it to reinstate this offer.
Ref: DRN17826144my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1782614