K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) hasnt paid him appropriate 
compensation when there have been  failings in the service its provided. 
background
Mr C has raised  a number of complaints about the service hes received  from BG, who 
provides home assistance cover to his own property and to rental  properties  that he owns.  
Hes made  three specific complaints.
The first complaint relates to one of Mr Cs rental properties. He needed to arrange for an 
annual service for the boiler and central heating system at this property. He initially had 
difficulty in making an appointment, and then when  one had been made,  BGs  engineer  
didnt turn up.
Mr C says BG initially offered him £70 compensation which  he said he wasnt  willing to 
accept. Mr C says that BG then said in a telephone call on 23 November 2018 that it would 
exceptionally increase its offer to £150. Mr C believes  this amount was agreed, but BG only 
paid him £100.  Mr C doesnt wish to continue to argue for £150, but thinks  this payment of 
£100 should be used as a benchmark.
Mr Cs second complaint relates  to his own property. An appointment for an annual service  
was made  for 24 November 2018. But again,  BGs  engineer didnt  turn up. A new 
appointment was arranged  for within a week. BG offered him £50 compensation. Mr C said 
he wasnt happy with this but BG wouldnt increase its offer and made  a payment of £50. Mr 
C believes this should be increased to £100, in line with the first payment he received.
Mr Cs third complaint relates to the same  rental  property as the first complaint. In January 
2019 Mr C called BG to deal with a leak from the boiler that BG had serviced  in November. 
The property had no heating  or hot water. He again  had difficulties in getting hold of BG and 
when he did, they initially said they werent able to offer an appointment for a number of 
days. After Mr C complained about  this, an appointment was brought forward to the next 
day, although an engineer  was able to visit that same evening.  BG offered Mr C £20 
compensation for this, which again  he has rejected on the same basis as before. He wants a 
further £80.
So Mr Cs specific  complaints relate to the levels of compensation offered  and paid to him for 
failed appointments  and generally for the difficulties that hes had had in making these in the 
first place.
Mr C has also made  a number of more general  complaints. Hes not happy that BGs annual 
services arent taking place each  year,  and he thinks theyre insufficiently thorough. He 
argues that these  should be annual, and not either early  or late, as this can leave a big gap 
between services. A late service also impacts  on his gas safety certificate  which hes 
required to have as a landlord.  He also complains that correspondence from BG isnt clearly 
marked with the property to which it relates. 
Ive looked at what BGs records show in relation to his specific  complaints.
In relation to the first complaint, they show that BG had no record of any incoming calls in 
relation to the rental property although  Mr C says calls were in fact made  by his tenants, and 
that BG had incorrectly told them that only the landlord could book appointments. BG 
Ref: DRN18191212checked whether  Mr Cs agents had phoned, but also had no record of any calls from them.  
It thought Mr C would feel that his agents werent  telling  him the truth,  so the record shows  
that it offered  him compensation.
BG checked the phone  call in which compensation was discussed. The note of this says that 
at the end of the call BG offered Mr C £70. In response, he apparently said that hed be 
happy to close  the matter  for £100,  so BG paid him this sum. 
In relation to the second complaint, BGs records show that there was a system problem at 
their end which meant that the engineer wasnt able to contact Mr C. He was offered another 
appointment but this was some weeks ahead. When Mr C complained, an appointment was 
brought forward to within seven  days,  which apparently Mr C was satisfied with. 
BG offered him £50 compensation  for the inconvenience  for the missed  appointment, and for 
having the inconvenience of having to have  another appointment.  BGs records show that Mr 
C accepted this under duress although he mentioned that hed been told that if an 
appointment was missed  again hed receive  £100.
In relation to the third complaint, BGs records show that Mr C told it hed been trying  to 
arrange an appointment on line for hours but the system wasnt  working. He spoke to a 
manager who offered  an appointment  for the following day, but an engineer actually called 
that same  evening. It offered him £20 for the inconvenience of not being able to contact BG.
As Mr C wasnt happy with BGs responses  to his specific  complaints, hes brought  his 
complaint to this service.  Our investigators  view was that what  BG had offered Mr C in the 
way of compensation for his trouble and upset was fair and reasonable.
Mr C doesnt agree with out investigators  view.  In particular, he told our investigator  that the 
leak that he had to call BG about  in his rental property in January 2019  shouldve been 
noticed by BGs engineer when doing  the annual  service two months before. Hes asked that 
his complaints be considered by an ombudsman, so theyve been referred to me to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr Cs complaints 
and Ill explain why not.
Mr C has made a number of complaints about BG and the service hes received  from it. 
Some of these are specific and detailed, and others are generalised. Whatever  the merits of 
the generalised complaints, I cant address them in the abstract. I have to confine my 
decision to the three  specific  complaints hes made which relate to the compensation hes 
been offered by BG for various service  failings hes experienced. Ill consider  each  one in 
turn.
Mr Cs first complaint is that BG only paid him £100  compensation for its failure to turn up for 
an appointment when he says that he was offered £150. BGs records, though, dont  make  
any reference to this. Ive seen  a note made of the telephone call recording in which  
compensation was discussed. It refers to an initial offer of £70 which was then increased to 
£100. Theres no record of any offer of £150. So I dont think  theres  enough evidence  to 
support what Mr C has said. But Mr C isnt pursuing this, and I believe hes accepted  £100  
on the basis that it provides a benchmark or precedent for any similar  complaints.
Ref: DRN18191213His second complaint  is just such a similar complaint.  He was offered £50 compensation for 
his inconvenience  when BGs  engineer didnt turn up for an appointment at his own house.  
Another appointment was offered shortly afterwards which  Mr C appeared to find 
satisfactory.
In these circumstances I dont think that £50 is unfair compensation. It would be in line with 
the level of compensation this service would  require a business  to pay unless there  was 
particular hardship  arising, for example a vulnerable customer left for a number  of days with 
no hot water  or heating. 
Turning to Mr Cs third complaint, although Mr C had some difficulty  in making this 
appointment, a BG engineer did come within a very short time. So again,  I dont  feel that £20 
is unfair in these circumstances.
Mr C also complains that the leak that prompted the call out in January shouldve been  
noticed by BGs engineer when the boiler was serviced two months earlier.  He relies on the 
resulting staining  to support his belief that the leak was an old one. I cant however regard 
that as sufficient evidence to support a finding  that the leak was definitely present at the time 
of the annual service  the previous November, and wouldve been obvious to BGs  engineer  
then. So I cant make a finding that BGs  engineer was negligent and increase  the award of 
compensation on that ground.
Overall, Mr C has experienced some poor service from BG. Hes suffered frustration and 
inconvenience, and some additional  cost.  Ive heard his telephone conversations with our 
investigator, so Im aware why he feels he should  receive more  in the way of compensation.
But our awards of compensation cant take into account the value that different people  place 
on their time. Nor is it reasonable that every  inconvenience  that a customer experiences, or 
extra cost that they might incur, should  be fully compensated for. Mr C feels  that the 
compensation of £100 he received in relation to his first complaint should  be applied  to his 
other similar complaints, effectively creating a benchmark. But each situation needs to be 
considered on its own merits.  Situations differ, and the impact  of the same mistake in 
different circumstances can cause different levels of distress and inconvenience, and merit 
different levels  of compensation.
BG has recognised that its service fell short  on these three  specific occasions and that Mr C 
has suffered inconvenience. Its paid him a total of £170 to compensate for this, and this 
should contribute towards the costs he says hes incurred because of BGs poor service.
In the circumstances, I dont think what BG has paid Mr C is unfair or unreasonable.  Im 
therefore not going to ask it to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not going to uphold Mr Cs complaints.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019. 
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1819121