K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc passed her debt to a collections 
agency, contrary to a recommendation by the Financial Ombudsman  Service that it should 
not do so, and without telling her. She also complains that NatWest failed to properly reply  to 
her solicitors letters about this matter,  and that NatWest sent her some  statements in an 
insecure fashion  and without an explanation.
background
In early 2017 Ms H complained to NatWest that it was calculating  her outstanding loan 
balance incorrectly. This complaint was dealt with by our Service, and in June 2017 one of 
our adjudicators upheld  part of her complaint. Among  other  things, he recommended  that 
NatWest keep the loan in-house and not send it to a collections agency.  Ms H asked for an 
ombudsman to review  that case,  and in September 2017 an ombudsman issued a final 
decision. Ms H now complains that in 2018, NatWest passed her debt to a collections 
agency, contrary to what the adjudicator had recommended. She also says she was not 
notified.
Ms H instructed a solicitor to deal with NatWest on her behalf.  She complains that NatWests 
replies were standard template letters which did not address the matters raised. NatWest 
denies this, and says the letters were tailored to her case. It says it wrote  to her to tell her 
that her account had been sent to an agency,  and that the ombudsman in the previous 
complaint had not recommended  that NatWest keep the debt in-house, nor had Ms H 
accepted the ombudsmans final decision,  and so the adjudicators  recommendation had 
been superseded by these events.
Ms H also complained that she had been  sent a large bundle  of statements without a 
covering letter and in a flimsy envelope which had ripped  open,  exposing the contents, which 
might potentially have  been viewed by strangers. She said this caused her some  distress 
and anxiety. NatWest  told us it had sent the statements  to the collections agency, which  had 
then sent them on to Ms H. So it did not accept responsibility for the agencys choice of 
envelope.
One of our investigators  considered this complaint,1 but she did not uphold  it. She thought 
NatWest had been entitled to pass the debt to a collections agency. She couldnt conclude  
that the ripped envelope had been  NatWests fault,  or that anyone had seen the contents.  
She didnt  think any inconvenience had been caused by NatWests letters to Ms Hs solicitor.
Ms H did not agree.  She said NatWest  should be responsible for what the agency did. She 
asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1 Some further complaint  points  have  not been  addressed because we have considered them  before.
Ref: DRN12124292the collections agency
I have read the decisions of the adjudicator and the ombudsman in the original complaint. 
Ms Hs complaint was that her loan account  balance was not decreasing in line with her 
repayments. The adjudicator realised that this was because the balance on her loan account 
had been frozen ever since  she had entered a repayment plan, and her payments towards 
the loan were being recorded against another  account instead  (the select  account). He 
explained that if Ms H wanted to know her loan balance, she could calculate it by subtracting 
the select account balance from the frozen  loan account  balance.  But in order to keep this 
simple for Ms H, he recommended  that NatWest retain the debt and not send it to a 
collections agency.
That complaint was escalated to an ombudsman,  which meant that the ombudsmans  
decision replaced and superseded the adjudicators opinion. The ombudsman  did not think  it 
was necessary to make  that recommendation, and so it does not appear in his final decision. 
Ms H did not accept the ombudsmans decision,  and so neither party  was bound by it, but 
that did not have the effect  of restoring the adjudicators opinion. Rather, it meant that 
NatWest was not bound by what  either of my colleagues had said. In particular, it was not 
bound by the recommendation to keep the debt in-house.
Nevertheless, I have still thought about whether NatWest was wrong to involve a collections 
agency, having regard to the reason why our adjudicator said that it should not. There  was 
nothing to stop NatWest  passing the debt to an agency, but NatWest has a duty under 
regulations to have  regard  to its customers interests  and treat them  fairly. So I have 
considered whether NatWest contravened that requirement.
However, I dont think there  was any real inconvenience caused  to Ms H by NatWest  doing  
that. Our adjudicator had already explained  to her why her outstanding balance had 
appeared to not be changing,  and how to find out how much she still owed, and she was not 
prevented from continuing  to do that. (Indeed, its likely that the collections agency has 
presented the outstanding balance more transparently than NatWest did, although I havent 
seen their statements.) So I dont think NatWest was wrong  to refer the debt to an agency.
I have seen a record of NatWest sending Ms H a letter on 6 August 2018  telling her that the 
debt was being sent to a collections agency,  and it was sent to the correct  address, so 
I dont uphold her complaint about not being told about this. I accept that she didnt receive 
the letter, but if it was lost in the post then that is not NatWests fault. I think the bank was 
entitled to use normal post and that it did not have  to send  this by recorded delivery.
the banks letters to the solicitor
NatWest sent Ms H its final response  to her complaint  in May 2018, in which  it set out its 
response to each of the matter she had raised, and told her about her right to complain to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. Ms Hs solicitor wrote to NatWest  in July and September 
to ask the bank  to re-investigate her complaint and review its stance. Each  time,  NatWest 
replied to Ms H at her solicitors address, repeating  that she had the right to bring her 
complaint to our Service if she was not satisfied with the outcome of the banks review of her 
complaint.
I have read both of those  letters, and they certainly  are template letters.  I dont  agree that 
they have been tailored to Ms Hs particular case. Nevertheless, I think that was entirely  
proper. The bank  was not obliged to engage in further correspondence with Ms H or with 
Ref: DRN12124293anyone acting on her behalf, nor did it have to investigate her complaint again.  Under  the 
relevant rules made by the Financial Conduct  Authority, the bank had done all it was obliged 
to do, and if Ms H remained dissatisfied then her next step was to come to us. So I dont 
uphold her complaint  about that.
the statements in the damaged envelope
I dont think it matters  that the statements  were  sent without a covering letter,  because  it was 
self-evident what they were. Ms H had asked for some statements, and although the ones 
which were sent covered  a broader  period of time than she had asked for, it wouldnt have 
taken her long to identify  the ones she wanted.
I think the real significance of the number of statements  is that (as Ms H says) they needed 
to be sent in a stronger  envelope than the one which was used. Its unfortunate that they 
were sent in an envelope which was damaged  in transit, but I think that is more  likely to be 
the collection agencys fault than the banks. The collections agency asked the bank to send 
them to it, which the bank did. I infer that the collections  agency  opened  the envelope sent to 
it by the bank, because that is what they did with some other  statements the bank had sent it 
earlier. (I know  that because the collections  agency replied to NatWest  to say that the 
statements it had sent were in the joint names  of Ms H and her former husband, who had 
once been a joint account holder, and asking  for permission to share  his personal data with 
her.) So its likely that the collections agency then put the statements in a new envelope,  
which is the one which was torn. I cant hold the bank  responsible  for that.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2020.  But we will not engage in any further  
discussion about the merits of this complaint.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1212429