K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that when  he took out public  liability insurance through  Moneywise 
Investments Plc, the policy sold to him didnt provide the cover  he needed.
background
Mr P was carrying  out buildings work and as part of this, he needed to connect  to the main 
water sewer.  He already  had insurance in place but emailed Moneywise to say that  due to 
the local councils  requirements  he needed to increase his public liability insurance  to 
£10m for a short period while the work  was being done.
Moneywise contacted a wholesale  broker who found  a policy  with another  insurer (not the 
same insurer  that provided Mr Ps existing cover). Moneywise then emailed Mr P to say 
cover would be in place for the required period for an extra  £8m over the existing £2m policy.
Following an incident while  the work was being done, Mr P made a claim on his policy.  The 
claim was for less than £2m and so it was dealt with under the original policy  by that insurer.  
His claim was rejected because that policy had an exclusion for any work being  done to a 
depth of more than two metres.
Mr P complained. He said hed provided  all the details to Moneywise  and made it clear the 
work would be to a depth of over three metres. So Moneywise had sold the wrong policy  to 
him.
Moneywise didnt accept  that it had done  anything wrong. It said Mr P had asked for 
additional cover  up to £10m and thats  what was provided. It also said he was well aware  the 
existing policy only covered work up to a depth  of two metres  and didnt ask for this to be 
changed. .
When Mr P brought his complaint  to this service, our investigator didnt think  Moneywise was 
at fault. He said this wasnt an advised  sale, so Moneywise hadnt  reviewed Mr Ps needs  
and its duty was only to make sure the information  provided to Mr P was clear.  He thought 
the policy details  were clear, and it was for Mr P to check the policy  documents.
Mr P disagreed. He said he had made  it clear  to Moneywise that he needed cover for work  
being done at more  than two metres deep and, as Moneywise knew this, it should have 
provided a policy that covered this. He also said the investigator hadnt taken into account  
that Moneywise never sent the policy documents to him. 
The investigator considered Mr Ps further comments but didnt change his view. As no 
agreement has been reached the case has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P already  had an insurance policy but it only provided cover up to £2m and he needed to 
increase this. That policy didnt provide cover if the works being done were  at a depth  of 
more than two metres. The specific bit of work to be done involved digging  a trench over 
three metres  deep. So as well as increasing the amount of indemnity to £10m,  Mr P also 
needed to have cover for works being done  at below two metres.
Ref: DRN12455042But Mr P didnt ask for this  he simply told Moneywise he needed to increase the indemnity 
to £10m.  He sent copies of documents relating to the work, and there was information within 
those documents  saying  the trench would be more than two metres deep. He says this was 
enough to make Moneywise aware of what he needed. 
This wasnt an advised sale  Mr P didnt ask for advice  on what  type of policy  was suitable, 
and Moneywise didnt  assesse his needs or make  a recommendation. The existing  policy 
Mr P already  had didnt  provide cover  for trenches more than two metres deep  and he didnt 
ask Moneywise to change that. He simply asked for additional cover,  to increase the 
indemnity to £10m. Moneywise sold him the extra cover hed asked for. If he wanted to make  
other changes, he could  have requested them,  but he didnt.
Mr P says he wasnt sent any policy documents; all he got was an email telling him 
additional cover  was in place up to £10m.  As hed told Moneywise what  he needed and was 
told this was in place, he thought he would be covered.
Moneywise has explained that although  some communication with Mr P was done by email, 
the policy documents were sent to him by post.  The new policy  didnt change the nature of 
the cover, it simply increased the amount  to £10m.  And in my judgment, the policy 
documents were  clear.
In any event, the claim wasnt considered under the new policy   it was dealt with under  the 
policy already in place, which already had an exclusion for trenches over two metres deep.  
So regardless of whether Mr P had taken out the top up cover  or not, that made no 
difference to this claim. 
For these reasons, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. But even if it had been,  it would 
have made  no difference since the claim was dealt with under  the original policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1245504