K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained that he was badly advised  by Wesleyan  Assurance Society in 
September 1999 to start paying into a Free standing  Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(FSAVC) arrangement rather than to buy added years in the Occupational  Pension  
Scheme (OPS) of his employer.
Mr M considers that he has suffered a loss as a result of the advice he received.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2020. A copy is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. In summary  I said that I was minded to conclude that at the 
time of the sale the adviser  was not required to actively  investigate  the in-house  options, but 
was required to make Mr M aware  of them and alert him to the main features  cost being 
one of them. And while I didnt doubt that Mr M was made aware of the in-house options  and 
that he was given details as to how he could obtain  further information from his employer 
about these, I wasnt  satisfied that he was made  aware of the costs involved with each 
option, and specifically that the in-house AVC option  could potentially  offer lower  charges 
than the FSAVC plan.  
I said that I was minded  to conclude that this failing wouldve made  a difference. And 
although I appreciated that Mr M may have opted to start buying added years  in 2007, I 
didnt think that he would  have done  so when the FSAVC plan was sold. Taking everything 
into consideration, Im was of the view that, if fully informed of his options and the likely cost 
benefit of the in-house AVC, Mr M wouldve chosen  to contribute  to the in-house AVC 
scheme rather than the FSAVC plan. And to put matters right, I thought  that Wesleyan 
should undertake  a redress calculation  in accordance with the regulators FSAVC  review 
guidance, on a charges  only basis. 
Mr Ms representative has confirmed that Mr M accepts my provisional  finding. Wesleyan 
has not provided any further  comments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.  
Wesleyan should  undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC  
review guidance,  on a charges only basis, incorporating the amendment below to take into 
account that data for the CAPS mixed  with property index isnt available  for periods after 1 
January 2005.
The FSAVC  review guidance wasnt intended  to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark  index is 
used to calculate the difference  in charges and (if applicable)  any loss of employer 
matching contributions or subsidised  benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private  Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index.  So where  the calculation  requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared  after 1 January 
Ref: DRN196442622005, Wesleyan  should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should  if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be 
tax- free and 75% would have been  taxed according  to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed  to be 40%.  So 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct  Wesleyan Assurance Society 
to pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 January 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19644263Provisional decision dated 2 October 2020
background
Mr M met with Wesleyan in 1999 and received advice  to take out a FSAVC plan, contributing £200 
per month.  He was 37 years old at the time and was a member  of his employers  final salary  
occupational pension scheme (OPS). The expected  shortfall in the employers OPS was 4 years  228 
days. At the time of the sale Mr M couldve bought this extra service  if hed paid 4.3% of his salary  
over 23 years to the normal  retirement age of 60. Based  on his salary at that time of £56,008,  the 
added years wouldve cost him £2,408 per year or £200 per month increasing in line with his salary  
increases.
On 11 December  2007  (at age 45) Mr M joined  his employers added  years  arrangement and started 
buying the missing 4 years and 228 days missing  service.  This was at a cost of 6.84% of his 
pensionable pay over a period of 15 years  to the scheme normal retirement age of 60. At that time 
his contributions for the added years  were based on his salary of £96,408 were  £6,600 per annum 
or £550 per month.
Mr M continued paying the £200 per month into his FSAVC policy until December 2015.
Mr M complained to Wesleyan, with the help of a Claims Management Company,  that he shouldve 
been advised  to buy added years in 1999  rather to take out the FSAVC plan.
Wesleyan initially upheld the complaint and arranged for its actuaries to carry out a loss 
calculation in line with the FSAVC guidance  that had been issued by the regulator.
Wesleyans actuaries  determined that Mr M hadnt suffered a loss and so no redress was due.
Mr Ms representative didnt agree with the calculations that had been carried out by Wesleyan and 
arranged for another  reputable firm of actuaries to carry out a new loss calculation. Mr Ms 
actuaries calculated  the loss differently and it determined  that Mr M had suffered a loss.
As agreement  between  the actuaries couldnt be reached, the matter was referred to our 
service for an independent review.
Initially, as both parties were in agreement that Mr M wouldve bought added years in 1999 rather 
than taking out the FSVAC  plan, our assessment of the complaint  only considered the loss 
assessment.
Another ombudsman  here informally considered matters and issued a letter to both parties, setting 
out what  he considered to be the appropriate  way to complete  the calculation.
Mr Ms representative was concerned that in completing the new loss assessment Wesleyan would 
continue to offset Mr Ms gains outside of the liability  period, which  it said wouldnt be treating him 
fairly.
At this point, Wesleyan having reviewed matters, no longer agreed that Mr M wouldve bought 
added years. It said he was going through a divorce and wouldnt have wanted to commit  to the 
regular payments  added years wouldve  required,  and which wouldve increased  as his salary 
increased.
The comments from both parties were reviewed and an adjudicator issued  an opinion upholding the 
complaint. He was satisfied  that if Mr M had been  advised of the need to pay additional  contributions 
to secure the added years that he was interested in buying, he would  have done so.
Ref: DRN19644264Wesleyan didnt accept  the adjudicators opinion. It maintained that, whilst  with the benefit  of 
hindsight Mr M may have been better off if hed bought added years in 1999, it didnt consider this 
was a suitable  option  for him at the time of the sale.
The matter has now been referred to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Id first like to apologise  to both parties I for the length of time weve  had this complaint and thank 
them for their patience. Ive now considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  
whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to 
uphold the complaint but on a different  basis to the adjudicator. Ill explain  why.
Initially when the complaint  was first referred to our service both parties were in agreement  that Mr M 
wouldve bought added years in 1999. It was therefore appropriate for us to only consider what  
needed to be done to put matters right. However, as Wesleyan now disagrees that Mr M would  have 
purchased added years,  Ive reviewed the sale in order to decide  if the FSAVC plan was mis-sold.
I think  its important at this stage to explain that I must consider this complaint against the rules  set 
at the time of the sale. The adviser that sold this plan was tied to Wesleyan (known as Medical  
Sickness Society at the time) so they could only provide advice on Wesleyan  products; they werent 
an independent financial adviser. This is significant because  while the adviser  should still have 
known about the in-house AVC options that were available to Mr M, they werent able to provide  
advice as to the suitability of them.
The initial rules for tied advisers selling  FSAVCs were introduced 1988 by LAUTRO (the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation)  and said that in addition to highlighting the 
benefits of the FSAVC,  advisers should mention  the generic benefits of the in-house  options. These 
generic benefits would include:
Money purchase AVCs  could potentially offer lower charges than the FSAVC
The availability of Added years in the OPS
That the consumers employer might  match or top-up the amount the consumer paid 
into either in-house option,  although this wasnt an option  with Mr Ms employer.
Mentioning these things  to the extent  that they applied   was consistent with having regard to the 
consumer's right to contribute to an AVC arrangement,  and dealing fairly  with investors   both of 
which were  requirements  under the LAUTRO  Code  of Conduct.
When the PIA (Personal Investment Authority) took over from LAUTRO it adopted these rules. 
And in 1996 it issued a policy statement, Regulator  Update 20, which  further expanded on the 
procedures it expected tied advisers to follow  when  selling FSAVCs. The PIA said that before 
selling an FSAVC tied advisers should:
Draw the consumer's  attention to the in-house  alternative
Discuss the generic  differences  between the two routes
direct the consumer  to his employer or the OPS for more information on the in- 
house option
So at the time of the sale the adviser was not required  to actively investigate  the in-house options,  
but was required to make Mr M aware  of them and alert him to the main features  cost being  one 
of them.
Ref: DRN19644265What is evident from the sales paperwork is that there was discussion around the options Mr M had 
with his employer for topping up his retirement provision. The reasons why letter  the adviser sent to 
Mr M after the fact find was completed, explained that a shortfall  of 4 years and 8 months had been 
identified in the benefit his employers  OPS  would  provide on retirement. The letter said that the 
three options  for how Mr M could top this up had been  explained and the merits  of each discussed. 
It also confirmed that a booklet detailing the options had been left with Mr M. So, I dont doubt that 
Mr M was made  aware of the in- house options  and that he was given details  as to how he could 
obtain further information from his employer  about these.
But as theres  no further evidence regarding  the detail  of these discussions,  and Ive not seen a copy  
of the booklet that was left with Mr M, its difficult for me to say now with any certainty that he was 
made sufficiently aware of the generic differences between  the options.  In particular, Ive not seen 
anything that suggests  that he was made aware  of the costs involved with each option, and 
specifically that the in-house AVC option could  potentially offer lower charges  than the FSAVC plan.
Ive therefore gone on to consider whether failing  to provide this important information on the generic 
differences wouldve  made a difference. In other words, would Mr M still have proceeded with the 
FSVAC plan, or would he have opted for one of the in-house alternatives.
I appreciate that Mr M may have opted to start buying added years in 2007. But it doesnt  
necessarily mean that he wouldve made this choice  in 1999, if hed been given enough 
information; I have to consider his circumstances  and the investment climate at that time of the 
sale.
Mr M was going through a divorce and its noted on the fact find that he was paying maintenance  of 
varying amounts, whilst going through the legal process to fully determine  what  he would  be 
paying. And while I dont doubt that Mr M couldve  afforded added years,  there are a number of 
reasons why I think he may not have  been  interested in this option at that time. And I think  its 
important to remember here, that it wasnt for the adviser  to recommend  this option, they only had 
to provide adequate information on it and let Mr M know who to contact for further details.
The suitability letter suggests that Mr M wanted to retain control over his payments rather  than 
committing to the cost of added years at that point. And this doesnt seem unreasonable, given  that 
he didnt know at that stage  what hed be required to pay in terms of maintenance  and his divorce 
wasnt settled. I note that although he opted  to pay a fixed contribution to his FSAVC of £200 per 
month, he chose not to index this payment.  In my view this further supports that he didnt want to 
commit to the increasing  cost of added years at that point.
I think  its important to remember that the cost to Mr M of purchasing added  years wasnt 
intentionally subsidised by the employer. And its mainly with hindsight  that it can be seen that 
choosing to purchase added years in the 1990s wouldve resulted  in a much better  pension now 
than a money purchase scheme.
Ive also not been persuaded that added years wouldve,  at that time,  been seen as an option that 
would gain Mr M the best level of income  in retirement, which was detailed  in the fact find as his 
objective. I say this because Mr M was getting divorced  and part of the cost of added years goes 
towards providing benefits  for a spouse. So, I think its unlikely Mr M wouldve  considered a 
spouses pension  an important benefit  or something  he wouldve wanted to bear the cost of at that 
time.
When viewed in the investment climate of 1999, a potentially more cost-effective  option, albeit 
involving some risk, was for Mr M to contribute towards a scheme which  provided  a pension for 
him only. So, I think Mr Ms attitude to risk was relevant  to his decision.
Ref: DRN19644266The fact find indicates that along with other savings plans,  Mr M held three endowment policies,  one 
of which appears  to have been previously linked  to his mortgage but the others appear to have 
been purely  for savings.  That doesnt in itself make Mr M an experienced investor. But it does 
suggest he was prepared to take some degree of risk; he wasnt risk adverse. This is further 
supported on the fact find document  when Mr M confirmed that it was important that his investments 
have a balanced view, spread of risk, and that he had a spread of portfolio.
Given that Mr M was already in a final salary based  OPS providing guaranteed  benefits at 
retirement, I consider he had the capacity to take some  investment risk with his additional 
contributions. As such,  Im not satisfied on the balance of probabilities that Mr M wouldve chosen 
added years in 1999.
The sales paperwork suggests that the privacy and flexibility of the FSAVC  were important to Mr M 
and I accept that this can be of benefit. But overall,  Im not satisfied that he clearly outlined to 
Wesleyan that that was what  he wanted, rather it was more likely suggested  as a benefit  by the 
adviser. But Im not satisfied  that this wouldve been a more important consideration than the cost 
benefit.
Taking everything into consideration, Im currently of the view that, if fully informed of his options and 
the likely cost benefit of the in-house  AVC,  Mr M would have chosen  this option over the FSAVC  
plan. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont consider he wouldve chosen to purchase added  years 
in 1999.
Putting things right
Wesleyan should undertake  a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review  
guidance, on a charges  only basis,  incorporating the amendment  below to take into account that 
data for the CAPS mixed  with property index  isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review  guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses  arising solely 
from poor investment returns  in the FSAVC  funds, which is why a benchmark index is used to 
calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching contributions or 
subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index  provides  the closest  
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires  ongoing 
charges in an investment-based  FSAVC  and AVC to be compared  after 1 January  2005,  Wesleyan 
should use the CAPS mixed with property  index up to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private  
Investor Growth Total  Return  Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  amount should if possible be paid into Mr 
Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
The compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax- free and 75% would  
have been taxed according to his likely  income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So, 
making a notional  deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Ref: DRN1964426