K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc, (BOS), mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance, (MPPI),  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs G took out the monthly-premium  MPPI  during  a meeting in 2000  at the same 
time as they took out a joint mortgage. From  the earliest information that BOS  has been able 
to give us it seems that initially the policy cost around £45 a month. And following a 
successful claim  it would have paid out up to £750  a month  for up to 12 months. The MPPI 
covered both Mr and Mrs G for accident,  sickness and unemployment. And initially,  if Mr G 
had made  a successful  claim, he would have been  entitled to 80% of the maximum payment. 
Mrs G would have been entitled to 20%. The policy was amended after the sale took place,  
both as to the amount of the maximum benefit  and the split of this between  Mr and Mrs G.
As it was so long ago neither Mr and Mrs G nor BOS  has been able to send us copies of the 
paperwork from the time of the sale. So Ive had to rely on the information that I do have.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr and Mrs G 
disagreed the matter  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  our general  approach  to complaints about the sale of payment protection  
insurance on our website. Ive taken  this into account in Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. I have reached  this decision because:
Mr and Mrs G say that BOS advisor  recommended the insurance along with the 
mortgage, but didnt explain that they could shop  around elsewhere  for it. 
Understandably, because the sale was some 19 years ago, Mr and Mrs G havent  given  
us any detail of what BOS actually said. And in the absence  or more persuasive 
evidence I dont  find that I can fairly and reasonably  say that Halifax  didnt make  it clear 
to Mr and Mrs G that the MPPI was optional or that that they didnt choose to take it.
As BOS recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs G it had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that it was suitable for their needs. I find that it was suitable because, knowing 
what I do about the policy and their circumstances at the time:
oMr and Mrs G were both eligible for the MPPI;
oMr and Mrs G werent caught by any of the policys  main restrictions and 
limitations - such as those  affecting  someone with a pre-existing medical  
condition;
Ref: DRN15293322oMr and Mrs G say that they were entitled  to sick pay from their employer and had 
some savings.  But the MPPI would have paid out in addition  to this leaving their 
other means available  to help with other expenses while  one or other, or both, of 
them werent working. It would also have paid out had either  of them  made a 
successful claim  for involuntary  unemployment. So I think  that it would have been 
of use to them;
oThe policy was competitively priced  and had a reasonable  benefit  by reference to 
other similar polices that were available in the market at the time;
oAs Mr and Mrs G were both working I think that it was reasonable that the 
insurance covered  them both.  And as the benefit wasnt split 50:50 between them 
Im satisfied  that this was discussed  at the meeting  and agreed with them. I think  
that this view is reinforced because, at a later date, Mr and Mrs G varied the way 
in which  the benefit  was split between themselves;
oIve seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr and Mrs G couldnt afford the premiums. In 
any event, as it was paid for monthly, they could have cancelled  the policy  at any 
time had they later felt that it was unaffordable or they no longer required  it.
Its possible that BOS didnt give Mr and Mrs G all the information about the MPPI that it 
ought to have so that they could  make a fully informed decision whether to take it or not. 
For instance BOS may not have pointed out that they had to continue  paying the 
premiums during a claim or that monthly  benefits  wouldnt  be paid for the first 60 days of 
any period of absence from work, But as Ive concluded that it would have been of use to 
them I dont think that better information  would have  changed their minds and stopped  
them buying  it. I reach this conclusion particularly taking into account the possible 
serious consequences of failing to keep up their mortgage repayments which  were  
secured on their house.
This means I dont  think  that Mr and Mrs G have lost out because  of anything BOS  may 
have done wrong or omitted to do during the sale. So theres  nothing  I require it to put 
right.
my final decision
For the reason  Ive given above  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1529332