K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (Bank  of Scotland) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr H bought a monthly premium PPI policy in March 2008  at the same time as taking  out a 
credit card. The card and policy  were applied for during a meeting.
Mr H says the policy was mis-sold to him. He says he had no need for PPI and it wasnt 
suitable for him as he was already entitled  to very good sick pay.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint because:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr H when he discussed  having a credit  
card with an advisor from Bank of Scotland during a meeting. But Ive looked at sales  
documentation and considered what I know of Bank of Scotland branch sales  at that 
time. I consider it is more likely  that he was advised  it was a good  idea to have the 
insurance to protect his card repayments, and he took it on that advice by signing the 
agreement.
I have come to this conclusion because I can see in the application form provided that 
there is a separate section for PPI with a box ticked. Mr H has also signed separately 
within this section  as well, agreeing to have  it. I havent been  able to see any evidence 
that anything different  happened in this sale and Mr Hs recollections  have  not 
persuaded me on this occasion  that he wasnt given a choice to have  it either. So on 
balance, as I have  already  concluded,  I think Mr H was given a choice in the meeting.
From  what I know of branch sales at that time, I think Bank  of Scotland  recommended 
the PPI to Mr H. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him based  on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time.  The benefit  provided by the policy  would have 
been useful to him if he had any period of sickness or unemployment. Any claim could 
have been paid in addition to his 6 months  full and 6 months half sick pay and would 
have provided  him with additional  income at a difficult time.  So I think  the policy 
recommended to Mr H would have been  of use and so I cannot conclude that it would 
have been unsuitable  for him based  on what I have seen.  I also dont think  there were 
any significant terms or exclusions that made  the policy unsuitable for Mr H either.
Bank of Scotland has been  unable  to provide evidence  that it provided  clear costs at the 
time of sale. But I dont think Mr H wouldve changed his mind about taking the policy if 
Ref: DRN13974572this cost was presented  clearly to him during the meeting (for the same  reasons why 
I think the policy is suitable).
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
its unlikely Mr H wouldve been affected by any of these,  due to his circumstances at the 
time of sale.
I know this will be a disappointment  to Mr H but I cannot find a reason to uphold his 
complaint. 
Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1397457