K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a home insurance 
claim.
background
Mrs Cs home suffered damage  after a burst pipe. Shes raised  a number of issues  but in 
summary, the repair took a little longer than was expected and a number of issues  werent 
quite right. Mrs C was on holiday while repair work  was undertaken but she was unhappy on 
returning to her home as she didnt think it had been cleaned  properly.  She described a 
white film and dust being present  throughout the home.
Mrs C is also unhappy that she was told by neighbours that two people entered  her property 
while she was away. And she says her CCTV had been damaged and was unhappy at 
receiving an invoice to repair  it.
UKI accepted that it had provided  some poor service and paid £150 compensation. It 
explained that some repairs  needed to be rectified but Mrs Cs CCTV had been covered up 
when decorating and a loose cable was for an old connection. The property was left with 
working CCTV. A contractor had returned to Mrs Cs home while  she was away but that had 
been to collect  some equipment that had been left there. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  UKI should pay more  
compensation. The investigator explained  that she accepted  the contractor had returned for 
some equipment; the CCTV  had been left in working  order and UKI had paid for this to be 
done; while there were  no photographs  that showed  the presence  of dust as described by 
Mrs C, UKI had accepted  she had cleaned up. Taking this all into account the investigators 
opinion was that the £150 compensation paid was fair.
Mrs C disagreed. She said the compensation was an insult and the CCTV was still broken.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main  issue to be decided is whether  the £150 compensation fairly reflects the trouble 
UKI caused Mrs C.
Sometimes when dealing with claims things dont  quite go to plan and there  can be errors  
with the repairs.  UKI had all the issues looked  into by the contractor. And whats  important in 
my view is how things are put right by the insurer where theyve gone wrong. The 
deficiencies with the repairs were rectified fairly  quickly. And UKI paid an engineer to ensure 
the CCTV was working. This meant there  was a short delay in completing the insurance 
claim and I accept this caused  Mrs C some trouble and upset. 
It isnt in doubt that a contractor revisited  Mrs Cs property whats  in dispute is why they were  
there. Mrs C thinks one thing and UKI says something else. It seems more likely  than not to 
me that the contractor was there to recover some equipment  for use on the next job (as put 
forward by the contractor company), rather than going there to stay the night. Its not 
Ref: DRN19621202disputed that the contractor  spoke  to a neighbour about the visit and so I think  it unlikely 
theyd so if they intended to stay there overnight.
There may well have  been some dust that needed  to cleaned up but the extent of the dust 
and whether the contractors were responsible for all the areas  it was found in is something  
that Im not in a position to make a finding  on. There are differing accounts  and no other 
evidence such as photographs. The contractors say they didnt enter any bedrooms  and that 
a member of Mrs Cs family had attended  the house  during repairs. Taking this information  
into account Im not able to say who bears what proportion of responsibility.
Having thought about this complaint  carefully I am satisfied that UKI didnt handle Mrs Cs 
claim promptly or fairly.  There  were  deficiencies with the repairs which  resulted in a short 
delay to completion. The errors were relatively  minor and short-lived, and Im not persuaded 
that Mrs C has demonstrated the impact  on her was more than relatively modest. So Im 
satisfied that £150  fairly  reflects the circumstances. 
my final decision
Im satisfied U K Insurance  Limiteds payment of £150 is fair compensation in all the 
circumstances. 
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1962120