K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains about the service she received when  she wanted to make  a mid-term
change to her motor  insurance policy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 19 March  2020,  
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So I wont repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that Admiral  hadnt treated Miss D 
unfairly. Neither Miss D nor Admiral responded to my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Miss D nor Admiral has provided  me with anything  further  on the 
complaint, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  that Admiral treated Miss D unfairly 
here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Miss Ds 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19002532extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Miss D complains about the service she received when  she wanted to make  a mid-term 
change to her motor  insurance policy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
background
In February 2018,  Miss D took out a motor  insurance policy with Admiral.  A few months  later, 
she changed her car and wanted to change her policy. Miss D was unhappy  about  the 
premium Admiral quoted  for the change of car, as she had seen  lower  premiums elsewhere. 
So, in June 2018, she cancelled her policy with Admiral and took out a new policy with it for
a lower premium. Admiral initially gave Miss D incorrect quotes in relation to the new 
policy but sorted that out. It waived its cancellation  and administration  fees on 
cancellation.
Miss D says that her greatest concern is that even  though she stayed with Admiral, she 
wasnt given any loyalty discount.  And she spent a lot of time changing the policy.  Miss D 
wants compensation of at least  £100  and a process  in place to ensure she receives  a 
loyalty discount if she needs to change her policy with the same business.
In response to Miss Ds complaint, Admiral upheld  the part in relation to incorrect quotes 
and paid Miss D compensation of £25.
One of our investigators looked  at what had happened. He said that Admirals response  in 
relation to the premiums  was correct but its overall  service could have been better. The 
investigator thought  that Admiral should pay Miss D £100 for her loss of no claims 
discount.
Admiral didnt agree with the investigator. It said that although the investigator found no 
error in how it priced the policy and it didnt make  the decision to cancel the policy,  he was 
asking it to provide  further compensation. Admiral  said that as Miss D cancelled  her policy, 
she wouldnt  be entitled to any further no claims  discount and it didnt think  it should 
compensate Miss D for the loss of unearned discount.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, an
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt the regulator and we cant direct a business in relation to its processes 
generally. So, I cant  direct Admiral to have a process in place to ensure Miss D receives 
a loyalty discount  if she needs to change her policy again. But I can look at whether 
Admiral has treated Miss D fairly.  I think it has and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN19002533When certain factors change during the term of a policy, such as a change of car, an 
insurer is entitled to reconsider the risk. Admiral has provided me with confidential,
business-sensitive information  to explain how it calculated the change  in premium for
Miss D. Im afraid I cant share that information  with Miss D but Ive checked it carefully 
and Im satisfied the price  Miss D was quoted has been calculated  correctly and all of 
Admirals customers  in the same position  as Miss D would have been charged a similar 
premium.
I appreciate that Miss D finds  it odd that she can get a lower premium  from Admiral by 
taking out a new policy. But several  factors contribute to that, such  as how the policy  is 
purchased and the date on which the insurer calculates the overall risk its taking on, rather  
than re-rating one element, such as a change  of car.
Miss D thought that the premium Admiral  quoted  for changing her existing policy was too 
high. In cases like this, we think that its fair for an insurer to offer Miss D the opportunity 
to cancel the policy and waive any cancellation  or administration fees. Admiral did that 
here and I think thats fair.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think that Admiral gave clear information about  cancelling  her 
previous policy  and taking out a new one. I dont  think  a fair outcome here requires Admiral 
to give Miss D a loyalty discount or to pay compensation  for unearned no claims discount. 
Loyalty discounts  are in the insurers discretion and usually apply on renewal.  I dont think  
Admiral used its discretion unfairly in not applying such a discount  here where Miss D 
chose to cancel her policy mid-term and take out new one at a lower premium.
In cancelling the initial policy approximately four months into its term, Miss D didnt quality 
for an additional years no claims  discount.  Thats one of the factors  to take into 
consideration when deciding whether to continue with the initial policy  or take out a new one 
with a lower premium. There are no grounds on which to direct  Admiral to pay Miss D 
compensation for unearned no claims discount.
I think that the compensation Admiral has already paid Miss D in relation to providing 
her with an incorrect quote is fair and I dont propose to direct it to pay any more.
my provisional decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss D but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont propose to 
uphold her complaint.
Ref: DRN1900253