K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading  as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 15 August 2019.  A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I thought 
the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything further  to consider, I confirm my provisional findings.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12931802copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs F says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax), mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs F bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card.  If Mrs F wasnt able to 
work because  of accident, sickness or unemployment, the policy would  have paid 10% of the 
outstanding balance on her credit card, and would have done so for 12 months.  
Our adjudicator didn't  uphold the complaint.  Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me for decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in provisionally  deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Provisionally, I dont think this policy was mis-sold   Ill explain why. 
I think  Halifax  made  Mrs F aware  she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she chose to take 
it. Mrs F has said she has no recollection  of the PPI being sold to her. But I have seen a copy of the 
visa card application  form that has been signed and dated by Mrs F. 
The form has been pre-printed with Mrs Fs personal information as well as an X being marked in the 
box for credit card repayment  insurance in response to the comment  If you would like to take 
advantage of these services  please mark the relevant boxes. Because  of the personal  and other 
information included  in the application, I think its most likely the form was pre-populated following a 
discussion with a Halifax representative.  
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs F, which means they had to check  it was right for her. And 
based on what Ive seen of Mrs Fs circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. However,  I am 
conscious that some of the information I have about Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of the sale is 
conflicting.
Mrs F initially told us she was employed  as a consultant for a resourcing business but later 
commented about part-time  work. We asked Mrs F about  this and she said she was working for one 
business around 20 hours per week earning £12,000 per year. She said she was also working 
another 20 hours with the resourcing business and earning around £18,000 per year. We asked Mrs F 
more about this as the credit card application completed in 1999 records her employment as a 
salesperson and earning  £6,000 per year.
Mrs F further clarified that she remembered she had one job and was switching to the other at the 
time of the application. So it looks most likely that Mrs F was with one employer only.  
Mrs F believes her sick pay was standard practice at the time i.e. minimum  guidelines  which would 
suggest she would only receive statutory  sick pay if she was too unwell to work. And I have assumed 
this is the same if Mrs F was made redundant. In either circumstance, the policy would have given her 
piece of mind,  as it would have paid out 10 % of the outstanding  balance of her credit  card for 12 
months if she wasnt in work. 
Ref: DRN12931803Mrs F has told us she had £15,000 savings  which  were  not earmarked for anything. So she could  
have used the savings if she needed to. But by having  the policy in place would have meant she didn't  
need to touch  her savings to pay for the credit card and if necessary, the savings could have been 
used for other essential outgoings at what could have been a difficult  time if Mrs F wasnt working.  
Based on what Mrs F has told us I think she was eligible for the policy and could have benefited from 
it if she had needed to make a claim. 
Mrs F has said the cost of the policy wasnt explained to her and she wasnt given adequate  
information about it or about  cancelling the PPI if she had wanted to. Clearly, I dont  know what was 
said to Mrs F so accept its possible that the information Halifax gave Mrs F wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. 
But Mrs F doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main  things the policy didn't cover  a 
pre-existing medical condition as an example.  And based on what Ive concluded were Mrs Fs likely  
circumstances, it looks like the policy could have been useful for her. So I dont think better 
information would have put Mrs F off taking out the cover.
Ive taken into account Mrs Fs comments and in particular her recollection of the sale. But 
provisionally, nothing Mrs F has said has caused me to change my mind. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I explained above, my provisional  decision is that I dont  uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Please could  Bank  of Scotland plc and Mrs F send me any more information or comments to look at 
by 15 September 2019. After  that, Ill issue my final decision. 
Ref: DRN1293180