K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 2004 at the same  time as taking out a loan. Mr W says he took out 
the loan and PPI policy  during a meeting. Nationwide says the loan and PPI were sold over 
the phone. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £450.45  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 36 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £153.25  with the PPI costing  an additional £13.81 making  the total 
monthly repayment £167.06.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Ws monthly loan repayment for up to 
remaining term in the event of a successful  disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr W was employed as a laundry  service representative. He has told us he was 
entitled to redundancy pay but had no other  means  of repaying his loan should he be unable 
to work. Mr W has said he had a medical  condition  some time before the sale.  
Nationwide has confirmed  that the loan ran its full term and ended in 2007.
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ws representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr W about the poor value;  
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
Ref: DRN16554792The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Mr W should  have  explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN16554793The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws case.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr W with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and 
Nationwide Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr W know he had a choice?
Ref: DRN16554794Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr W says the PPI and loan were arranged  during  a meeting. Nationwide  says they were  
arranged during a telephone call. Looking at the evidence provided  I think  its more likely  the 
sale was over the phone. I say this because  the loan agreement  is pre-populated with Mr 
Ws details. 
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call during which the loan and PPI were 
sold to Mr W. It also hasnt been able to provide any call notes. This is unfortunate but isnt 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place, and businesses arent expected to keep 
records indefinitely. Nationwide has provided a sample sales  script which  it says is similar, if 
not the same as the one that would have been  used by the Nationwide  representative when 
Mr W was sold the loan and PPI. Looking at this sample I can see there are sections which  
prompt the adviser to discuss the PPI and provide details of the cover on offer.  So I think  its 
likely there was some discussion with Mr W about  the policy. 
Following the application  process Mr W was given a credit agreement. Nationwide  has 
provided a copy of the agreement he was given and within this I can see there is a separate 
section detailing the cost of the Optional Credit  Insurance. I wouldve expected Mr W to 
read over this agreement  and raise any questions he had at the time before signing it.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr W knew  the policy  was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr W says the PPI was arranged 
during a meeting but he hasnt said whether  he was given advice or not. Looking at what 
happened when  Nationwide  sold Mr W the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. I 
say this because  we know that in general  when Nationwide sold PPI at this time with loans it 
didnt provide advice. I also cant see anything within the paperwork we have from the time 
of sale to suggest advice was given  to Mr W. 
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr W. Instead, it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr W to make  an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN16554795the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr W was given a broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr W was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because the likely the credit agreement  they received refers to the cover  and that 
it was being added to the loan. I think its unlikely Mr W would have  taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was. And I think Mr W knew  that the single premium 
being added to the loan was £450.45, the interest  added  to the premium was £46.71, the 
total cost was £497.16 and the monthly  cost was £13.81 as this information was, in my view, 
sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mr W signed.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr W agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing his attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr Ws about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
Ref: DRN16554796What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr W? To what extent did Mr W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr W.  
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr W  
would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr W says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr W had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr W chose  to take this policy out. So I consider  that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr W thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr W has suffered  any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mr W was given  about the cost was clear.  But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt 
as clear as it should have  been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr W would get back in return in the 
event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ws expectations about what the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what they actually  bought  were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or disease  that Mr W knew 
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy.  Or any 
medical condition  or disease which Mr W received treatment or advice  for in the 12 
months before the start date and which recurs within 12 months of the start date of 
the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr W pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as he thought and they might  have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking out the policy.  
The evidence about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.  Mr W was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
Ref: DRN16554797insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr W says he had a medical  condition  some 
time before the PPI was taken out and the policy wouldnt  have  provided  cover had he 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because the medical condition Mr 
W has referred  to was dealt with by surgery many years before the sale.  Mr W hasnt told us 
of any ongoing  issues he had that was related  to this condition.  
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr W would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr W needed to be unable to do any work. I dont think  this is 
likely to be too different  to what he would have expected to make a claim. After all, the loan 
agreement says Mr W is insured for disability,  unemployment and life. So it seems unlikely 
he would  have thought hed be able to make a successful claim if Mr W was still working,  
whether that be in his job or any other job. 
The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mr W decided  to repay  the loan early  and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr W would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what 
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences were  Mr W made redundant, or unable to work through  accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr W would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr W would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr W 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN16554798Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr W compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
[he/she/they] would have  been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2021. 
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1655479