K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Society  of Lloyds declined his landlords insurance claim for malicious 
damage and theft in respect of his let property.
background
Mr T had tenants in his let property. In March 2017  he carried  out an inspection and asked 
the tenants to deal with a couple  of issues concerning the drain and tiles in the bathroom. 
After that he attempted to re-inspect but the tenants wouldnt agree to a meeting. When he 
attempted to access the property, he found  that the tenants had had the locks changed. He 
notified Lloyds  in October 2017  that he suspected  the tenants were  damaging  the property. 
The tenants left at the end of October. When Mr T accessed the property he found it had 
suffered severe  damage throughout. Most of the furniture he had supplied was missing.  
Lloyds appointed loss adjusters who carried out site visits and took photos  of the damage.  
They asked Mr T for various details  concerning  his policy and said it would  be referred to 
underwriters. After Mr T appointed a loss assessor  to chase up, the loss adjusters advised 
Mr T in September 2018 that the damage was caused mostly by wear  and tear or neglect  
and wasnt malicious.  They  also said Mr T hadnt  complied with the condition  in the policy  to 
carry out three-monthly checks and had failed to notify Lloyd's of the damage  to the property 
following the inspection  in March 2017. Lloyds upheld  the decision although it said that the 
three-monthly inspection  term didn't apply to this claim. It agreed that the claims decision 
had been delayed and paid him £250 compensation.
Mr T strenuously denied that he had failed to carry out inspections  or that the property was 
in any state of disrepair following the March inspection  he said those issues  had been 
resolved. He felt that the damage was all malicious. He has cover for Landlords contents 
which Lloyds had failed  to address. He pointed out that he had been  told, if the claim was 
accepted, that Lloyds  would arrange  repairs so he hadnt been able to undertake  any 
repairs and had been unable to re-let  the property.
Mr T arranged repairs  which were  carried  out by March 2019.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that some of the damage could be 
classified as malicious. He also said that Lloyds should pay for the items stolen under the 
landlords contents cover in the policy. He said that Lloyds should pay 15 months loss of 
rent to account  for the delay and the period of repairs.  
Lloyds made an offer of £2,600, including £1,250 for missing furniture and £250 for the 
washing machine.  The balance was for cosmetic repairs, damage  to kitchen components, 
scraped walls and tiling, a mirror in the bathroom and the gas meter  cover.  It denied it had 
any liability  for loss of rent as it considered the property to be habitable.
Mr T said the offer didnt  cover most of the furniture and was insufficient for the areas 
needing repair. He said it wasnt  possible  to rent out the property until it was repaired.
I issued a provisional decision setting out what damage I thought ought to be covered as 
malicious damage. I said that Lloyds should  reconsider  the escape  of water part of the 
claim. I further said that I thought that Lloyds should  pay seven months loss of rent. 
Ref: DRN13834482Mr T raised  other issues  removal  of debris,  replacement locks, iron burns in the carpet 
upstairs and payment of interest.  He further argued that the removal of plaster which he 
believes was done with an angle grinder should be covered. He said there  were  no damp 
issues with the property or any need  to do replastering so its removal  must have been 
malicious. He further argued that he should  be paid loss of rent from the date of the claim 
until he was able to do the necessary repairs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
malicious/accidental damage
When a property is found to have been  substantially neglected its often difficult to tell 
whether it was through neglect, wear and tear or malicious. The policy only covers  malicious  
damage. By that we generally consider that that it's damage that is done intentionally to 
cause harm. It doesnt cover neglect eg where  the property is excessively dirty or something 
that is done deliberately but not maliciously. And as were not able to question  the tenants  
intention it has to be a matter of judgement as to how the damage  might have been caused.
Accidental damage, as its not specifically  defined in the policy we consider to be damage 
which is unforeseen and unintentional.
Like the investigator I have considered all the points  of damage listed. Ill deal with any 
contents damaged  or missing below. Starting  firstly from Lloyds response to our 
investigators view the following issues are now accepted as covered under the claim either 
as accidental or malicious damage to the building:
Cosmetic repairs- Scraped walls (£150 offered).
Kitchen £500  offered for damage to components
Bathroom £250  for the tiling and £50 for the (smashed) mirror.
External - Gas meter cover £150
kitchen
To be clear I think the kitchen damage  includes the units  Cut with knives  on every  door and 
drawer, door fronts pulled off, the boiler  panel  snapped off and the extractor fan dismantled 
and unit cover pulled off hinges. The other items  of damage dont appear  to me to be 
malicious. Ill deal with the cost below.
downstairs front room
Apart from the scraped walls I dont consider the damage to be malicious or accidental.  
There has been an internal wall constructed to make  a child's  bedroom  but I dont think  the 
damage caused by its removal  was malicious  or accidental.
hallway/bathroom
Ref: DRN13834483Apart from the scraped walls, there  are no malicious or accidental  damage issues  in the hall. 
For the bathroom, Lloyds has agreed  to pay for the tiles and the mirror. Additionally where  
cigarettes were stubbed out on the window frame, it should consider paying for that damage 
to be repaired.
stairs, bedrooms 1, 2 and 3
Apart from the scraped walls, no issues to be dealt with under the policy. I note that the 
doors were drilled to install  Yale locks  and Lloyds suspected the house was being used as 
an HMO  (House of multiple occupation). Mr T was clearly unaware of this, but the damage  to 
the doors cant I think be described as malicious.
Some plaster has been hacked  off the walls of bedrooms 1 and 2 and a square piece of 
ceiling removed from bedroom 1. The removal appears to have been done  in a regular way, 
as if to prepare the wall for replastering, I think if this had been malicious it would have been 
done with hammers or blunt instruments. I find it difficult to say this was malicious.
outside/other issues
Lloyds has agreed  to pay for the gas meter cover. The drainpipe had been sawn  through  
and the consumer unit tampered  with. I think Lloyds should consider those two matters as 
malicious damage as well.
settlement
Lloyds should  reconsider the claim for malicious damage on the basis  of the matters Ive 
listed above. I should point out that for items  stolen or maliciously damaged  by the tenant  
there is a maximum liability of £10,000  (less  any excess) under the policy.
landlords contents
 
These are clearly covered under the policy. The loss adjusters report identified  a number of 
items as being missing,  but no attempt was made  to address these until after our 
investigators view. Even then Lloyds only agreed to pay for a small number of items.  Mr T 
says all the following  items were missing:
Bedroom 1 - Front
King Size bed
King Size Mattress
Side tables
Mirrors
Wardrobe
Shelving unit
Window blinds x 3
Light shade
Bedroom 2 - Middle bedroom
Single bed
Single Mattress
Side table
Wardrobe
Windows blinds x 1
Light shade
Ref: DRN13834484Landing
Light shade x 2
Bedroom 3 - Rear bedroom
Double bed
Double Mattress
Side table
Wardrobe
Window blinds x 1
Stairs
Light shade
Lounge
Sofa x 2
Coffee table
Light shade
Window blinds x 3
Front door mat
Tall Candle holders  x 2
Kitchen
Chair x 2
Table (damaged  as being cut by knives)
Front Door
Door number (in my view technically not contents,  and unlikely to have  been  stolen)
Lloyds should  reconsider these items  under the terms of the policy,  subject to Mr T 
providing the necessary evidence. Together  with the damage these come within the £10,000  
limit.
escape of water
The claim was first registered as an escape of water, but hasnt been addressed since  then. 
The policy covers escape of water from  any tank,  apparatus or pipe or escape  of oil from 
any oil-fired heating installation.  The loss adjusters report said:
The basement  of the property was completely  saturated with water and required the
floor, walls and sections of the ceiling to be reinstated. The bathroom  is still showing signs of 
water damage, although the sections  of tiles that had fallen  off the wall have been reinstated,  
albeit with mismatched  tiles.
I understand this came  from a blocked  drain where  the water  was allowed to drain  back into 
the basement area. As it hasnt been addressed  by Lloyds or the loss adjusters I dont know  
why it hasnt considered  paying for this. Mr T has had the work done  so presumably will be 
able to advise  Lloyds of the cost. I think it should  reconsider this.
loss of rent
Ref: DRN13834485Lloyds says that the property remained habitable  so loss of rent wasnt applicable.  The 
actual policy  term says We will pay for your loss of Rent Receivable if your Building  cannot 
be lived in or access to it is denied as a result of damage insured under Section 1 Buildings.
As far as I can see the damage  caused by the water was reinstated  by December  2017,  the 
time of the loss adjusters  visit. I think it was fair to allow a further two months for Lloyds to 
make a policy decision. But it took until September  2018 for the decision to be notified to 
Mr T. 
I dont think the items of malicious damage  actually covered under the policy would have 
made the property  unable  to be lived in. I think Lloyds should pay loss of rent, based on the 
previous rent paid, for the period of seven months  from February to September 2018. After  
that although the repairs needed to be carried out they were  for the most part not covered 
under the policy.  As the loss is dependent on there  being damage insured under the policy  
and as any insured  damage wouldnt have made the property unable  to be lived in, I wont  
award loss of rent beyond the dates mentioned.
compensation
Lloyds has offered £250 compensation.  I think thats reasonable for the inconvenience 
caused by its delayed decision on Mr Ts claim. I believe Mr T refused this payment. If he 
wants to accept it, he should contact Lloyds directly.
With regard to Mr Ts further issues, I accept that there is cover  under the policy for:
Removal of tenants debris.
Replacement of locks.
Iron burn marks on the carpets - this would either be malicious or accidental  damage.
Lloyds should  also reconsider these items,  subject  to Mr T providing  the necessary  
evidence.
For the other  items  I maintain my view that the removal  of the plaster  didnt amount to 
malicious damage. Whilst it might have been  unnecessary, I still think  that in light of the fact 
that the removal was done in a regular way, meant  it wasnt  malicious.
I also maintain my view that once  the policy decision had been  communicated  to Mr T the 
items of malicious damage covered by the policy shouldnt  have made  the property 
uninhabitable. As it is a cash  sum,  I accept that interest should be added to this.
As regards  the rest of the claim,  as Im requiring Lloyds to reconsider it, it isnt appropriate to 
add interest to any prospective  settlement.
My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Society  of Lloyds to reconsider Mr Ts claim for:
malicious or accidental damage  in respect  of the issues  listed  above subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Ref: DRN13834486removal of tenants debris and replacement of locks subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy
 
theft of landlords  contents in respect  of the items listed  above  subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions  of the policy.
any water damage under the escape of water term in the policy.
And Society  of Lloyds  must pay loss of rent, calculated according to the previous monthly 
rent payable for a period of seven months  together with simple  interest* at 8% per year from 
the date each payment of rent would have become due until repayment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*Society of Lloyds  is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct  tax from any interest 
paid. Should Mr T request it, it should provide him with a certificate showing how much tax 
has been taken  off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
Ref: DRN1383448