K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy in 1997, at the same time as taking out a mortgage. Due to the time 
that has passed, its not clear how Mr M applied for his mortgage  or PPI policy. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £300 a month towards Mr Ms mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. In 2001, the earliest  time for which  data is 
available, it cost £17.96 a month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a delivery  driver. He has told us he was not entitled  to 
any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means  of repaying his mortgage should he be unable  
to work. He also said he wasnt entitled  to any redundancy pay. Mr M initially said he was in 
good health at the time of the sale. But his representative later sent us a PPI questionnaire 
that suggested he did have a medical  condition at the time of sale  but provided no further 
information about this.
Bank of Scotland has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed 
in 2001. 
Mr Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ms representative  says:
Bank of Scotland failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bank of Scotland 
should have told Mr M about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bank of Scotland should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr M and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN18928282The information Mr M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN18928283I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Bank  of Scotland at the time. So, Im satisfied  I should  take the ABI Code 
and these other publications  into account when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Bank of Scotland was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Bank  of Scotland gave advice, whether it advised Mr M with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Bank of Scotland gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and Bank 
of Scotland,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN18928284did Mr M know he had a choice?
Bank of Scotland had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Because the sale took place so long ago, there is no evidence of how the policy  was sold. 
And Mr M has not alleged  that Bank of Scotland failed to do this. As such, I think  there  is 
insufficient evidence  for me to conclude that Bank of Scotland  did not make  it clear to Mr M 
that the PPI policy  was optional, or that he did not agree to take it out.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr M knew  the policy was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Bank of Scotland provide advice?
Because Bank of Scotland cant say how the PPI was sold, it has assumed that it was a 
branch sale and that it provided advice. Mr M has told us he thinks  the sale took place in a 
meeting. So, I think it is most  likely that advice was provided by Bank of Scotland.
This means  Bank of Scotland had to advise Mr M with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Bank of Scotland took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr M. Mr M has told us that the cover was discussed, including  how 
much it would cost and how long it would last. Other than this, there is no record of what the 
adviser discussed in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in respect of a sale during a 
meeting. The adviser likely had some  limited information about  Mr Ms financial 
circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to establish 
whether Mr M would have  been  caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  
might have meant the policy  did not fully meet his needs. For example, there is nothing to 
suggest Bank of Scotland considered whether Mr M had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr M given his circumstances. 
So, Im not persuaded Bank  of Scotland advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr M, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr M had a need for the policy  Mr M would not have received any sick pay if he 
was unable to work  due to illness or redundancy and he didnt have  any savings he 
could fall back on. The policy would have helped Mr M manage the consequences  if 
he was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy is unlikely to have been  more than it was in 2001, and 
that appears to have  been affordable for Mr M at the time of sale in 1997. 
Ref: DRN18928285-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr M. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ms employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult  
for him to claim. With regard to pre-existing medical conditions, Im not persuaded 
that Mr M had any. He initially told us (and Bank of Scotland) that he didnt, and 
although his representative later sent us a PPI questionnaire where it suggested he 
did, I think that was unlikely. This is because of what Mr M initially said,  and the fact 
that his representative provided no further  information or evidence to confirm he had 
a medical condition at the time of sale. So, I dont think  Mr M had any pre-existing 
medical conditions  that could affect  his ability to claim. There  were  also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr M be disabled  or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr Ms circumstances, 
the fact the policy  protected the mortgage repayments relating to his home and the 
potential consequences  should Mr M be unable to make  the repayments on loans  
secured against  his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Bank  of Scotland  gave Mr M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Bank of 
Scotland was recommending  to him and make  an informed  decision about whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr M was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because Mr M has told us that the cover was discussed,  
including how much it would cost and how long it would last.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Bank  of Scotland  gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr M agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M, Im not persuaded Bank of 
Scotland did enough to present information  about  the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  gave Mr M all of the 
information he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN18928286-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Bank  of Scotland  ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Bank of Scotlands shortcomings have on Mr M? To what  extent  did 
Mr M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Bank of Scotland didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  
to Mr M. So, I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr M suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr M would have still taken out the policy, had Bank of Scotland done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland took the steps it should  have done to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr M, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Bank of Scotland had explained things 
properly, Mr M would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr M says he wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  that when Bank of Scotland  advised him that there was 
a suitable product he could buy, that would protect his mortgage payments in the event he 
was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment, he concluded he 
wanted that product. But he made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what he thought  he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
Ref: DRN18928287As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr M knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, its not clear that Bank  of Scotland  told him the exact premium at the point 
Mr M applied  for the policy.  Having  said that, it seems likely Mr M would have been told the 
cost before the policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs 
were significantly  at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might 
have raised that with Bank of Scotland  at the time, or reconsidered  his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr M would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr M knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy,  or for which hed 
received treatment or advice during the 12 months before the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job or any other  job for which he was suited by experience  or training;  
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr M was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr M wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr M didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr M would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any other job for which he was suited  by experience or training, it might  have played into his 
thinking about what he would have done.  And I accept it may have given him pause  for 
thought  although its possible he may not have  been overly  concerned  given that if Mr M 
was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation the chances that he would  be 
able to take up another job for which he was suited would also,  in all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN18928288Bank of Scotland may not have told Mr M that any claim  he made would be limited to a 
12-month period. This may have differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for, 
but he didnt have any other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr M would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr M be unable to work in the circumstances  covered  by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made and it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring  his home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr M was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr M 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M would  not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as a result of the sale, was the same position he would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
Ref: DRN18928289taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Bank  of Scotland should  pay Mr M compensation, as that would 
put him in a better position than he would have been in if everything  had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr M thinks  Bank  of Scotland  misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Bank of Scotlands statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why 
Bank of Scotland failed to act fairly  and reasonably  was not because of what it did or didnt 
say in the information it provided  but because the overall information Bank of Scotland 
gave Mr M, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met, in 1997,  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Bank  of Scotland negligently misrepresented  the contract  to Mr M and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Bank of Scotland  had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr M in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 November  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1892828