K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bank of Scotland plc wrongly used  lump  sum payments to 
reduce their mortgage  balance. They want it to re-apply the payments to their contractual 
monthly payments.  They say Bank  of Scotland refusing to do this has resulted in their 
account falling into arrears. 
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a 25 year interest  only mortgage in 2002. They also entered into a 
flexible options  agreement. This allowed them access to further credit, secured by the 
mortgage, provided they acted in accordance with the agreement. It also allowed Mr and 
Mrs S flexible options, such as being able to make  overpayments and underpayments, take 
payment holidays  and make lump  sum payments. They  could re-draw  funds, up to the credit  
limit. Mr and Mrs S took out further  borrowing in 2007 and increased their credit  limit to 
£750,000. 
Mr and Mrs S made overpayments in 2017, which Bank of Scotland used to reduce the 
mortgage balance.  Mr and Mrs S didnt make  all of their monthly payments in 2018 and their 
account fell into arrears.
Mr and Mrs S questioned why there were arrears  on the account  in May 2018.  Mr S said 
Bank of Scotland should use the overpayments to cover the missed monthly payments. He 
had a number  of discussions with Bank of Scotland from mid to late 2018,  during which  he 
was led to believe the overpayments could be re-allocated to pay the arrears and monthly 
payments. 
In December 2018 Bank of Scotland said the overpayments had been applied properly to 
reduce the mortgage balance and the arrears were correct. It said it cant re-allocate the 
overpayments to the arrears or monthly  payments.  Bank  of Scotland said it had sent notice 
to Mr and Mrs S in 2011 that the flexible  options were no longer available.
Our investigator said Bank of Scotland had applied  the lump  sum payments correctly, to 
reduce the mortgage balance. While it should have given Mr and Mrs S clear information  
sooner, this hadnt caused them any financial loss. The investigator said Bank  of Scotland 
should pay compensation of £250  for the upset  caused by its lack of clarity.
Bank of Scotland agreed. Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree. Mr S said they had no recollection of 
receiving notice that the flexible options  were  removed  and wouldnt be re-instated. And he 
said it was unfair for Bank of Scotland to do this without consulting  them.
I sent a provisional  decision  to the parties in April 2020 as I wanted  to set out my provisional 
findings about whether it was fair for Bank of Scotland to remove the flexible options  and not 
re-instate them. In summary, I said Bank of Scotland had acted in accordance with the terms 
and conditions when  it cancelled the flexible options.  It didnt have to re-instate the flexible 
options or re-allocate the lump sum payments. But it should  have given  Mr and Mrs S clear 
information about this sooner and I thought that it should pay compensation for this.
Bank of Scotland agreed. Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree. Mr S said, in summary, they hadnt 
received notice that the flexible options  were cancelled and Bank of Scotland  should have 
made more  effort  to contact them and explain how this would affect them.  He said Bank of 
Ref: DRN12153772Scotland should have restored the flexible options  when they cleared their arrears,  or at 
least explained the consequences  before they made  lump sum payments in 2017.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
The flexible options agreement and the mortgage terms and conditions allow Bank of 
Scotland to cancel  the available credit  and flexible options in certain  circumstances. 
In early 2011 Bank of Scotland sent notice to Mr and Mrs S that it withdrew the flexible 
options and further borrowing. Its letter said this was because Mr and Mrs S had missed  a 
monthly payment  and exceeded their borrowing limit. Mr and Mrs S say they dont recollect 
receiving this letter. 
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs S dont remember receiving the letter. But theres nothing to 
suggest this was due to an error by Bank of Scotland. I think Bank of Scotland most likely 
sent the letter, and I think it was entitled to do so. Mr and Mrs S hadnt complied with the 
terms of the flexible options  agreement  as theyd missed a payment and exceeded  the credit 
limit. I dont think Bank of Scotland  had to consult Mr and Mrs S before giving notice it 
withdrew the flexible  options and further  borrowing   or that it was unfair that it didnt do so.
Mr and Mrs S made overpayments in 2017 which Mr S says was enough to cover  their 
monthly payments  in 2018. He also says the mortgage balance is less than their credit limit, 
and so they should be able to re-draw money up to the credit limit.
But when Mr and Mrs S made overpayments in 2017  these  were  payments to their mortgage  
account. The mortgage terms say any part of the advance that is repaid cant  be re-drawn. 
Mr and Mrs S no longer had the benefit of the flexible options agreement. They  were  no 
longer able to re-draw  up to what used to be their credit limit or use the other  flexible options  
that had been available  to them before  2011.
I do understand that Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed. But I dont think Bank of Scotland 
made an error when  it used their overpayments to reduce  the mortgage balance.  
The mortgage terms require Mr and Mrs S to make  a payment each month. The payments 
made by Mr and Mrs S have been  irregular   reflecting the irregular income from their 
business. I appreciate  their frustration that they made overpayments  in 2017 and these cant  
now be used to cover any missed or underpayments. But I dont think Bank  of Scotland  
made an error when  it said there were arrears  on their account.
Bank of Scotland considered whether Mr and Mrs Ss overpayments  could be re-allocated  
and confirmed that it cant do this. It says Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage now operates like a 
standard mortgage and re-allocation of overpayments isnt something it offers its mortgage 
customers. In the circumstances,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to require  Bank of 
Scotland to re-allocate the overpayments made by Mr and Mrs S in 2017 to the monthly 
payments due after the payments were  received.
Ref: DRN12153773Mr S discussed the account with Bank of Scotland in May 2018. Mr S pointed out hed made  
significant overpayments in 2017.  Bank of Scotland agreed to hold collection activity  and to 
check if anything could  be done  with the way the overpayments were  allocated. Mr S wasnt 
given a clear and correct  answer about this until December  2018. But I dont think I can fairly 
find that Mr and Mrs S would have acted  differently  if theyd been given correct  information in 
May 2018. They didnt maintain monthly  payments  in 2019, after being given correct 
information in December 2018. I do think though that its right for Bank  of Scotland to pay 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused by it not giving clear  information in 
2018. I understand how frustrating it must  have  been for Mr S to call and have essentially 
the same  conversation with Bank of Scotland on a number of occasions. I think 
compensation of £250 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr S says they made  overpayments in 2017  so that they could take a payment  holiday in 
2018 and 2019 and use income for other  purposes. He says they wouldnt have made 
overpayments if theyd  known they couldnt take a payment  holiday in 2018. I appreciate 
what Mr S says,  but I dont think Bank of Scotland made an error. It didnt know that Mr and 
Mrs S were  planning a payment holiday in 2018 or that they hadnt received the notice 
cancelling the flexible options,  so it wouldnt have been prompted to explain the 
circumstances to them.
Mr S says they didnt  stop payments in 2018  and 2019 because  they had financial 
difficulties. However, Mr S says having to pay the arrears now instead of Bank of Scotland  
agreeing to re-allocate the overpayments  might put pressure on them  due to the effect on 
businesses of our Government  bringing  in restrictions related  to the coronavirus (Covid-19)  
pandemic. For the reasons Ive given, I dont  think its fair and reasonable to require Bank of 
Scotland to re-allocate the lump sum payments. But if they do have difficulty with their 
payments, I would encourage Mr and Mrs S to contact Bank of Scotland to discuss  what  
help it can offer.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Bank of Scotland  plc to pay £250 to Mr 
and Mrs S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 June  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1215377