K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs M, who are represented by a claims management company, (CMC)  complain  
that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) rejected their claim under  sections 75 and 140 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect  of a timeshare.
 
Background
In 1997, while on holiday Mr and Mrs M were told they had won a free holiday and 
transferred to a new holiday  complex. They were invited to join a holiday club which  would 
give them  access to a range of apartments at different  resorts.  They  say they were  subjected 
to pressurised selling  and were told it would be an investment which they could sell later.
Later when  they had returned home they were visited by a broker. They took out a mortgage  
for £67,285.15. This was paid off some two years later. Ownership of the club has changed 
and more recently Mr and Mrs M wanted to sell their asset, but found  they were  unable to do 
so. 
They say they were approached some years later by someone  who persuaded them to 
transfer ownership to another entity  and paid an administration  fee of £4,500. The complex  
was taken over by another company in 2005 and by another in 2016.
They also had difficulty in finding suitable  holidays to suit their needs.  They  say they 
continued to be subjected to sales pressure to buy another timeshare product. I understand 
maintenance fees have increased and standards have not. 
The CMC submitted claim to the BoS which  had taken  over the original  lender.  It had little in 
the way of records given the time which had elapsed and asked  for any documentation held 
by Mr and Mrs M. It wished to know who sold the mortgage and if it could be shown that it 
had been responsible it would investigate further.
The CMC brought  a complaint to this service and it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He said that the rules under which we work  
set out certain  timescales fort the bringing  of a complaint.  We cannot  look at a complaint if it 
was made  more than:
1. Six years after the event complained of; or if later
2. Three years from when the customer was aware,  or ought reasonably  to have been
aware, of cause for complaint.
He said the event about which they were complaining was the refusal of BoS to accept their 
claim. This happened  in 2019  and so he believed it fell within  our jurisdiction.
He thought the other part of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  concerned the sale of the mortgage,
although he couldnt see anything specific had been raised about this in their letter, which  
was centred on the alleged misrepresentation of the supplier who sold them the timeshare.
However, he had not seen any evidence to show BoS was responsible  for the sale of the 
mortgage. He also didnt believe this service could  consider the sale of the mortgage since  
that happened more than six years  previously.
Ref: DRN10985362He also considered the relevance of sections  75 and 140 since this was the basis of the 
claim. His conclusion  was that it didnt provide a route under which  a successful claim could 
be made. The CMC said Mr and Mrs M wished to appeal and no further evidence or 
arguments were provided. 
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr and Mrs M, but I do not consider I can uphold their complaint. 
I will explain  why.
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage to fund their purchase of the timeshare, though  the 
precise details are far from clear. It seems  that a broker  acting for the timeshare company 
arranged the loan and this was used to make the purchase. There  is no direct  connection 
between BoS and the timeshare company. It seems the mortgage was taken out against the 
private residence and the money  so raised  was then used  to make the purchase. 
I have seen no evidence  to show that BoS acted as broker and so I cannot say that be held 
responsible for any misrepresentation.  It simply  granted a loan made against the security of 
their home and it was open to Mr and Mrs M to use the funds as they saw fit. There is no 
evidence to show that BoS acted  on behalf  of the timeshare company or promoted it 
products or stood  in its shoes in this transaction. In short  Mr and Mrs M said we want  to 
borrow some  money against our property and BoS agreed.
The CMC has said that this claim is made under  sections 75 and 140 Consumer Credit  Act 
10974. Sections 75 and 140 Consumer Credit  Act address  specific  types of credit such  as 
point of sale loans  and credit card purchases. They do not extend  to mortgages and so I 
cannot see that any claim under this legislation can be effective. Nor am I aware of any other  
consumer protection  which would allow then to successfully pursue  BoS for the alleged  
misrepresentation. 
Our investigator has addressed the matter to time limits and I agree that any complaint that 
could have been made under Section 75 would have been in time since  the event 
complained about was the refusal  to accept the claim. However, as I have explained there  is 
no valid basis for the claim. 
In summary  I cannot say BoS did anything wrong  in rejecting the claim since  it had no valid 
basis. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 1 May 2021.
Ref: DRN10985363Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1098536