K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Nationwide  Building Society (Nationwide)  has mis-sold him a fee 
paying FlexPlus packaged bank account  in September 2015.
He says he had recently  suffered from a medical condition and told the member of staff 
about this and was assured that hed be covered for his condition under the travel insurance  
provided by the FlexPlus account.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and thought that the FlexPlus  account had 
been mis-sold and said that Nationwide should  refund  Mr Ms FlexPlus account  fees,  plus 
interest. But she said that Nationwide could deduct  the cost of standalone breakdown cover,  
as she thought that it was likely  Mr M wouldve  still paid for this cover,  had he not been  sold 
the FlexPlus account.
Nationwide said that it was reasonable to also deduct the cost of travel insurance and that 
when the cost of this is combined with the cost of alternative breakdown cover,  Mr M 
wouldve paid more  for alternative  cover than what he actually paid for the FlexPlus account. 
Given this Nationwide  did not think any redress was due.
Mr M agreed  with the adjudicators recommended redress.  But apart from its earlier  
objection to the adjudicators view, Nationwide did not provide any further comments 
regarding the adjudicators most recent view of the complaint.
So the complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website and Ive taken that into consideration when  looking at this complaint.
Did Nationwide provide  Mr M with clear enough  information for him to decide if the FlexPlus 
account was right for him?
Mr M says that in early  2015 his wife unfortunately  suffered from seizures caused by an 
unknown medical  condition and he also unfortunately  suffered  from a medical condition that 
required surgery. As a result, he had to cancel a trip that he and his wife were due to go on. 
Following this, in September 2015,  Mr M says he went into branch and was asked if hed like 
to upgrade his current account to a fee-paying FlexPlus packaged bank account. Mr M says 
that he thought  it would be a good idea to get travel  insurance that would cover him for his 
condition, should  he travel again. 
Mr M says that he told Nationwide about his medical  condition  and was told hed be eligible 
for cover. However, Nationwide  says that its staff would not have confirmed if his condition 
would be covered and wouldve instead  instructed  Mr M to contact  the travel  insurer  to check  
if hed be covered.
Ref: DRN13975712When selling  packaged accounts, Nationwide is required to give clear, fair and not 
misleading information so that consumers can make an informed choice whether to upgrade 
to a packaged bank account  or not. And in this case, although its clear that Mr M was given 
some information about the account and associated benefits, I think  Nationwide  has failed to 
provide Mr M with all of the important information  in a clear and non-misleading way. 
Unfortunately, there is no record  of what was discussed during the sale. So its difficult for 
me to know  what exactly was discussed.  However,  based on what  Mr M has said and his 
circumstances at the time, I think its more likely than not that he wouldve mentioned his 
condition during the sale. After all, hed had to cancel  a trip not that long before  he agreed to 
the upgrade because of medical conditions.  And I think it was important to him that his 
condition would be covered by the travel insurance  provided by the account.
Mr M says that he was told hed be eligible for the travel insurance, after telling Nationwide  
about his condition. However, being eligible for cover does  not usually mean that his specific  
condition would be covered, but that hed be covered by the policy  as a whole. And having 
considered what  Nationwide has said about its sales process, I wouldve expected either  the 
seller to have put Mr M onto the phone with the insurer during  the sale,  or Mr M to have 
checked with the insurer whether the condition would be covered shortly after the sale, had it 
been made clear  that he needed  to do so. But I cant see that either happened around the 
time of the sale.
Based on Mr Ms recollections  of the sale and the other evidence  that is available,  it appears 
that the need to contact the travel insurer to check that his condition would be covered 
wasnt made clear enough.  And I think Mr M was misled into thinking that his condition would 
be covered by the travel insurance,  perhaps  because the seller assured Mr M that he was 
eligible for the travel insurance when Mr M mentioned  his medical condition. When  actually it 
wouldnt be known whether Mr Ms condition would be covered, without him first checking 
with the insurer.  
As such I dont think, given the specific circumstances of this case, that Mr Ms information 
needs were met.
Did Mr M lose out because  Nationwide didnt provide clear enough information to him?
In establishing  whether  Mr M lost out because  of Nationwides failure to provide clear 
enough information to him, I have considered what I think would more likely  than not have 
happened had things gone  as they shouldve.
Given the importance of Mr Ms condition,  I think its likely that he wouldve contacted  the 
insurer either during  the sale or shortly  after to check  that his condition would be covered,  if 
it had been made clear  that hed need to do so. I understand  that Mr Ms wife fell ill after he 
took the FlexPlus account and she sadly passed  away in mid-2018.  This meant  that Mr M 
wasnt able to travel abroad  until late 2018  and Mr M contacted the travel  insurance provider 
at this point as he was looking to travel. It was at this point that Mr M discovered that hed 
never been covered for the condition and that the insurer would not have provided cover for 
it  even for an additional premium. And Mr M switched back to a free account a short  time 
later.
Ref: DRN13975713Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that he would  more likely than not have decided 
against taking  the account in the first place if hed called the insurer  as it ought to have 
been made clear  that he needed  to - and been  told that he would not be covered for his 
condition. The reason I say this is because  Mr Ms actions  in switching to a free account 
shortly after learning his condition wasnt covered strongly suggests to me that being 
covered for his condition was important to Mr M. After all he says he raised it during the sale 
and he checked  hed be covered when he intended  to make travel plans in 2018 as well. 
I accept that Mr M looked to have been interested in the breakdown cover on the FlexPlus 
account. But given  that he switched back to a free account and returned to having  
standalone cover, I think its more likely  than not Mr M would have kept his existing 
breakdown cover and not taken the FlexPlus account if things had played out as they should 
have.
I therefore think Mr M lost out because  of what I think Nationwide did wrong during the sale 
of the FlexPlus account.
Because of this I think it is reasonable that Nationwide should put Mr M back  into the 
position he wouldve  been in had he not been sold the FlexPlus account.
Putting things  right
The adjudicator recommended that Nationwide refund Mr M all of his account  fees,  plus pay 
him 8% simple  interest, less tax.
However, Nationwide has said that based on how much  Mr M wouldve had to pay for annual 
travel insurance that did cover his condition and his existing breakdown cover,  this wouldve 
been more than what he did pay for the FlexPlus account. So it says he didnt suffer  a 
financial loss as a result of being mis-sold  the FlexPlus  account.
Ive considered all of the points raised from both sides about how to fairly  and reasonably put 
things right in this case. And having  done so, I think that Nationwide should refund all of the 
fees Mr M paid for the account, but it is reasonable that an amount for annual  breakdown  
cover can be deducted  from this. I think that this is fair and reasonable because  Mr M had 
existing cover, which he cancelled in favour of the cover provided  by the FlexPlus account.  
And he took breakdown cover out after his account had been downgraded as well. 
So, in my view, had Mr M not been  sold the packaged bank account,  I think  its more likely  
than not that Mr M would have retained his exiting breakdown cover.  And when he took 
cover back  out more recently  Mr M paid £57 for annual cover. So I think  its reasonable that 
an equivalent amount can be deducted on a pro rata basis,  for the duration  he held the 
packaged account.
Turning to the travel insurance, I understand that Mr M initially agreed to the FlexPlus 
account because  of the travel insurance.  And Nationwide has argued that its reasonable to 
say that Mr M would instead  have taken out annual cover and had to pay extra  to cover his 
condition. But Mr M never  got round to travelling  whilst he held the FlexPlus account. I 
understand the reason  for this is that his wife sadly suffered  from a series of progressive  
illnesses which led to Mr M becoming a carer  for his wife, until she passed away  in 2018. 
Ref: DRN13975714Furthermore, when looking for travel  for future trips Mr M has sought single trip cover. 
Bearing in mind Mr Ms circumstances for the majority of the time that he held the FlexPlus 
account, I think its unlikely that he wouldve taken out annual travel cover  at the outset and I 
think its even more  unlikely that he would have  maintained such  cover as the prospect of 
travelling regularly looked to be diminishing as his wifes health deteriorated. Therefore, I 
dont think it would be reasonable for Nationwide to make any deduction  from the redress  for 
alternative travel insurance in this case,  as in my view any deduction made on this basis  
would be too speculative and unlikely to reflect  what more likely than not would have 
happened had things gone  as they should  have done.
Because of these  reasons, I require Nationwide to do the following to put matters right: 
Refund all of the FlexPlus account  fees that Mr M was charged;
Pay 8% simple interest on those fees, less deductible tax; and if it wants to
Deduct £57 per annum from the total amount above, on a pro rata basis  for the time 
that he held the FlexPlus  account.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must  give 
Mr M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I uphold  this complaint and require  Nationwide  
Building Society to do what  I have  set out above  to put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1397571