K821x#15complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Allianz Insurance Plc wont pay her home insurance claim for 
accidental damage  to a laptop and camera.
background
In November 2017 Mrs W made a claim to Allianz for accidental damage  following her 
spilling liquid  on her laptop.  As she tried to save the laptop, she knocked her camera to the 
floor. It had been  attached  to the laptop  for her to transfer some  photos. She showed 
receipts to Allianz   one in her name  in respect  of the camera and the other  in her 
grandsons name in respect of the laptop.  She said she had purchased the laptop from her 
grandson when he moved abroad in 2015.
Allianz asked to inspect  the laptop. When it did so it found that all the data had been wiped 
from it so it couldnt establish any id, when  it was last used or whether  it had been  used, as 
Mrs W said, for transferring photos.  It said it couldnt establish that Mrs W owned  the laptop,  
and her grandson  didnt  live with her so it wouldnt be covered  under the policy.  It said that 
as all the data had been wiped that had prejudiced its position.  
In respect of the camera Mrs W said the battery cover became twisted  when it dropped.  She 
produced a letter from a repairer  saying it was irreparable. This was because the 
motherboard had extensive faults,  so there was no point in repairing the battery cover. 
Allianz said that the damage wasnt consistent  with the camera  being  dropped.   
On referral to this service,  our adjudicator said that Allianz should pay the claim as he didnt 
see the relevance of the data being  wiped. He was satisfied that Mrs W had adequately 
shown that the camera  and laptop had been in her possession since  her grandson had 
moved abroad so showed in his view that they belonged to her. He proposed that Allianz  pay 
her £50 compensation for inconvenience.
Allianz disagreed   it had seen no evidence that Mrs W had bought the laptop from her 
grandson, which Mrs W should have been able to provide. As the laptop had been 
completely wiped of data,  it had no evidence to show when it had last been used. It wouldnt 
pay the claim for the camera  as it said the faulty motherboard was inconsistent with the item 
being dropped.
Mrs W pointed  out that the camera belonged to her and that Allianz had alleged  that the 
motherboard had faults on it, not consistent  with it being dropped. Although she maintained 
that the camera was working before it was dropped.
I issued a provisional decision. I said I thought that Allianz should  settle  the claim for the 
laptop as I thought it had been  shown that it belonged to Mrs W. There  wasnt  any doubt  that 
the camera belonged to Mrs W  Allianz had alleged that the damage wasnt  consistent with 
it being dropped.  I said Allianz should  reconsider the claim for the camera. I also said it 
should pay £50 compensation.
Allianz didnt respond to my provisional  decision.
Mrs W essentially accepted my decision  but pointed out that she had been without her 
laptop for two years. She noted  that interest  would be added  in the case of a cash settlement 
but queried what would happen if Allianz provided a replacement.
Ref: DRN12133402my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows (with  a couple of alterations of dates in the first and 
second paragraphs):
laptop
Mrs W says the laptop was damaged by liquid being spilled over it. Allianzs contractor has 
said the damage to the laptop is consistent with a liquid spill. So I think  that Mrs W has 
reasonably established the circumstances of the accident. As for the ownership  of the item, 
the receipt is in her grandsons name. The original purchase was in early 2015. I understand 
that Mrs W used  it to do business from home 
I am satisfied from the evidence Mrs W has shown us that her grandson did move  abroad 
from about August  2015. So on the basis that taking such  equipment to be used in another 
country might be difficult, I think it plausible  that Mrs Ws grandson sold the laptop to her. He 
returned to this country in 2017  but the evidence  I have seen indicated that his move  was 
intended to be permanent.
As regards  the data being wiped, I understand that Mrs Ws grandson,  who has technical  
expertise, did this. He advised Mrs W it should be done for security purposes. As Mrs Ws 
account of the accident has been  confirmed by the report on the laptop, I cant  see that the 
loss of that data has prejudiced Allianz.
So I think Allianz should settle the claim for the laptop subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
camera
So far as the camera is concerned, I dont think that its been alleged  that this didnt belong 
to Mrs W - the receipt  is in her name.  As I understand it Allianz wont pay the claim in 
respect of this as it says the motherboard has extensive faults which are irreparable. It says 
that this is inconsistent with the item being dropped. However the information about  the 
motherboard came  from the repairers  Mrs W instructed. They  didnt give an opinion  as to 
whether that was consistent or not with the camera being dropped. Mrs W says it was 
working prior to the accident.
As Allianz  didnt inspect  the camera, I think it should  now reconsider the claim for it to 
establish whether  the faults with the motherboard are linked to it being accidentally  dropped.
compensation
I agree  that Mrs W has been caused some inconvenience by Allianzs handling of her claim 
and propose to award her £50 compensation.
In respect of Mrs Ws query, the purpose  of adding interest to the cash  settlement would be 
to account for matters  like the up to date price  for the laptop, or if shed had to spend her 
own money replacing it. This wouldnt apply if Allianz replaced  the laptop.  The compensation 
Ref: DRN12133403award is in respect  of the inconvenience caused  to Mrs W, including her not having the use 
of it. 
Im satisfied by my provisional findings  and will make no further comment  on them.  Those 
findings now form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Allianz  Insurance Plc to:
Settle Mrs Ws claim for her laptop  subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. If it pays a cash settlement it should add interest* at 8% simple from the date of 
loss to the date it pays the settlement.
Reconsider the claim for the camera subject to the remaining terms and conditions  of the 
policy.
Pay Mrs W £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
* Allianz  Insurance  Plc is required by HM Revenue  and Customs to deduct tax from any 
interest paid. Should Mrs W request it, it should  provide  her with a certificate  showing how 
much tax has been taken  off so that, if appropriate,  she can reclaim it.
Ref: DRN1213340