K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about charges for repairs that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc is asking him to pay.
background
Mr C entered into a hire agreement with Hitachi for a new car. He told us that the car had 
quality problems throughout the contract which he told Hitachi about  but it didnt put things 
right. In the meantime, Mr C kept on using the car. 
However, when they could not come to any agreement  about what  to do about the car, he 
agreed to end the agreement early. At this point, to his surprise,  he then found out that 
Hitachi wanted to charge  him for damage to the car. Some of this damage  he attributes to 
what he says are the quality faults with the car. The rest of the damage he says is just wear 
and tear. Mr C objected to Hitachi charging  him for any of this damage. Plus he was worried 
that if he doesnt pay it this will ruin his credit  rating.
Hitachi responded to say that their agreement  allows it to charge him for any damage that 
goes beyond wear  and tear. But it agreed it had to demonstrate the damage  was present, if 
it wanted to charge him for it. The way it did this was by preparing a report  which  included  
photos of the damage. On reflection, when it looked  at the photos  in the report  again,  it 
thought there was not enough evidence to show that some  of the damage was there. As a 
result, it waived the charge for that damage. But as to the rest of the damage, it thought that 
this was caused by Mr C, and it could show that it was there. Further,  it thought  the damage 
went beyond wear  and tear, and therefore it could  charge him for it.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr C came to our service.
When Mr Cs complaint  was with us, Hitachi said, in passing that it had investigated  the 
quality issues that Mr C had complained  about.  But it had not found anything wrong with the 
car. It also confirmed that it had not asked that any late payment markers be added  to Mr Cs 
credit file in relation to this complaint.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint. He did not recommend upholding it. In 
summary, he took on board that the agreement says Hitachi  can charge Mr C for damage 
that amounts  to more than wear and tear. The agreement also says the parties  will use the 
industry guidance provided  by the BVRLA,  to assess if any damage meets this threshold. 
Our investigator looked at the damage and the guidelines. He concluded that Hitachi  was 
charging Mr C in line with the guidelines.  In the circumstances, he didnt find that Hitachi was 
acting unfairly. It followed he had no proper basis to tell Hitachi  to waive  the charges.
Hitachi accepted  our investigators  recommendation, Mr C did not. In short,  he repeated his 
earlier stance. He also added further  details. He told us the charges were  excessive. The 
carpet had become worn but this was either because  the clutch  was in the wrong place or 
because the carpet wasnt up to the job. He wasnt responsible for this. He explained hed 
not said anything  to Hitachi about this before  now as it hadnt stopped him from driving the 
car. In addition, it had not been his priority  because he had been taking the car in out of the 
garage for electrical  problems. He also mentioned how he had lost money when  the car was 
off the road while the electrical problems  were investigated.
Ref: DRN10182362Later on still, Mr C added that other hirers  had complained about  the quality of the carpet, 
which supported  his positon that the damage  wasnt caused by anything he had done.  He 
told us according to social media,  the manufacturer had recognised  the problem and had 
replaced the carpet for free in other cars. He also said the carpet  should  have been covered 
by the warranty. He pointed out that he had taken  the car to be serviced at the correct times 
so this should have been sorted then.  Further,  he said Hitachi had taken away the car at 
short notice and as a result hed not had time to get the repairs done.  
In answer to these points  our investigator looked at Mr Cs complaint again. He still didnt 
agree that the complaint  should be upheld. He said this because, he didnt agree that the 
charges were so disproportionate that it would  be unfair for Hitachi ask Mr C to pay them.  Mr 
C was relying on evidence from forums that had posted information  about the situation in 
2012-2015. Our investigator thought  this information was out of date and he didnt think this 
was relevant to Mr Cs situation.  
Mr C had told us the manufacturer  had agreed  it was responsible for the wear in the carpet. 
But when our investigator checked  he could  not see anything directly  from the manufacturer 
which backed up what Mr C said. He thought even if the warranty ought to have covered the 
carpet it was Mr Cs responsibility to sort this out under the warranty. It didnt seem he had 
ever tried to use the warranty for this purpose. He didnt agree that as part of the servicing 
the carpet should  have been seen to. Finally, he saw nothing  to indicate that Mr C had been 
intending to repair the carpet and would have done so but for Hitachi taking the car back so 
quickly.
Hitachi accepted  our investigators  recommendation but Mr C rejected it for all of the same 
reasons as he had already given us.
Mr C asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have now finished looking  at Mr Cs 
complaint. I have decided not to uphold it. I realise  this will disappoint Mr C, that is not my 
intention, far from it. Please let me explain why Ive come  to this decision.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Ref: DRN10182363Mr C and Hitachi both agree that their contract allows Hitachi  to charge Mr C for any damage 
that goes beyond wear  and tear. Mr C says, amongst other things,  that the damage is only 
wear and tear. Hitachi says it is much more than this. 
However, the agreement  says that when assessing the extent of the damage the parties  will 
rely on industry guidance that is the BVRLA  guidelines. So I have taken  a look at these, and 
compared them to the damage that Hitachi had documented  in a report done by an expert  
third party. When I do this, I can see that the damage goes beyond the relevant threshold. 
That means that on the face of it, Hitachi is entitled to charge  Mr C as it has done.
That said,  Mr C says it is not as simple as that, at least  in relation to some  of the damage.  
He talks about the quality  of the car. He tells us the car has electrical problems (although 
Hitachi says it does  not) he also tells us the damage to the carpet was due to the location of 
the clutch and the substandard nature of the carpet.
I realise that Mr C feels strongly  that quality issues were at play here.  But I think  this is a new 
issue which I dont have  the power  to look at. I say this because  the issue  of the quality of 
the car has not been looked  at in any detail by Hitachi  beyond its passing comment that it did 
not find any electrical issues. This issue was not considered  by Hitachi in its final response 
to Mr C and it needs  to be given an opportunity to investigate this issue and tell Mr C what it 
thinks about it before this service can take a look. It follows that I am unable to look at this 
matter in this final decision.
I also realise that Mr C feels Hitachi is charging him too much for the repairs.  But he does  
not tell us how he has reached  this conclusion, or shown what like for like repairs  might 
generally costs. So it is difficult  to gauge what he has based his assessment on. In any 
event, I dont agree that the fees are so disproportionate that it would not be fair and 
reasonable to allow  Hitachi to ask him to pay them.  
It is possible that the warranty might have  covered  the cost of the carpet. But it is Mr C who 
has the benefit of the warranty it was down to him to raise  this, not Hitachi. As far as I can 
see, he chose  not to do this when he had the chance. Further, I would expect the service  to 
pick up serviceable  items  but Mr C hasnt demonstrated that that the carpet  was a 
serviceable item. In any event, the damage to the carpet is just one of the faults found in the 
report. The majority of the damage is made up of dents and scratches which  Mr C hasnt 
said were covered by the warranty or should have been picked up when  the car was 
serviced.
Mr C suggests he has not had a fair opportunity to make the repairs himself. But he has 
been very consistent in his stance. He has told us the damage is wear and tear so he is not 
responsible for it. Since that was his position, I dont think it is likely he would have done 
something about the repairs,  even if Hitachi had given him more  time before it collected the 
car.
It is clear that Mr C is unhappy with this car and has been for quite a while. I can only 
imagine how frustrated  he was when he was taking the car back and forth to the garage for it 
to be looked at. I can also, he holds Hitachi responsible for the money he says he lost while 
this was happening. I can well imagine that being  asked to pay for this damage was the final 
straw for him. But whilst I can see that he may see it like that, for the reasons I have set out 
above, I think I have  no proper basis to ask Hitachi to waive the charges.
Ref: DRN10182364Mr C is worried  about the information that Hitachi might ask to be registered  on his credit  file. 
It says it has not sent anything to the credit  reference agencies  about late payments in 
relation to this complaint. I have found that it is fair and reasonable for Hitachi  to pursue him 
for these  charges.  So if it had already asked for information about this to be registered  Id not 
be able to tell it to do otherwise. And it is possible that Hitachi  may now start sending this 
information to the credit  reference agencies.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1018236