K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the settlement  offered for a gold ring by Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited in respect of a claim for theft under their home insurance.
background
In January 2018 Mr and Mrs L suffered  a burglary at their home. A number of items  of 
jewellery were stolen. Lloyds accepted the claim and offered a settlement. For the items it 
said it could replace through its jewellers,  it offered the full value on a jewellery  card which  
Mr and Mrs L could use at certain jewellers.  For the items it couldnt replace it offered them 
the full cash value. 
There was a dispute over one particular item  a gold signet ring. Mr and Mrs L werent able 
to give a detailed  description of it. It was around 70 years old and there were no photos of it. 
Nevertheless Lloyds  said it could replace it. It initially assessed the value at £460  but agreed  
to increase this to £1,275  after Mr L argued  that it was 18 rather than 9 carat  gold. Lloyds 
offered that value  on a card or, as it could obtain  a replacement at a discounted cash  price,  it 
offered that - £670.45.
Mr and Mrs L were  unhappy with this as they felt that Lloyds  couldnt  possibly know whether 
it could replace it. They were also unhappy at the limited  time they could  use the jewellery  
card (3 months) and that it wasnt available for certain  brands  or offers.
On referral; to this service  our investigator  thought that it would be reasonable for a cash 
settlement to be offered halfway between the assessed value and the discounted cash price. 
Mr and Mrs L accepted  the proposal. Lloyd didnt  it said that it was acting in accordance 
with the policy terms in offering the reduced cash settlement. Mr and Mrs L said in that case 
they wanted the full amount as a cash settlement. 
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is just one disputed  item of jewellery.  Lloyds has agreed with Mr and Mrs L the 
amounts it will pay in cash and on a jewellery card for the other items. As far as the disputed  
item is concerned, I think both sides have made  a fair case. Where there is no proof of 
value/ownership of an item an insurer may decline to pay for the item altogether. But in a 
case where it has agreed that the rest of the items  will be paid, we would consider it 
reasonable for the insurer to pay for the remaining  item without asking for further proof. 
And Lloyds  has agreed to do that here. Nevertheless I have to bear in mind  that Mr and Mrs L 
have only been  able to supply a very brief description of the ring, as they arent clear  exactly  
what it looked like. And there are unfortunately no clear photos of it. So, based on that 
description Lloyds  has said it is able to replace the ring. And in accordance  with its policy  
terms it has offered either the full amount on a jewellery card or a discounted cash  value.
Ref: DRN12242882But I appreciate  Mr and Mrs Ls position. Given the age of the ring it seems  to me that, given 
a full description, Lloyds  would  be unlikely  to be able to replace the ring. Our investigator has 
put forward what I think to be a sensible and pragmatic compromise. That is that Lloyds pay 
a figure  by way of cash settlement halfway  between the discounted cash price and the 
valuation  of £970. I propose  to require Lloyds to pay that, or pay the full value of £1,275 on 
a jewellery card.
As for the jewellery  card,  I understand that Mr and Mrs L are concerned  that some  
items/offers arent available and that the cards only last for three  months. As the cards 
provide a full retail  value of the items  the intention is that the customers  will be able to 
replace the items stolen. They are free to choose other options but I think its fair that that it 
be limited to what is on offer, which I think is quite  wide. As to the time limit, I dont think its 
reasonable for me to interfere with the commercial arrangements Lloyds has with the 
jewellers concerned.  Its felt that three months would  be sufficient time to buy replacements.  
But Lloyds has confirmed  that the time can be extended by arrangement  through  the 
jewellers and I think  that is reasonable.
Lloyds hasnt so far paid any of the claims. It should  do so along with the settlement for the 
disputed ring.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
pay to Mr and Mrs L £970 cash in settlement of the disputed  ring or, at their option, pay 
£1,275 on a jewellery card
pay the agreed settlement for the rest of the jewellery on jewellery cards and cash.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1224288