complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund a card payment that he says he didnt  
authorise. Bank of Scotland trades in this instance  under its Halifax brand.
background
Mr C has explained that in March 2018  he was visiting  a travel agent.  Hed discussed 
holidays and handed over his passport, in response to a request from a staff member. 
Unknown to Mr C, his Halifax  debit card was inside  his passport. When  the staff member 
returned with his passport, she handed  him a booking form on which  his signature had been 
forged. In addition,  his card had been  used to take a payment of £1,720.
Mr C contacted Halifax about the payment and Halifax in turn contacted the travel agent. 
The travel agent  said that Mr C had in fact booked  a holiday  but changed his mind and tried 
to cancel  the booking  when he identified that the provider was a company with which he 
was, or had been, in dispute.  Halifax concluded  therefore that the payment had been 
authorised and any dispute  about  cancellation  of the holiday was a matter for him to take up 
with the travel agent.
Mr C referred  the matter to this service  and one of our investigators considered it. He 
concluded however that Halifax  had acted fairly; he didnt recommend a refund. Mr C didnt 
accept the investigators  conclusions  and asked that an ombudsman review  the case.
I did that and issued a provisional  decision; although  I agreed with the investigators  overall  
conclusions, my reasons  were a little different, and so I wanted to give each party  an 
opportunity to comment further before I issued a final decision.  Ive copied below my reasons 
as set out in my provisional decision:
I note first of all that this dispute arose when Mr C was dealing with the travel agent.  This 
is not a case where an unknown  person used  a bank card without authority. So there 
may be some way for Mr C to resolve  things  directly with the travel agent. But, just 
because Mr Cs dispute is with a business  known  to him doesnt mean that Halifax has 
no responsibility for the payment; it can still only debit Mr Cs account  if he authorised
the payment.
I note that the payment was made using the cards CVV number, rather than with the 
PIN. Thats  unusual, given that Mr C was present; the CVV number would usually be 
used for card not present transactions made, for example, by phone  or online. So thats 
consistent with Mr Cs case that the travel  agent  staff member  found that she had his 
card and processed the payment without his knowledge. But, as the investigator noted, 
its unlikely that Mr C would  have  been asked for his passport if all he had done was 
make an enquiry; its even  less likely  that he would have agreed to hand  it over.
K820x#14
Ref: DRN1547355K820x#14However, Mr C also said that there  was a booking form with his signature  on it and 
that the signature had been forged. He says he didnt keep a copy  of it, and we 
havent seen it. But he must have been  given that form by the travel agent. Had the 
agent wanted to take a payment without Mr Cs consent, it seems to me unlikely that 
they would  then
give him a form which (i) contained his forged signature and (ii) no doubt recorded the 
payment. Mr C has described as well how the agent  handed back his passport, card 
and the form. He says they were given to him together, but not that the card was 
inside the passport. Had the staff member  been trying to hide the fact that she had 
the card, I might have expected her to put it back exactly where shed found it, for fear 
of arousing suspicion.
For these reasons, I think it more  likely  than not that Mr C knew he was handing 
over his card and that he did so in the expectation  that payment would be taken.
Further support  for the travel agents  account  of events  is provided by Mr Cs own 
correspondence with Halifax. In a letter  raising the complaint, he referred to 
cancellation of the holiday booking. In my view that casts doubt on his case  that he 
didnt make a booking (if none had been made,  there was nothing to cancel),  as well 
as his case that the booking confirmation  form was forged.
I think that the most likely  explanation for what has happened here is that Mr C did 
make a booking and agreed to his card being  used for payment, but that - for 
whatever reason  [he] then decided against  it. So the real dispute is about the 
cancellation, not about the payment. It follows that he authorised the initial  payment 
and that Halifax does  not have  to refund it. Any dispute about his rights to cancel the 
booking and receive a refund from the travel agent is a matter  between him and the 
agent.
I said that, for the reasons set out, I wasnt minded  to require the bank to do anything 
more. Neither Mr C nor the bank  had anything to add in response  to my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Since however nothing  has been  
added following my provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland plc to take any further steps  to 
resolve Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required 
to ask Mr C to accept  or reject  my decision before 15 July 2020.
Ref: DRN15473553Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1547355