K820x#14complaint
Mr V complained about Calpe Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim on his taxi 
insurance policy.
background
Mr V was involved  in an accident  in early  June 2016, during which his taxi was damaged. 
The taxi was repaired by one of Calpes approved repairers (AR) and returned to Mr V. Soon 
after receiving the taxi back,  Mr V complained that there was a further problem.  Calpe said 
there was a fault with the transmission control unit in the gearbox so they paid to have that 
replaced and the car was returned  to Mr V. Calpe  said that the problem with the gearbox 
wasnt accident related  or anything to do with their AR, but they paid to put it right as a 
gesture of good  will. Mr V later complained about  the steering  and wanted  Calpe to put that 
right too. But Calpe said that the steering issue wasnt accident related or to do with the AR 
so they refused to fix it.
Mr V complained and said that the delays  in repairing his taxi caused  him to lose income  
because he was without  his taxi and wasnt provided  with a replacement  during the repair  to 
the gearbox. He was also unhappy that Calpe didnt give him a replacement vehicle when he 
reported the steering problems and that they didnt  repair the steering.  Mr V paid to have the 
steering repaired  himself. Calpe didnt uphold  Mr Vs complaint.
Mr V brought his complaint to our service.  One of our adjudicators looked into it and he 
thought that Calpe, in part, didnt treat Mr V fairly. He felt that Calpes decision that the 
gearbox problem  wasnt accident related wasnt reasonable. He also said that because Mr V 
was without a taxi during the gearbox repair, he was unable  to work and lost income.  Our 
adjudicator suggested that Calpe should  pay Mr Vs loss of income together with interest, 
and that Calpe should pay him £150 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience he 
suffered. Our adjudicator  felt that Calpe were  reasonable in concluding  the steering issue  
wasnt accident related.
As Calpe didnt agree, the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 18 January 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr V, but Im not intending  to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr V has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all 
those carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus  on what I consider to be the key 
issues. My role is to decide  if Calpe  have acted in a fair and reasonable way.
Mr V was provided with a replacement vehicle during the initial repairs carried  out by 
Calpes AR, so he was able to continue working  as a taxi driver. What  I have  to 
decide is whether  Calpes  decision that the gearbox and steering problems werent 
accident related  was reasonable.  
Calpes engineer said that the gearbox  and steering problems  werent  caused  as a 
result of the accident.  The engineer  is experienced in matters  like this and he is 
considered to be an expert.  There is currently no other expert or engineering 
Ref: DRN13527842evidence that says those issues were accident  related. Furthermore,  the third party 
insurers engineer  also said that the gearbox problem wasnt accident  related. So the 
only expert opinion  on file is that the gearbox and steering issues weren't caused by 
the accident. I therefore feel that Calpes decision that the gearbox and steering 
problems with Mr Vs taxi werent accident  related was reasonable. It follows  that as 
they were not accident related, under the policy, Calpe was under no obligation to 
provide Mr V with a replacement vehicle. Calpe was also under no obligation to have 
the steering problem repaired. I therefore dont intend to uphold this complaint.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Calpe didnt make any comments.  Mr V 
reiterated the difficulties he experienced after the accident and his view that Calpe were 
responsible for delays  that caused  disruption to his work as a taxi driver resulting in a loss of 
earnings.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. As explained in my provisional decision, the delays were caused as a result  of the 
gearbox and steering  problems, But on the available evidence,  Im not satisfied that they 
were related  to the accident or the workmanship  of Calpes approved repairer.  For that 
reason Im not holding them responsible for the delays and the resulting unfortunate 
problems Mr V has experienced.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or reject  
my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
 
Ref: DRN1352784