K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background 
I issued my provisional decision in February 2020.  I explained why I was planning to uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. An extract from that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr S took receipt of a used car in March 2018. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS. At the point of supply  the car was about three years old and had 
already completed  21,000 miles.
Mr S has experienced problems with the car. Within the first few days he complained  the car 
smelt of cigarettes and the wing mirror wasnt working. The garage said the smell would 
disappear when the car was valeted and the wing mirror needed some parts. But Mr S 
experienced further problems with the vehicle, as follows:
April 2018 - gearbox and clutch replaced;
July 2018 - body domain controller replaced;
November 2018  - brake discs heavily pitted and paint fading on the bumper.
In November 2018 Mr S therefore asked BMWFS to allow him to reject the car. But they 
refused. They  said there  was insufficient  evidence to suggest  they should  do that.
So Mr S referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  an opinion.  The 
adjudicator thought there was sufficient  evidence to support Mr Ss claim and that BMWFS 
should allow  him to reject  the car. The adjudicator  thought  the car hadnt  proven sufficiently 
durable and noted that several problems  had occurred  over a very limited  mileage. It was the 
adjudicators suggestion,  therefore,  that BMWFS end the agreement;  refund any deposit 
Mr S had paid and provide £250 compensation for the trouble and inconvenience Mr S had 
experienced. 
But BMWFS  didnt agree  with the adjudicators  view and they asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view but I dont agree entirely with the redress suggested. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN15358512Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr S. The car here 
was around three years  old and had travelled about  21,000 miles at the inception of the 
finance agreement. 
The relevant  legislation  also says that I should take into account whether  a car has proven to 
be suitably durable  when I consider whether its been of satisfactory quality.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask BMWFS to put this right.  
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a car developed  a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
the faults
Within six months this car had experienced significant issues. The relevant legislation allows 
BMWFS one opportunity to repair the car. I think its fair to suggest that opportunity was in 
April 2018 when they replaced  the gearbox and clutch.
Legislation does  not give BMWFS one chance  to repair each  separate component but just 
one chance to repair the car as a whole. The next fault, also reported within six months, was 
a failed body domain  controller. I think this is the second clear failure and therefore at this 
point (at the very latest) the business  should have  allowed Mr S to reject the car because  
this was likely to be a further fault that was most  probably present at the point of supply.  
BMWFS had used up their one to chance  to repair the vehicle.
I dont think it was fair for BMWFS to reject Mr Ss concerns about  the faded  paintwork on 
the basis that he wasnt covered by the warranty. They should  also have considered this 
was, in line with the relevant legislation, likely to be an issue  that was also developing at the 
point of supply.  Its another reason why Mr S should be allowed to reject the car but I think  if 
this paintwork problem  has been repaired,  the costs should be paid by BMWFS.
Ref: DRN15358513Im not persuaded that the pitted brakes  are BMWFSs responsibility. Brakes are wear and 
tear items and I dont think it would be fair to hold BMWFS  responsible for them in these 
circumstances. Ive therefore not considered  refunding  any costs that may have been 
incurred by Mr S when repairing the brakes.
I would add that even if Im wrong about this car being faulty at the point of supply. I dont 
think it has proven to be suitably durable as I dont think a reasonable person would expect 
to have to replace the gearbox, clutch body control module and brake discs on the car or 
experience paint fading when the car was only three years  old and had completed only 
25,000 miles (about  4,000 from inception). Thats another reason why Mr S should  be 
allowed to reject the car.
the redress
So I agree that BMWFS should allow  Mr S to reject the car and end the finance agreement. 
They should  also refund  his deposit and pay interest on that sum as Mr S has been  deprived 
of the money.  Id agree with the adjudicator that they should  compensate  him for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused as its clear  this complaint should have been resolved much 
earlier. In the circumstances I think £250  is reasonable.
But I dont think our adjudicator has considered the loss or impaired use Mr S has 
experienced. Ive seen  evidence that hes been without his car for a total of 32 days  over 
four periods  and Ive also noted  hes explained that he was having difficulty selecting  gears  
in the weeks before the cars gearbox was replaced.  I think, taking all this into account, 
BMWFS should refund two monthly instalments that Mr S has made towards his finance 
agreement in addition  to the redress thats  already been suggested by our adjudicator.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I am expecting to tell BMW  Financial Services  (GB)  Limited to:
terminate the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
refund Mr Ss deposit and add 8% simple interest  per annum from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced;
refund two monthly finance instalments in respect of lack of use and add 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund any costs  Mr S may have  incurred to have the bumper refurbished  if this work 
has been completed and receipts are provided;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to the credit reference agencies  in 
respect of these issues.
my findings
BMWFS had nothing further  to add but Mr S asked me to consider the driveway  insurance  
hed had to take out to store the car. He explained  that this had been necessary as he had 
lost faith in the vehicle  and the warranty  had run out. He provided a copy  of the insurance 
which had cost him £100.
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN15358514Im not persuaded that the driveway  insurance is an additional unavoidable  cost. Its been 
Mr Ss decision not to drive the car as hes explained hes been  concerned  about  anything 
else going wrong that would not be covered under warranty. But Ive not seen sufficient  
evidence that the car hasnt been driveable  or roadworthy. It appears to be MOTd until 
January 2021.  So I dont  think  it would  be fair to ask BMWFS to pay for the driveway 
insurance but I do still uphold Mr Ss complaint  and for the same reasons that I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
terminate the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
refund Mr Ss deposit and add 8% simple interest  per annum from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced;
refund two monthly finance instalments in respect of lack of use and add 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund any costs  Mr S may have  incurred to have the bumper refurbished  if this work 
has been completed and receipts are provided;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to the credit reference agencies  in 
respect of these issues.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1535851