K820x#14complaint
Ms V says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Ms V took out a regular  premium PPI policy in 1998.  This was added  to an existing store 
card she had and she paid a monthly amount for the policy.  Its been agreed in this case that 
FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms V disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Vs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Vs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms V says the policy was sold to her during  a meeting. FICL says the policy was sold during  
a telephone call a few months after she took out the store card.  Looking  at a copy of Ms Vs 
application form for the store card, I can see that she didnt opt for the PPI at that time, so I 
think the policy was sold during a telephone  call at a later date. 
During that telephone call, FICL should  have taken  reasonable steps to make  it clear to     
Ms V that the policy was optional.  Ms V says she was not aware  she had taken PPI and it 
was added without  her knowledge. Unfortunately FICL hasnt  been  able to provide any 
further information - such as a recording of that telephone call or a copy of the call script 
used at the time. So its not possible for me to know exactly what  was said at the time this 
policy was taken out. But based  on what I do know of the sales process at the time and 
given the fact the PPI was added a few months  after she applied  for the store  card, I think    
Ms V would  have understood the policy was optional when she chose to take it.
So on balance I think FICL made  it clear  that Ms V didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I understand why she cant remember  this.
FICL didnt  advise Ms V to take out the policy. So this meant it didnt have  to check  the PPI 
was suitable for Ms V. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed  to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms V about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Ms V says she had six months full sick pay followed by six months  half pay but the policy  
wouldve paid out alongside any sick pay she had. And it wouldve also covered her if she 
was made  unemployed. 
Ref: DRN17963302Ive thought about everything Ms V has said - including what  shes  said about  her daughter  
being able to help out if she wasnt able to make her repayments. I dont doubt that her 
daughter wouldve wanted to help,  but peoples situations can change. So I dont think  Ms V 
couldve necessarily relied  on her daughters help. Overall, I think it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. 
From everything Ive been given, it looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. And I dont think Ms V 
has lost out from anything FICL might have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019. 
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1796330