K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. unfairly declined their travel  insurance claim.
background
Mr and Mrs B had a holiday planned  for December 2018. They  had booked  the trip in 
November 2017  and took out an annual travel insurance policy on 2 October 2018.
They were  planning  to travel with two friends, and the holiday had been  booked as a group 
booking for all four travellers. 
Mrs Bs father sadly passed  away on 12 November  2018. And one of their travelling 
companions was subsequently diagnosed  with cancer. On 28 November 2018 the travelling 
companion was told he needed an operation urgently and was unable  to go on the holiday. 
When Mr and Mrs B contacted the travel company, they were  told that as their holiday was a 
group booking, in order  to provide  Mr and Mrs Bs travelling companion with a cancellation 
invoice, the whole booking would need to be cancelled. And no refund would be available  for 
money they had already paid towards the cost of holiday. 
Mr and Mrs B say that after much discussion with the travel  company it was then agreed that 
they could move their part of the booking if their insurance company provided a letter  stating 
that they couldnt, and hadnt, made a claim on against their insurance policy.
Mapfre said that it couldnt provide Mr and Mrs B with such a letter  because  they were  
insured for both events impacting their travel plans.  And advised  that they should make  a 
claim under their policy. 
Mr and Mrs B submitted a claim  in December 2018  but didnt hear anything further. They  
contacted Mapfre  again in February  2019 and found that their claim had not yet been looked 
at. 
Mapfre then declined their claim due to the close proximity of their policy purchase and 
Mrs Bs father receiving  a medical referral for lower abdominal pain. It said that the purpose 
of insurance is to provide cover for unforeseen and unexpected circumstances,  and that as 
the policy was purchased  after her fathers referral  it felt Mr and Mrs B were aware of a 
circumstance that may give rise to a claim when they purchased  the policy.
Mr and Mrs B said that the main  reason for cancelling  their holiday was their travelling 
companions operation,  and the need for their travelling companion and his wife to obtain a 
cancellation invoice  so that they could make a claim themselves - which was settled in full.
In September  2020 I issued a provisional  decision which said: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Im very sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs B experienced two very traumatic  events in 
close succession. Its clear that it was a very difficult and challenging time for Mr and 
Mrs B both in terms of the news of their close friend and the loss of Mrs Bs father. 
Ref: DRN15044942The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Mapfre has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim  unreasonably.  
Throughout the complaint process  there was a lot of focus on whether Mr and Mrs B 
bought their policy following the referral  of Mrs Bs father  to a consultant following 
abdominal discomfort.  But I dont think that is central  to the outcome of this complaint 
for the reasons Ill go on to explain.  
Mr and Mrs B were  due to travel  on 16 December with their two close  friends.  This 
was intended  to be a special holiday to celebrate Mr and Bs wedding anniversary. I 
can see that it was an expensive trip and had been  booked for a long time. So, I 
accept that Mr and Mrs B have said about  this being a holiday of a lifetime  for them.  
Mr and Mrs B have  a premier plus policy which covers them  for cancellation  costs  of 
up to £5000 per person.  The policy  terms and conditions say that the policy  will 
provide cover if: 
Cancellation of the Trip is necessary and unavoidable as a result of any of the 
following events occurring. 
1.The death, Bodily injury, illness of Complications of Pregnancy  and Childbirth: 
(a)You 
(b)Your travelling companion 
Travelling companion is defined as: 
A person(s)  with whom You have  booked to travel or are travelling with on the same  
booking invoice and without whom Your travel plans  would be impossible.  
Mr and Mrs Bs friends appeared on the booking invoice  as Mr B had booked for the 
group. 
The holiday  was due to start on 16 December, although the group had planned to 
stay overnight at the airport on the 15 December. On the 26 November their 
travelling companion was diagnosed with lymphatic cancer. Ive seen a letter from his 
consultant which confirms that and a letter confirming he was booked for surgery  on 
11 December, which was just a few days before the holiday was due to start.  The trip 
was cancelled on 28 November. 
Im aware that there was a discussion between Mr and Mrs B and Mapfre  about 
potentially moving  the trip and whether Mr and Mrs B had a valid claim. Mapfre isnt 
able to provide  a copy of the call at the moment,  for reasons that are entirely  valid. 
But, I dont think it is central  to the outcome  of this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B had a group  booking and decided to cancel.  I also bear in mind  that 
Mr and Mrs B were  dealing with the sudden death of her father  and the illness  of their 
travelling companion, with whom  its clear they had a close friendship. It would have 
taken a lot of administration and further work to try and make  their travel plans work 
as it was a group booking. And, understandably, at that point in time it was unclear 
when theyd be able to travel as a group again. So, I think  Mr and Mrs B could 
reasonably expect their travel insurance  policy to cover them  in such  circumstances, 
particularly as the surgery was so close to the date of travel. 
Ref: DRN15044943I think it was unreasonable for Mapfre to decline the claim in the circumstances of 
this case. Mr and Mrs Bs friends were on their invoice and therefore it seems  most 
likely to me that, as it was a group booking, it wouldnt have been possible for Mr and 
Mrs B to travel as planned. So, I think it is fair and reasonable  that Mapfre  covers the 
claim up to the policy limits. 
Im also satisfied there was some  delay in progressing the claim when it was first 
submitted and that as a result it took longer to resolve the claim than it should. I also 
dont think Mapfre fully considered the circumstances of the claim, in particular the 
health of the travelling companion. I think they should pay Mr and Mrs B £100 
compensation to acknowledge  the distress and inconvenience  caused. 
I concluded that Mapfre needed to put things right by:
Settling the claim, subject to the remaining limits of the policy
Paying 8% simple  interest from the date that the claim was declined to the date of 
settlement
Paying £100  compensation  to Mr and Mrs B. 
Both parties  accepted my provisional findings  and didnt have any further  comments. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
As both parties accepted my provisional  decision and didnt add any further  comments 
theres no reason  for me to reach different  conclusions to those  I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
Im upholding this complaint for the reasons Ive set out above and in my provisional 
decision. 
putting things right
Mapfre needs to put things  right by:
Settling the claim, subject to the remaining limits of the policy
Paying 8% simple  interest from the date that the claim was declined to the date of 
settlement
Paying £100  compensation  to Mr and Mrs B. 
If Mapfre considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much  its taken off. It should  also give them  a 
tax deduction  certificate  if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN15044944my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and directing Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to put things  right in the way Ive outlined 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 11 December  2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1504494