K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way a claim under their home  insurance  policy  has been 
handled by Society  of Lloyds.
background
In June 2017 Mr and Mrs S made a claim to Lloyds after a water leak. It accepted  the claim 
and appointed contractors to strip out, dry and then repair the property.
There were a number of issues with the repairs started.  Lloyds  accepted that Mr and Mrs S 
had received poor service and paid them £500  compensation in recognition of this.
Mr and Mrs S complained again to Lloyds. In summary they were unhappy that:
there is about  a 12mm height  difference between  the kitchen floor and the adjoining 
hallway;
its contractor chipped  a tile in their hallway;
there were delays  in handling the claim and poor communication.
Lloyds said it wouldnt replace the kitchen  tiles but offered  to put a bar in place  which it said 
would provide a neat join between the different tiles. It offered to repair  the chipped tile and 
remedy the other snagging issues.  It also offered a further £300 compensation.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. 
He thought Lloyds should relay the tiles in the kitchen  so that they line up in height with the 
tiles in the hallway. He also thought Lloyds should repair the chipped  tile in the hallway and 
pay a total of £400 compensation including the extra £300 already offered.
Lloyds didnt agree.  It said Mr and Mrs S had chosen the kitchen  tiles which  were  much 
thicker than the original  tiles. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ss policy is a policy  of indemnity. That means it should aim to put them  back  in 
the position they were in just before the loss or damage happened.
Thats not whats happened in respect of Mr and Mrs Ss kitchen floor.  Lloyds agrees that 
the new kitchen  tiles are a lot higher than the previous flooring, causing a large  step 
whereas previously the kitchen floor tiles were  level with the tiles in the hallway. 
Lloyds appears  to blame Mr and Mrs S for this because they chose the new kitchen tiles 
which are a little thicker than the original tiles. Mr and Mrs S say that the difference is 
minimal and if this were  the only difference in floor levels,  it would be within an acceptable 
tolerance. I think thats likely. I also think the fact that the kitchen floor had a second layer of 
screed has probably made a difference to the floor level. 
Ref: DRN16204802So in order to treat Mr and Mrs S fairly  I think Lloyds should  take up the kitchen  tiles and 
lower the floor underneath  so that, when  the kitchen floor is retiled,  it will be level with the 
hall floor.
Lloyds has agreed  to have a cosmetic  repair service attend  and repair  a chipped  tile in the 
hallway. I think this is a reasonable offer.
Lloyds should  have ensured  that repairs to Mr and Mrs Ss home  were  carried  out to a 
satisfactory standard. In that respect  its caused  them some trouble  and upset. Theyll  have 
a lot of upheaval  when their kitchen is taken  apart  for a new floor to be laid. In addition 
thereve been  delays,  concerns about  possible exposure to asbestos, missed  appointments 
and damage caused  in carrying  out the works. In the circumstances I think its fair that 
Lloyds should  pay them a further  £400  compensation  (including the extra  £300 already 
offered).
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Society  of Lloyds  to:
take up the kitchen  tiles and lower the floor underneath so that, when the kitchen floor is 
retiled, it will be level with the hall floor;
carry out a cosmetic  repair to the chipped tile in the hallway; and
pay Mr and Mrs S a further  £400  compensation (including any sums  already paid in 
respect of this and bringing the total compensation  paid in respect of this claim to £900).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1620480