K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains about Revolut Limiteds decision to suspend and then close his account.
background
Revolut told Mr Z in September  and December 2018  that it did not permit cycling of funds in 
the way he was. It warned him his account would be suspended if he continued. He did, and 
in January 2109 Revolut suspended,  and subsequently closed, his account. 
Unhappy, Mr Z complained to Revolut  but they didnt uphold his complaint. They referred 
him to sections 7.1, 7.2, 21.1 and 36.5 of their terms and conditions.  Mr Z remained unhappy 
so brought the complaint  to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Zs complaint. He said Revolut had made Mr Z aware what  
it would  do if he continued to cycle funds and he was satisfied it had followed its procedures 
correctly, and in line with the terms of the account.
Mr Z asked  for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. He said he has at all times complied 
with the terms and conditions, which dont say anything  about cycling funds. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same
conclusion as the investigator for largely  the same  reasons. 
Clause 21.1 that Revolut referred to is headed  Suspending  Your Use of the Revolut 
Services and states We reserve  the right to change, suspend or discontinue any aspect of 
the Revolut Services  at any time, including hours  of operation or availability  of the Revolut 
Services or any Revolut Services feature, without notice and without liability . 
I think in this case it was reasonable of Revolut to rely on this clause to suspend Mr Zs 
account. By continuing  to cycle money  Mr Z wasnt co-operating with the request that had 
been made by Revolut  concerning his account.  It gave two clear and fair warnings before 
taking action. I consider  this a reasonable approach and can find no grounds to tell it to    
re-open Mr Zs account as he wishes. I recognise  how Mr Z feels  about this but having  
looked at the evidence,  I cant  fairly say Revolut  acted  outside of their procedures when it 
closed Mr Zs account. And Revolut  can choose who they provide banking  services to, just 
as Mr Z gets to choose who he wants to bank with. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint against Revolut Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1385968