K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr S took out in 2000. It was added to his 
account a few days after the card had been  set up.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint because theres insufficient evidence that Mr S 
consented to buying the policy.  While  the credit card application appears to have  a small 
section about  PPI where Mr S couldve selected  PPI, this is largely ineligible on the copy 
thats available.  And Mr S didnt select it  suggesting he didnt want  it. 
However, Barclays says there  was a phone call a few days later after which  the PPI was 
added to the account. And that during  that call Mr S mustve changed his mind  and agreed 
to take PPI. But Barclays has no evidence of whether  that call was inbound  or outbound, or 
any scripts showing how it sold PPI in such calls. So Barclays  cant show that Mr S agreed 
to take the PPI. Mr S says he doesnt remember PPI being discussed  or agreeing  to it. He 
says it must have been automatically added to his account. 
In light of this, I think Mr S ended up with PPI even though he didnt  want  it. And he has lost 
out because of this. 
Ive taken into account Barclayss comments,  including that it thinks the PPI wouldve been 
recommended to Mr S during the phone call in line with the Association of British Insurers 
General Insurance Business Code of Practice.  While the Code of Practice  set out what 
shouldve happened  during such a sale, theres no compelling evidence to suggest  that 
Barclays processes at that time complied with it. Barclays cant even confirm what sort of 
call this was. 
I addition to this, Im not persuaded  by Barclays suggestion that Mr S wouldve cancelled the 
PPI if he didnt want it because the premiums wouldve been shown on his statements. I 
dont think his failure to cancel  the policy is compelling evidence  that he did consent  to it or 
that he wanted it. So I still think I should uphold  the complaint.
Ref: DRN13398462putting things right
Barclays should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.Barclays should find out how much Mr S would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr S owes and what  he would 
have owed.
If Mr S made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Barclays works out what Mr S would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mr S paid more than enough  to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mr S wouldve  owed  Barclays  something  on his credit card.  The interest rate should be 
8% a year. 
C.Barclays should tell Mr S what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1339846