K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that the Society  of Lloyds (SoL)  has declined a claim under  a group 
personal accident policy.
background
Mr G was covered under  his employers personal  accident insurance policy.  In September 
2016, he fell over at work. He made a claim for temporary total disablement under the policy. 
He said the fall resulted in an injury to his left knee and meant he wasnt  able to work. 
SoL noted Mr G was already experiencing problems with his left knee when he had the fall. It 
therefore turned down  the claim as it didnt  think the fall was the sole cause of the injury  to 
his knee. Unhappy  with SoLs  decision, Mr G brought a complaint  to this service.  He also 
told us that when he had the fall, hed also injured his back.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She noted that Mr G had been  
having investigations for left knee pain in the weeks leading up to the fall. She therefore 
didnt think the fall was solely responsible for Mr Gs knee injury, as required under  the policy 
for a claim to be paid.  Although Mr G said hed injured his back in the fall, she said SoL 
hadnt been given any medical  evidence to support that Mr Gs back pain was caused by an 
accident. 
Mr G has asked for an ombudsmans decision,  so the matters  been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I think it would first of all be helpful  to include the sections  of the policy  which are relevant to 
Mr Gs claim. 
The policy says that benefit is payable in the event  of the Insured Person sustaining Bodily 
Injuryduring the Operative  Time. 
Bodily Injury is defined as:
identifiable physical injury which:-
a)Is sustained by the Insured Person and
b)Is caused by an Accident  during  the Operative Time and
c)Solely and independently  of any other  cause,  except  sickness or disease  directly 
resulting from, or medical or surgical treatment rendered necessary by such  injury, 
occasions the death or disablement of the Insured Person within 24 months from the 
date of the Accident.
Accident is defined as:
a sudden,  unexpected, unusual, specific event, which  is external to the body and occurs  at 
an identifiable time and place
Ref: DRN16235012Operative Time is defined as:
The Insured Person  will be covered for Accidents occurring whilst carrying out his 
occupational duties on behalf of the Assured during the Period of Insurance,  including 
commuting directly between home  and place of work.
One of the listed  benefits is temporary  total disablement. This means:
disablement that temporarily and totally prevents the Insured Person from attending to the 
duties of his usual business or occupation.
In summary,  for the claim to be payable,  Mr G needs to show that he wasnt able to work  in 
his usual occupation as a result of a physical injury  he suffered in an accident either at work 
or commuting to/from work. 
SoL says that Mr G had a knee problem in the weeks leading  up to his fall. It therefore thinks 
Mr Gs claim doesnt meet  the policy terms, as his knee problem wasnt caused solely by the 
accident. 
The policy does say the injury needs  to be caused by an accident and occur solely and 
independently of any other  cause.  However, in cases where  an accident wasnt  the sole 
cause of an injury, the usual approach  of this service is to require an insurer  to still pay the 
claim if the evidence supports that the accident was a significant factor  in the cause  of the 
injury. Ive therefore looked at the available evidence. 
In early August  (around a month before his fall), Mr G attended a hospital  emergency 
department because of pain in his left knee. The knee was noted to be swollen and painful, 
and Mr G was discharged to the care of his GP. 
Mr G saw his GP on two occasions  about his knee  in August, and was referred to a 
musculoskeletal clinic at the end of August as his pain hadnt improved. 
Mr G had a fall at work on 9 September. Ive looked at the accident record  and this says that 
he tripped and hit or dropped to his knee and then pulled his back. 
However, Mr G didnt  go to his GP after this happened. His next GP appointment took place 
on 10 October about another matter, however it was noted his knee problem was ongoing. 
There was no mention of Mr G further injuring his knee in a fall.  
Mr G attended the planned musculoskeletal clinic appointment  on 8 November,  and was 
assessed by Miss N. He was found  to have  a tender left medial joint line. Miss N made a 
note of his history and recorded that hed attended  accident & emergency in August because 
of swelling  to his knee,  and she said the onset  had been insidious. Again, there was no 
mention of Mr G further injuring his knee in a fall. Mr G was referred to an orthopaedic 
surgeon. 
In January 2017, Mr Gs GP issued a backdated  sick note that said he was unable to work  
between August and November  2016  because of a knee  injury. 
In June 2017, Mr G saw the orthopaedic surgeon. He said Mr G presented with medial sided 
pain affecting  his left knee  which had been  ongoing for about  a year. The surgeon also said 
Ref: DRN16235013Mr G had twisted his knee  when  he fell down some stairs.  He thought  Mr G had a torn 
medial meniscus and suggested he have an arthroscopy.
Its apparent from the above evidence that Mr G had a pre-existing problem with his left knee 
prior to his accident.  His knee was swollen and painful for around four weeks before his fall, 
and hed been referred for further  investigations.
Mr G says he then injured  his knee in the fall at work. Its not in dispute that he had a fall. But 
he didnt visit his GP after the accident,  and later didnt  mention hurting his knee in a fall to 
his GP or to Miss N at the musculoskeletal clinic.  So theres no medical  evidence  to support 
that the fall contributed to the existing problem with his knee. 
Mr G was later found to have a torn medial  meniscus. Although the orthopaedic surgeon  
said Mr G had twisted his knee in a fall (as presumably Mr G had told him this),  the evidence  
from the time of the injury  confirms that it came on slowly,  rather  than as a result of a fall. 
Overall, Im satisfied it was reasonable for SoL to turn down Mr Gs claim for temporary total 
disablement, as I dont  think  hes shown that his knee injury was caused  by an accident. 
Mr G also says he injured his back  in the same  fall, and this later prevented him from 
working. 
I understand Mr G was first signed off work in June 2017 for back pain. However,  I havent  
seen any evidence that his back pain was caused by the fall in September  2016.  Ill explain 
why.
Following his fall, the first time Mr G attended  his GP about  back pain was four months later,  
in January 2017. At this appointment, he didnt say hed hurt his back  in the fall. The GP 
simply recorded that he had a long history of back pain which  was exacerbated by work. I 
see from Mr Gs medical records  that he does indeed have a long history of back  pain. 
Therefore, although  the accident record says that Mr G pulled his back in the fall, theres no 
medical evidence  from the time of the accident  to support that Mr G had caused any injury to 
his back. Consequently,  I dont think Mr G has shown that his back  pain was caused by an 
accident and so I dont require SoL to pay the claim on that basis.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1623501