K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about issues  hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited.
background
In April 2018 Mr O was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. At the point  of supply the car had covered 19,560 miles. The term of the agreement  
was 60 months with repayments of £410.09  per month. The mileage allowance  under the 
agreement was 20,000 miles per year and the excess mileage charge was 0.10 pence  per 
mile.
Mr O experienced a number of issues with the car. He reported  these to the supplying dealer 
and returned the car several times for diagnostics and repairs.  In total Mr O reported 27 
different issues with the car. The supplying dealer was unable  to replicate most of these. 
Where issues  were  found, the supplying dealer carried out repairs.
Mr O was unhappy with the service  he received  from the supplying dealer and complained to 
MBFS. MBFS arranged an independent  inspection.
An independent inspection was carried out by ACE in April 2019. At the time of the 
inspection the mileage was 59,630, which meant that Mr O had covered  approximately  
40,000 miles since  the point  of supply.
The independent inspection looked at all 27 of the reported issues. It found some issues 
which needed looking into. But most  of the reported issues  werent  replicated  during the 
inspection. The report concluded  that, taking into account the length  of time which had 
passed since the point of supply and the level of mileage covered, the issues  wouldntve 
been present  at the point  of supply.
MBFS considered the independent report and upheld Mr Os complaint  in part. It said it didnt 
agree that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply but said it would allow 
Mr O to return the car and receive a refund of his deposit, less a deduction for excess  
mileage charges. It also offered to deduct £400  from the excess  mileage  charges  as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr O wasnt happy with MBFSs response.  He wants to return  the car and receive  a refund 
of his deposit and his monthly payments. He said he wasnt aware of any mileage  limit under 
the agreement.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought the offer by MBFS was fair.
Mr O didnt agree. He said most of the issues  with the car happened soon after the point of 
supply and that even though hed returned the car to the dealer several times the issues  still 
havent been fixed. He also said that most of the issues were  reported early on in the 
agreement when he hadnt covered much mileage, and he felt that the independent  report 
had focussed  too much on the mileage covered by the time of the inspection. Mr O said hed 
never been told about a mileage limit and said that mileage was irrelevant anyway as he 
intended to purchase the car at the end of the term.
Ref: DRN15708532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MBFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality  if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable  person would  expect, taking into account the age and 
mileage of the car and the price  paid. I would expect a second hand  car to have a degree  of 
wear and tear. So in order to uphold this complaint, Id need to be satisfied that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply  due to an inherent  defect rather than 
general wear and tear.
Mr O and MBFS disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order to 
reach a decision,  I need to look at the available evidence and determine,  on the balance of 
probability, whether  the car was of satisfactory  quality  at the point of supply.
Mr O has reported a large number of issues with the car, many within  the first 6 months from 
the point of supply. I can see that the supplying dealer has attempted to repair the issues 
which it managed  to diagnose.  But Mr O says these  issues are ongoing.
An expert engineers  report  can sometimes help in deciding whether a car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. The independent  report in this case  concluded that none of the 
issues with the car would have been present or developing at the point of supply.
Ive taken into account Mr Os comments about  most of the issues  happening  soon  after the 
point of supply.  However,  neither the supplying dealer not the independent  engineer has 
been able to replicate the majority of these  issues.  Of the issues  which were replicated,  
some have been repaired. I understand Mr Os concerns  that the repairs havent  been 
successful. But taking  all of the evidence into account, Im not persuaded that the faults  were  
present at the point of supply.
In the circumstances, I wouldnt be recommending rejection. However, MBFS has offered  to 
allow Mr O to reject the car and refund his deposit,  subject to a deduction for excess  mileage 
charges.
This leads  me to the second aspect of Mr Os complaint, which  is that he wasnt made aware  
of any mileage limits under the agreement. Mr O has said that he told the salesperson of his 
intention to use the car as a taxi. Hes also said he took out a service plan for 45,000 miles 
per year.
The dealership hasnt provided  any notes  of what was discussed with Mr O at the time of 
entering into the agreement. I wasnt present so I cant be certain of what  was said.  In 
circumstances like these, I need to look at the contemporaneous documents  as evidence of 
what was discussed  and agreed. The hire purchase  agreement clearly states that the annual 
mileage limit is 20,000  miles. Irrespective of any discussions  Mr O had with the salesperson, 
I think the agreement  is clear  and I think Mr O wouldve  been  aware  of the mileage limit 
because hes signed the agreement to indicate that hes read and understood the terms and 
conditions.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, I think  the offer by MBFS is a 
fair one. I understand why Mr O is unhappy about a deduction from his deposit for excess 
Ref: DRN15708533mileage charges but I think its reasonable for MBFS to do this because Mr O has exceeded 
the mileage limit by so much.  The fact that Mr O has covered  such a large amount of 
mileage since the point of supply  suggests  to me that the issues  hes experienced with the 
car havent prevented him from enjoying good use of it. So I dont think it would be fair for 
me to ask MBFS to refund any monthly  repayments.
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1570853