K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Cavendish Ware Limited (Cavendish) was taking commission from his 
pension investments but didnt provide him with advice. 
background
Mr L said he was over 70 and retired in early 2010.  He decided to take his pension via 
drawdown. He used an adviser  he knew  who then moved to Cavendish.  Mr L followed the 
adviser and moved  his business to Cavendish  and the normal  pattern of annual  reviews 
continued. Normally the receipt of his annual statement from the insurance  company 
triggered a review meeting with his adviser.  This didnt  happen  in 2018 and he wasnt 
advised that his existing  adviser was absent  for personal reasons. He had contacted 
Cavendish with a query in February 2018. As his normal  adviser was away someone else 
dealt with it. He then heard nothing about  this review. He felt he hadnt had service  but had 
paid 0.5%  commission  for their service. He calculated this as around  £250 per month for 20 
months. His last review meeting was in April 2017.
Cavendish said Mr L made contact in early  2018  and was informed his normal  adviser  would 
be away for sometime. Cavendish said its internal  notes  showed that Mr L said he would 
review the annual valuation and make  contact to see another  adviser if needed. As a result  it 
was waiting to hear from Mr L and assumed  he didnt need a meeting because  he didnt 
make contact.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. I said that in order to make an award against Cavendish  I 
needed to consider whether it had done  anything wrong. In reaching a view on this I had 
considered a number of areas of information  in particular the terms of business governing 
this relationship, the past pattern of engagement, the timeline of events and copy  papers. 
Having reviewed these  I was of the view that Cavendish hadnt  acted fairly for the reasons 
given below. However I had reached  a slightly different conclusion on quantum  and also 
believe an award for distress and inconvenience is in order.
contract
My starting position was to consider the contractual terms between the parties. I had seen 
the original engagement letter dated March  2015.  This states  that Cavendish will undertake 
regular reviews of the income drawdown  plan to ensure it remains the most suitable vehicle 
for Mr Ls retirement planning.  The Cavendish fee is listed as a commission  of 0.5%  of the 
fund value. 
past pattern  of working
I could see that the plan anniversary was in February each year. When  advice started in 
2015 Mr Ls adviser confirmed he would be in contact around the time of the next plan 
anniversary regarding an annual review.  I can see that Mr L had been  in the habit of meeting 
with his adviser for an annual pension review for each year since  2015.  The last review  was 
in March 2017 and indeed  the 2015,  2016  and 2017  meetings were all in March. These 
reviews included a report prepared by the Cavendish  adviser  with recommendations. There 
were also detailed notes  of the meetings  with Mr L each  year.  I thought this demonstrated 
that the regular contact  covered by the contract was based around the annual review and 
this took place in March  each year. It also seems that Cavendish contacted Mr L to initiate a 
review; it wasnt  up to him to do it. So while Mr L couldve made contact  to notify changed  
Ref: DRN13350652circumstances he didnt  need to do that as the annual review would pick it up. And it wasnt 
up to him to initiate the review.
It was clear that the reports  were more than a review of investment performance. They  
contained conclusions  that could only be reached after discussions with Mr L about his 
circumstances and attitude to risk etc. I thought this showed that it wasnt  possible to 
conclude no review is needed based  only on the insurance company report. I think  the 
pattern from 2015 to 2017 showed the way the ongoing relationship  was carried out.
events in early 2018
I also considered the events in early 2018.  In early February 2018 Mr L contacted Cavendish 
to say the insurer had notified him his income  would decrease by £5,000 per annum. I have 
seen the internal note recording the proposed switch to another  basis  to allow the current  
level of income to continue. There is reference  to the annual  review normally  being in 
March/April. The note says Mr L will wait to see the updated valuation and if needed come 
in and see another adviser. There  was further  correspondence advising on the impact of the 
switch in basis and enclosing papers to implement it.
It was clear that advice  was given and support rendered in February 2018. However there 
was no written confirmation issued to Mr L saying they would wait to hear whether Mr L 
wanted an annual  review. The statement if needed in the internal note isnt clear. It doesnt  
say who assesses whether something is needed and this approach runs contrary to existing 
terms and the past pattern. Both parties could  easily have understood the position quite 
differently. Mr L couldve thought the conversation referred to the change in income  or any 
other problems that cropped up. This is also an internal note and isnt a record which  Mr L 
could have seen  so he had no opportunity to correct any misunderstanding that had been 
recorded in that note.
I would have expected Cavendish to have sent written confirmation to the client  such that 
both parties were clear  what to expect particularly for such a fundamental change in service. 
That change in effect meant  Cavendish was being paid but wasnt  providing any proactive 
service. Such a written  confirmation wouldve given Mr L the chance to clarity if he 
disagreed. We dont have a record  of the actual  conversation. In those circumstances I need 
to decide on the basis of the evidence what is most likely to have happened.  Having  
considered the internal note and Mr Ls comments I dont  think  the position was clear  and I 
dont think he thought he was declining an annual review. 
As Cavendish is being  paid to provide a contractual service and the past pattern showed it 
initiated each  annual review I think it wouldve been  reasonable  to expect it to write  to 
confirm it wouldnt do that review unless it was asked. But it didnt do that and I dont think 
there is clear  evidence to show  Mr L declined a review. I dont think its clear he was 
agreeing to suspend the normal pattern of ongoing service that he was paying for.
Ref: DRN13350653compensation
I have considered the proposed approach to compensation and the service  that was 
provided by Cavendish. I can see the first annual review was just after Cavendish was 
appointed in 2015, in effect it was provided  in advance of payment. So I think  it is reasonable 
that the fees for the 12 months  from the last review in 2017 would cover  that review  (i.e. up 
to March 2018). 
I note also that assistance  was provided in early  2018 re the level of income.  However the 
appointment letter says that they will implement any agreed recommendations. So I think  the 
terms of services provided included dealing with such a change within the fees charges  and 
no additional  fee was due. As a consequence I also dont  think this was adequate service to 
replace the service it shouldve been providing from March 2018.
I think that Cavendish  failed to provide an annual review service  for 2018. The plan 
anniversary was in February and the pattern of meetings and reports  since  2015 has been  in 
March each year. So I think that with effect  from the end of February  2018  Cavendish was 
failing to provide  the contracted service. For the reason given I didnt  agree  that the 2018 
review was rejected  and the next one wasnt due until 2019.
For that reason  I thought Mr L was entitled to a refund of the commission payments  taken  
from his fund in March 2018  and until Cavendish ceased to be his adviser.  (I dont agree that 
the review wasnt due until April 2018  as the past pattern  showed  it was always in March). It 
should be possible to determine the exact amount of the commission deducted  from the 
fund. I propose that such amounts should  then be subject to 8% per annum simple interest 
from the date of deduction to the date of my final decision.
I also think that Mr L has suffered distress  and inconvenience. It is clear that he is 
disappointed he didnt  get the regular service he expected and has had to complain and find 
a new adviser. I think the impact on him has been  moderate. In the circumstances I think an 
award of £250  would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I proposed to uphold  this complaint.
I proposed to direct that Cavendish Ware Limited  should pay Mr L the following:-
1.Such amount  as represents the 0.5%  commission  deducted from Mr Ls funds from 
March 2018 to September 2018  inclusive plus 8% per annum simple interest on such 
amounts from the date of deduction to the date of my final decision.
2.£250 for distress  and inconvenience.
Mr L said he was satisfied  with the provisional  decision. Cavendish said it didnt completely 
agree with the decision but was willing to accept  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As both parties accepted my decision  I havent  changed my mind.
Ref: DRN13350654my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct  that Cavendish Ware Limited  should  pay Mr L the following:-
1.Such amount  as represents the 0.5%  commission  deducted from Mr Ls funds from 
and including  March  2018 to September 2018 inclusive plus 8% per annum simple  
interest on such amounts from the date of deduction to the date of my final decision.
2.£250 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1335065