K822xcomplaint
Miss B has complained  that EFG Management  Limited (EFG) failed to pass  information on 
to her insurer. This meant  she was unable to claim  critical illness  benefit and her policy  was 
cancelled from the start,  and her premiums were  refunded.
 
All references to EFG include their sales agents and representatives, who Miss B dealt with 
during the course of her purchase and complaint.
background 
Miss B contacted EFG on 9 February 2018,  as she wanted to take out life and critical illness  
cover. EFG recommended Miss B take out a policy with an insurer,  who Ill call L. As part of 
the application process, Miss B had to answer a number of questions about her health and 
lifestyle which EFG recorded  on the application  that was passed  to L. Cover  started  the 
same day. 
Miss B was sadly diagnosed with leukaemia  on 15 February 2018  and tried to claim under 
the policy. L turned down the claim, as it said Miss B shouldve  told it she was awaiting a 
follow up appointment following a recent abnormal blood test when she applied  for cover.  
Miss B complained to EFG as she said shed  told the adviser about the blood tests  when she 
went through the application process.
EFG reviewed  the sales call. It noted  that although Miss B had told the adviser shed 
recently had a blood test, shed given conflicting  information about whether she was awaiting 
results from the tests, or whether shed been given  the all clear. But it accepted its adviser 
shouldve asked more  questions to get a clearer picture of Miss Bs state of health  before 
proceeding with the application. It said had the adviser correctly understood that Miss B was 
awaiting a follow up appointment her application  wouldve been postponed until the outcome 
of the test was known.  EFG also accepted  its adviser had incorrectly told Miss B that shed 
be covered even if the results of the blood tests showed she had a covered condition,  such 
as leukaemia. 
EFG explained that, given Miss B was awaiting the full results from her blood test, she 
wouldnt have been able to get cover elsewhere. So it didnt agree it was responsible  for 
Miss B missing  out on life and critical illness cover. But it accepted that it was responsible for 
some of the disappointment Miss B now felt. In view of this it offered her £300 
compensation. 
Miss B didnt accept  EFGs offer and referred her complaint to our service. She explained 
shed relied on the adviser when he said she didnt need to disclose  her recent  blood  test. 
She also said EFGs compliance manager had been  patronising when he spoke with her and 
tried to dissuade her from complaining. 
Our investigator considered the complaint,  but he didnt uphold it. He acknowledged that 
EFG had made mistakes when advising Miss B during the application  process. But he 
agreed that Miss B wouldnt have been able to obtain cover elsewhere, so he didnt agree 
shed suffered a financial  loss as the policy should  never have started. He also considered 
EFGs offer of £300 fairly  compensated  Miss B for the trouble and upset shed experienced. 
Ref: DRN14808402Miss B disagreed. She said shed  relied  on the adviser to provide her with expert  advice both 
in terms of completing the application,  but also in terms of which insurer to go with. She said 
had she known L wouldnt have offered her cover she wouldve gone elsewhere and sought  
cover from an insurer who would cover  her, even if this was at an increased premium.  She 
also suggested the £300 compensation  offered by EFG was an insult.  
As theres  been  no agreement, this complaint  has been passed to me to consider afresh.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to have  read about Miss Bs recent  diagnosis. I can see its been  a very 
stressful time for her, discovering  her policy wasnt going to provide the cover she expected, 
and then having to make a complaint. I do hope her health is improving.  
Its been accepted by EFG that its adviser  made  mistakes during the application  process  
he didnt fully clarify the circumstances  around Miss Bs recent blood tests and what  would  
be happening  next; he also incorrectly told her shed be covered if the blood test showed she 
had something more seriously wrong with her. These mistakes contributed  to the policy  
starting and Miss B believing she was covered, when in fact she wasnt.  So the issue for me 
to decide is whether the £300  compensation EFGs offered is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Miss Bs main  concern is that shes now left without life and critical illness  cover. And, sadly,  
due to her recent diagnosis shes unlikely to be able to obtain  cover elsewhere in the near 
future. 
Miss B has suggested that had EFG given her the correct advice to disclose her blood test to 
L, and shed found out L wouldnt cover her, shed have looked elsewhere  for cover.  Shes 
said she wouldve obtained cover  from another insurer, even if this was at an increased 
price. While I understand Miss Bs point of view, I dont feel its supported by evidence  and 
I also dont think its likely  in the circumstances. 
Having listened  to the application call, I understand Miss B felt unconcerned about her 
recent blood test results  and felt they were normal. But the fact shed been told she had a 
raised white blood cell count, indicated that the test wasnt normal  and shed need further 
investigation to find out the cause. I think its significant that this follow  up was arranged  only 
a few days after the blood test, and on a Saturday. Im satisfied this wouldve been  
significant to any medical  underwriter considering  an application for life and critical illness 
cover. 
From my experience of dealing with these types of cases, an underwriter  would most  likely 
postpone an application for cover  until any follow-up investigations were  complete. This is so 
they could either satisfy  themselves theres  no reason to refuse cover, or to decide  if theyre 
prepared to offer cover  and if so at what price.  Without any evidence  to show me otherwise, 
Im not persuaded any insurer wouldve offered Miss B cover had they known of her recent 
blood test and the need for an immediate follow up. 
Even if an underwriter had agreed to consider Miss Bs application  before  her follow  up 
appointment, I think its most likely  theyd  have wanted more information about  her general 
Ref: DRN14808403state of health  and the reasons for the blood test before agreeing  to offer cover. This 
information would usually be obtained  from a GP and would generally take some time to 
collect. Given that Miss B was given an indicative diagnosis of leukaemia  the day after she 
completed the application, I think  any application  for cover wouldve been declined  at this 
point and no cover wouldve been offered. 
As Im not persuaded Miss B couldve obtained  insurance cover elsewhere before she was 
diagnosed with leukaemia, I cant say shes lost out on insurance cover because  of EFGs 
actions. So I cant fairly say EFG should  compensate Miss B for the lost opportunity  to claim 
under the policy.  
So Ive considered whether EFGs offer of £300 compensation, fairly reflects the trouble and 
upset Miss B has experienced as a result of its actions. 
I dont doubt it mustve been  incredibly stressful for Miss B to discover  that her claim wasnt  
going to be paid, and that her cover was being cancelled from the outset. Although some of 
this stress and concern would no doubt have originated from the worry that comes with 
being diagnosed with a very serious illness. 
I understand Miss B also found  a conversation with EFGs compliance manager  to be 
patronising. Ive listened to this call and can appreciate why Miss B had the concerns she 
did. I think at times the compliance managers tone could be interpreted as patronising,  in 
particular I noted  his reference to them needing  to have a grown  up conversation. But 
I cant say he was unreasonable  in the information  he gave Miss B. While he gave his 
opinion that Miss B was unlikely to be successful  in pursuing a complaint, he nevertheless  
agreed to provide the information  shed asked for and explained  that the complaint could be 
considered by our service  if she wanted  to pursue the matter. As Miss B then brought  the 
complaint to our service, I cant see that she was put off by what  the compliance  manager 
had said. 
Having taken account of the full circumstances of the complaint, I consider the £300  
compensation offered by EFG, is in line with the type of award Id have  made if nothing  had 
been offered.  So I consider it to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and I wont  be 
asking EFG to increase  its offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
EFG should now arrange to pay Miss B the £300 compensation it has previously offered.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1480840