K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) were wrong to reject  her chargeback 
request.
background
Mrs L bought  two dresses,  using a credit card issued  by Vanquis in October 2018. She says 
she intended to keep one and return the other.  Unfortunately, both were unsuitable and she 
was unable to get a refund from the shop as theyd  gone into liquidation. She therefore  
asked Vanquis to refund her but Vanquis were  only prepared to refund  one of the 
transactions.
Vanquis listened to the call Mrs L made  to them and noted  that shed only asked for one 
dress to be refunded.  Shed explained  that shed keep the other. They  said they therefore  
correctly processed a chargeback with the merchant.  But they went  on to explain that, as 
one part of the transaction had already been successfully disputed, they would not now be 
able to dispute the other part. 
But Mrs L was disappointed  with their decision and she therefore  referred  her complaint to 
this service. Our adjudicator didnt think Vanquis had done anything  wrong.  She listened to 
the call too and noted that Mrs L had regularly explained that she wanted  to return  one dress  
and keep the other. She didnt think Vanquis  had initially been made aware of Mrs Ls 
subsequent desire  to return  both items  and she therefore thought the chargeback  had been  
correctly raised and Vanquis were right to explain  they couldnt raise  a second chargeback 
for the other  amount of the same  transaction.
But Mrs L was still dissatisfied so she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs L but Im afraid  I think Vanquis were right to reject her second 
chargeback request. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might  be possible to recover the money paid through a chargeback.
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes  are resolved between 
card issuers  and merchants, under the relevant  card scheme  rules,  which  in this case are 
operated by Visa. 
Ref: DRN19061102What this means here is that Vanquis can in some circumstances ask for a transaction to be 
reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant. But there  
first has to be a right to apply for a chargeback  under  the card scheme rules. And Vanquis 
has explained that the Visa rules dont allow them to process  a second chargeback for the 
same transaction. 
Ive listened to the call and its clear  Mrs L told Vanquis that she intended to keep one of the 
dresses. So I think they processed  the chargeback and disputed the transaction  correctly. 
And, having disputed the transaction, theyve explained it wouldnt be possible for them to 
dispute it again and I dont think that would be reasonable either. So in those  circumstances 
I dont think Vanquis need  to take any further action.
my final decision
Fort the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1906110