K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that Advanced Payment  Solutions Limited (APSL) didnt treat her fairly 
when she opened  an account with it. She says there have been multiple issues with her 
account and bank card and shes  also unhappy with the service  shes received.
background 
Miss M says she tried to open an account with APSL but because of the problems  she 
experienced she ended up with two accounts.  She told us:
Shortly after opening the first account,  she received an email from APSL telling her 
shed soon receive her bank  card.  But the card never arrived and when she called 
APSL she was told she would need to wait.
She then received  a second  email  telling her she shouldve  received her bank card 
and explaining that she now needed to contact APSL to activate  it. But when she 
telephoned APSL to tell it shed  not yet received  the card,  she was told another  card 
would be sent out.
There were  further problems with the bank card and this caused her hardship  her 
student funds  had been paid into her account,  but she couldnt pay her rent because  
she couldnt use her account  it hadnt  been activated because shed not yet 
received her bank  card.
She understood that the first eight account transactions  each  month would be free 
but shes being charged for every withdrawal  and the transfers  she tries to make 
keep failing because  the one-time passcode  she needs to authorise  the transaction 
take too long to arrive on her mobile.
Shes unable  to use her bank  card in some  cash  machines  it doesnt seem  to work 
in LINK  cash machines.
APSL rejected this complaint.  It says Miss M opened two accounts  with it, in error;  she 
opened the second account on the same  day  12 October 2018  that she asked  it to close 
her first account. And because she paid the set-up  fee for the second account, but not the 
first account, the bank  card for the second account  was sent out first. It says before it had 
the opportunity  to close the first account, Miss Ms student funds were credited to it by a third 
party on 16 October  2018. And this triggered the generation  of a bank card for the first 
account. So at this stage Miss M had two accounts.
APSL says on 17 October Miss M instructed it to close  her second account, but again, 
before it was able to complete this, a faster payment arrived  crediting this account with some 
money. APSL says that at this point, Miss M had two accounts.
It acknowledges Miss M had separately  asked APSL to close  each account and leave the 
other account open, but as both accounts  now had funds in them, it needed  Miss M to 
decide which account she wanted to retain,  and then remove  the funds from the other  
account so that it could  be closed.
APSL acknowledged Miss M didnt get the service she shouldve done   it says she didnt 
get the call back  she was promised, and it apologised. It recognised there  was some 
confusion in the other telephone conversations Miss M had with APSL representatives,  but it 
says it wasnt able to provide  her with an adequate service because of constant 
interruptions and shouting.
Ref: DRN11881112APSL also confirmed that its account terms and conditions do not say that customer can use 
LINK cash  machines  it says the bank card can be used  to purchase goods and services  
and withdraw cash  at relevant ATMs.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said he thought  it should  be upheld  and he 
asked APSL  to pay Miss M £75 in compensation. He said Miss M hadnt received the service 
she shouldve done  shed had to make multiple calls to APSL and had been given 
contradictory information about when  her bank cards would arrive.  And he didnt think  APSL 
had set out clearly  that Miss M wouldnt be able to use her bank card in LINK  cash 
machines.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the fees and charges that had been applied to Miss Ms account  
and said he thought these had been  correctly applied in accordance  with the account  terms 
and conditions  so APSL hadnt done  anything  wrong when it added  these to her account. 
And he thought  it was reasonable for APSL to let Miss M decide  which  account she wanted 
to retain,  by withdrawing  all the funds from the account she no longer  wanted so that it would 
be clear to APSL which account  it needed  to close.
Miss M disagreed and asked the adjudicator  to review his findings.  She said the service 
shed received had been  very poor and led to her having two accounts, one of which she 
never wanted, and shed  been charged two sets of fees. He was able to listen to ten call 
recordings between Miss M and APSL and recognised the distress and inconvenience 
Miss M had endured. Because of this, he decided  to increase his previous compensation 
recommendation, and he asked APSL to pay Miss M £200  so settle this complaint.
APSL disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide. It says it is for Miss M to decide  
which account she wants to retain  and which account she wants  to close. And it says the 
problems Miss M experienced couldve been resolved much earlier if Miss M had not been 
obstructive on the phone. It doesnt accept it made  a mistake and sees no justification  for 
this Service recommending increased  compensation of £200.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I hope that Miss M wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Our rules allow  me to do that.
Miss M should note,  however, that although  I may not address each individual point that 
shes raised, I have given careful  consideration to all of her submissions before arriving  at 
my decision.  Having done so I have to tell Miss M and APSL  that I think  the adjudicator has 
reached the right outcome  here. And I think  he set out the position clearly in both of his 
views, so theres very little I can usefully add to what hes already said.
Its important I highlight  that Miss M has another complaint about APSL with our Service,  so I 
wont be dealing with any aspects of that complaint in this final decision. Those complaint 
points are being looked at separately  and if either  party  doesnt  agree with our investigators 
view then it may be necessary to issue another final decision  that covers  the points raised by 
Miss M in that complaint.
Ref: DRN11881113Theres no doubt in my mind that the service  APSL  gave Miss M has been  poor;  APSL itself 
acknowledges she didnt  receive the service  she shouldve done. But I dont think  its 
recognised the significant level of distress its poor service caused Miss M. She was left in 
the position of having  no access  to her student  funding; she told us she had to delay starting 
her course and couldnt pay for her rent.
Ive had the benefit of being able to listen to all ten call recordings provided by APSL  and 
although I do not condone the way in which Miss M spoke to some of APSLs 
representatives, I can understand the frustration, worry and fear she mustve felt with no 
access to her own money and no sense  that APSL was taking  her situation seriously. It 
seems to me that most of the APSL representatives  she spoke with either didnt take the 
time to understand the problem or simply hid behind  the organisations processes. And this 
approach simply added to Miss Ms predicament  she couldnt  access  her own money and 
she had no idea if she would ever be able to do so.
In view of what Ive read and heard in considering this complaint, Im disappointed that APSL  
didnt agree to our adjudicators suggestion that it pay £200  to Miss M. Im now going to 
direct it to pay Miss M the same £200 as a fair way to settle this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited must pay £200 to Miss M to 
settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1188111