K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about fees and charges that have been charged on a loan Miss D holds 
with Arrow  Global Limited. She complains  that shes been treated unfairly whilst in financial 
difficulties.
background to complaint
The loan was originally  taken out with a different lender, which Ill call G, and transferred to 
Arrow in 2016.  Miss D has struggled  with the payments for many years, resulting in the 
addition of arrears charges and additional interest  by both lenders. She started  her complaint 
in January 2017.
Ive looked at the complaint before; I issued a decision last month  confirming why our rules 
confined us to considering  only those  fees and charges that were applied after 
1 February 2011.  I gave  the parties  until 18 December  2019 to make  any final submissions  
before I addressed  the merits of the complaint as it relates to those fees and charges that 
have been added since 1 February 2011.  Neither party made  any further comment by that 
date; in case that was down  to the proximity of the extended holiday break, Ive waited a 
further two weeks  before  returning to the case.
Miss D has already received a refund of historic  charges totalling £1,145. Arrow also 
credited Miss Ds account with the interest that the refunded charges had accrued, making 
the overall refund just short of £1,500. But our investigator identified two further charges (of 
£30 and £40 respectively) from July 2013 which she thought should also be refunded. Arrow 
agreed to this, but Miss D asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Whilst the complaint  has been with us, Miss D has sold her property  and repaid the loan in 
full. 
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The starting point  is that lenders generally are permitted under the loan agreement  to apply 
fees and charges to cover  the additional cost of administering an account that is in arrears. 
Such charges are typically set out in a separate tariff of charges.  
But lenders  also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where  fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly.  One situation  where  we 
Ref: DRN13704742generally find that arrears  fees or charges  havent been applied  fairly is if more than one 
charge has been  levied in the same  month. 
Another is if a charge  is levied in a month where the customer has paid either the contractual 
payment or a different  amount agreed as part of a payment arrangement. In Miss Ds case, 
the investigator identified two occasions (as detailed in the background section)  where a 
charge had been applied  where one or other of the above  guidelines had been breached. 
She was right to do so; and Im pleased to see that Arrow has conceded the point  and 
agreed to make the further refunds. But taking into account the refunds already  made,  I dont 
find that Arrow need do more. It may not be the outcome Miss D was hoping for, but in all 
the circumstances, Im satisfied its the right one.
my decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Arrow  
Global Limited to:
A.refund  the two arrears management  fees from July 2013  specified above; 
B.calculate and pay Miss D interest at the relevant charging rate on each individual  fee 
from the date it was charged to the date the loan was repaid; and 
C.calculate and pay Miss D interest at 8%* simple per annum on the total amount 
refunded plus accrued  interest as set out in B above from the date of redemption  to 
the date of settlement.
*If Arrow Global Limited considers it should  deduct  basic rate tax from the interest  element  of 
this award, it may do so, provided  it issues Miss D with the relevant tax certificate.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1370474