K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against  Barclays Bank  UK PLC is about  investments they were  
advised to make in 1999 and 2000.
background
Mr and Mrs B met a Barclays  adviser in January 1999. The adviser recommended that 
Mr and Mrs B invest in a Barclays discretionary managed portfolio. They  invested  £80,000  in 
February 1999 and then brought their existing £20,000 of shareholdings into the portfolio in 
November 1999.
Mr and Mrs B met an adviser  again in December 2000 as Mrs B had received a lump sum 
payment following her early retirement.  Mr and Mrs B agreed to the advisers 
recommendation to invest a further £80,000  in their portfolio. 
Mr and Mrs B complain  they were given unsuitable advice. They  say Barclays advised  them  
to invest too much and exposed them  to too much  risk. They also complain that the 
investments were too complicated for inexperienced  investors  and they were advised  to 
invest too soon  after Mrs Bs retirement. 
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.  He thought that in both 
1999 and 2000, Mr and Mrs B were advised  to invest too much of their available  capital. 
Barclays disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision.
my provisional decision
I gave my provisional decision in October 2020.
I said that before making their recommendations, Barclays should have considered Mr and 
Mrs Bs financial situation, their knowledge and experience of investing, and their investment 
objectives. That would include taking  account of their attitude to risk, their purpose  in 
investing, and how long they wanted  to invest their money  for. 
1999 advice
The adviser asked  Mr and Mrs B about  their financial situation. They were both employed, 
with no dependents, and had a total monthly disposable income of £2,350.  They held 
£17,000 worth of shares and had cash savings of £94,000. They had no major  expenditure 
planned.
Mr and Mrs B said their objective was capital  growth  and they were prepared  to invest for at 
least five years. The adviser  assessed Mr and Mrs Bs attitude  to risk and concluded  that it 
was medium. 
The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs B invest in a Barclays discretionary managed
portfolio. The portfolio  would be managed as capital growth with safety which  meant that 
about 70% of the funds would be invested  in equities and 20% in fixed  interest  investments,  
with about 10% held in cash.
Ref: DRN10337252The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs B should retain £14,000 of their cash savings 
and invest the remaining  £80,000 in the managed portfolio. Their existing shareholdings 
were also transferred into the portfolio  later in 1999.
Based on their circumstances at the time, I thought the discretionary managed portfolio was 
a suitable way of meeting Mr and Mrs Bs objectives. They had some  investment experience  
and I thought it was suitable for investors of their knowledge  and experience.
And I thought a medium risk investment was suitable for them  as they were looking to 
invest for at least five years and had a high disposable income which  meant they could bear 
the greater degree  of fluctuation in value that such an investment might bring.
   
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs B were  advised to invest too much of their available  
capital. He noted that they were advised  to retain just £14,000 in cash savings, which  meant 
that 87% of their available assets  were  invested in the portfolio. He thought this was too 
much given that 70% of Mr and Mrs Bs portfolio was exposed to the risks of being  invested 
in equities.
Barclays had said that although 70% of the portfolio  was invested in equities,  that 
represented 60% of the £94,000  Mr and Mrs B had previously held in cash  savings. As well 
as their cash reserve of £14,000, 10% of Mr and Mrs Bs portfolio would be held in cash, 
giving them £22,000 of accessible funds  20% of their overall capital of £111,000.  
I thought carefully  about the amount Mr and Mrs B were advised to invest  and their 
circumstances at the time. I noted  that 60% of their previous cash  savings would now be 
invested in shares.  Taking account  of their existing shareholdings of £17,000, about two 
thirds of Mr and Mrs Bs overall  capital would be invested in equities. 
The rest of Mr and Mrs Bs capital would  be invested in more  stable fixed interest 
investments and in cash. In total, 20% of their capital was accessible, either in cash deposits 
or as the liquidity  in their managed portfolio. 
I noted that Mr and Mrs B said they had no major expenditure planned. And Id also taken 
account of their monthly disposable income of £2,350. That meant  their cash  reserves  would 
be increasing each  month  and they had some  capacity to absorb  losses they might incur on 
their investments.  
On balance, I thought it was a suitable  recommendation  that Mr and Mrs B invest  the 
amount they did into the discretionary managed portfolio. And I didnt think  Barclays  had 
done anything  wrong in giving the advice they did to Mr and Mrs B. 
2000 advice
Mr and Mrs B met Barclays again  in December 2000. By this time,  Mrs B had taken early 
retirement and received  a lump sum of £106,791. Her annual  income  had reduced  from 
£36,000 to £23,000. It appeared there were no other significant changes  in Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances. Their  objective was still to achieve  capital growth.
The adviser asked  about Mr and Mrs Bs attitude to risk and recorded that it was still 
medium. He recommended that Mr and Mrs B invest a further £80,000 into their 
discretionary managed  portfolio.  It would continue to be managed  as capital growth  with 
safety with broadly the same mix of assets. 
Ref: DRN10337253I thought the recommendation  to invest further in the discretionary managed portfolio was a 
suitable way of meeting Mr and Mrs Bs objectives.  And I thought it remained in line with 
their attitude  to risk.
Our investigator thought Barclays had advised  Mr and Mrs B to invest  too much of their 
available capital. He said Mrs Bs reduced  income would have made  it more  difficult  for them  
to recover any significant losses incurred through their portfolio.
Barclays had said Mr and Mrs B retained  a substantial cash reserve  and still had a high level 
of monthly disposable  income which would allow them to lessen the impact of any potential  
losses.
I thought carefully  about that point.  The adviser  recommended that Mr and Mrs B retain 
about 25% of the lump sum in cash.  With their existing savings, they would  be holding over 
£40,000 in cash   about 20% of their total assets. In addition, 10% of their managed portfolio 
was held in cash  and accessible if necessary. 
Following her retirement, Mrs Bs income  had reduced by about a third.  But Mr Bs income 
remained the same and it appeared their monthly disposable income was still at least 
£1,500. 
Overall, I thought Barclays made a suitable recommendation to Mr and Mrs B. 
They retained a large  cash  reserve which would enable them  to cover any unexpected  costs 
and gave them some  capacity to absorb any losses they might incur from the riskier 
elements of their portfolio.  
Mr and Mrs B had said it was too soon  after Mrs Bs retirement for them to be making 
investment decisions.  But from the paperwork Id seen, I thought they wanted  advice  on how 
to invest the lump sum Mrs B had received. And Id not seen any evidence  they were  
pressured into making a decision sooner than they wanted. 
Mr and Mrs B were  also unhappy that Barclays said Mrs B had retired on medical grounds, 
but also that she was in good health. Both comments were recorded  on the fact find 
completed at the time, and I think its most likely thats what  Mr and Mrs B told the adviser. 
Based on the information Id seen about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time,  that 
didnt change my decision  that Barclays had made a suitable  recommendation to them.
responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Mr and Mrs B, nor Barclays, have commented on my provisional  decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has offered any further  comments,  I can see no reason to change  my 
findings. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and repeated above, Ive 
decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN10337254my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint against  Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2021.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1033725