K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Stockcube Research Limited  (SRL)  didnt provide the service  it shouldve 
done and he had problems when trying  to use the spread  betting  account he opened.
background
In May 2017  Mr M opened a spread betting  account with London Capital Group (LCG) that 
included access to investment research from SRL. His access to the research was stopped  
by SRL within 12 months which led Mr M to complain.
I issued an initial provisional decision which  didnt  uphold the complaint. I said I wasnt  
satisfied that SRLs standard terms  which limited  the access to research to a period of 12 
months  applied. But as Mr M had said his access was dependent on keeping £1,000 in his 
account and he had fallen below this I thought  it was entitled to cancel the service. Mr M 
responded to the provisional  decision and provided  a copy  of the telephone  call he had with 
SRL when his trading  account was set up and he was given access  to research from SRL.
Based largely  on the telephone call Mr M provided I issued a second  provisional decision 
upholding the complaint  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. In 
particular I noted  that the telephone  call made clear that he had to keep £1,000 on account  
and also indicated that he would be contacted  to see if he still wanted  the account  if he 
wasnt trading. I said that SRL should  pay Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by simply stopping his access to research  without first contacting  him. I gave both 
parties the opportunity of responding and providing  any further information.
SRL said it had no further information  it wanted  me to consider. Mr M pointed out that he had 
documented the points that had been  made in the telephone  call he had provided but that 
my first provisional  decision was against  him because his documents  werent considered  as 
evidence. He said if he had not had a copy of the telephone  conversation the outcome 
wouldve been unfairly against  him. He asked why?  what he had said and his documents 
werent considered  evidence but SRLs statements were.
Mr M also said the award of £250  does not cover the time he had spent on this matter of 
around 21 hours and based on this and the amount of money  he had lost on the platform  he 
suggested a figure of £350.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr M nor SRL have provided any new information so I have  no reason to change  the 
findings in my provisional decision which is attached hereto.
Mr M has asked  why the information he provided before my first provisional decision wasnt 
considered evidence. But the information  and documents he provided  was considered as 
evidence by me - although it is for me to decide  how much weight to give any piece of evidence.
Ref: DRN12573052Although he has suggested  that in my first provisional decision I preferred the evidence  of 
SRL over his evidence, I based  my decision not to uphold largely on Mr Ms own evidence  
as set out in the complaint  form he signed  on referral to our service. This stated that he had 
been told he had to keep a minimum of £1,000  in his account. And given his account had 
fallen below this I thought  SRL were entitled  to terminate the service 
He made  later reference to the business being  relaxed  about  this. But in his complaint form 
he only related this to the other  condition  he said he was told about - which was to make  four 
trades each month.  
The telephone recording makes it clear  in a way I dont think  his written evidence did - that 
there would be a discussion before any action was taken if he didnt comply with either 
keeping £1,000 in his account or carrying  out four trades each month.
I note that Mr M has said he has spent 21 hours dealing  with this issue and suggests a figure 
of £350 should be paid by SRL. But the award or distress and inconvenience is for the impact 
of his access to research being stopped without notice, not all the time he has spent in relation 
to this complaint.  And I still think that an award of £250 for distress and inconvenience caused  
by having his access to research stopped without notice is reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons set out above and in my attached provisional 
decision. Stockcube Research Limited  has to pay Mr M £250  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12573053COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains that Stockcube Research Limited (SRL) didnt provide the service it shouldve done 
and he had problems when trying to use the spread betting account he opened.
background
In May 2017  Mr M opened  a spread betting account  with London Capital  Group (LCG)  that included  
access to investment research from SRL.  His access to the research was stopped by SRL within  12 
months which led Mr M to complain.
I issued a previous  provisional decision on this complaint  in which I said I didnt  intend upholding  the 
complaint. In short I made the following findings:
There  is confusion over the trading names of the businesses involved which isnt perhaps 
surprising given  SRLs trading name is Investors Intelligence  and LCGs trading  name is 
Investors Intelligence  Spread  Betting.
Mr M confirmed  to us in an email that the invitation he received to open  a spreadbetting account  
stated Investors Intelligence Spread Betting is a trading  name for London Capital Group Ltd so I 
think he was aware his account was with LCG.
Mr M had told SRL that he had been told that if he kept a minimum balance of £1,000 in his 
account and carried out four trades a month  he would be given access  to research. SRL hadnt 
suggested his access was limited to 12 months in response  to this.
Im not satisfied SRLs standard terms applied but given  Mr M has said his access was 
dependent on keeping  a £1,000 on account and he had fallen below  this I think  it was entitled to 
stop the service.
I wasnt  satisfied that SRL had to give notice before stopping access  to the service as I thought  it 
was for Mr M to monitor his account.
The problems Mr M had in accessing his trading  account is something he needs to direct at LCG 
not SRL 
I gave both parties  the opportunity to provide further  information. Mr M responded  and said that from 
what I said in my provisional decision it appears that it is fine for companies to make misleading  
statements to their customers  and berate them on the phone. He said he also wanted to point out his 
access was stopped  before  12 months as the email confirming set up of the account was 22 May 
2017 and he couldnt access the site from 15 May 2018. He got no response to his emails as to why 
he didnt have  access and called  several  times before he was finally  called and berated. He provided  
a copy of the telephone  call.
SRL said the document  that Mr M had provided  which  I had sent to it for its comments  appeared  to be 
a screen print but it couldnt determine when  it was made. But it noted  that the document wouldve 
made it clear to Mr M that LCG provided the spread betting account.  
It said the person Mr M spoke to when setting up his account wouldve  explained to Mr M that SRL 
would receive commission  income from the operation of the trading  account  to offset the purchase 
price and that this was an alternative to the up-front yearly subscription  payment options and that the 
option was always to run on an annual  basis as with regular subscriptions. It said in any event  Mr M 
didnt fulfil the obligation to pay for the service in the year of subscription.
Ref: DRN12573054my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered  all of the evidence  again, including  the record  of the telephone call that took place 
before Mr M registered  for the research, I dont think he was given clear  information  about  the service 
that was being provided or even who the service  was provided by.
The telephone  recording Mr M has now provided  of the conversation he had before applying for the 
research service  was with a person (the Director) who is shown in the regulators Financial  Services 
Register as having both a Director and Customer Service function for SRL between  February 2012 
and December  2017.  He did not have any such function with LCG who operated the trading account 
Mr M opened. I dont think Mr M wouldve  known  this or necessarily that he was contracting  with two 
separate financial  firms. 
From the evidence  I have been given Mr M seems to have only spoken to the Director who acted for 
SRL. It has stated that at the time the permitted activities it was allowed to carry  out meant SRL 
arranged spread  betting  accounts for some clients with LCG,  and that SRL then provided  investment 
research to those clients in return  for payments  received form LCG from the operation of the 
accounts. 
But there is no reason Mr M wouldve known this and SRL has provided no evidence that this 
arrangement was made clear to him. SRL said that the Director wouldve  explained  that SRL would 
receive commission income from LCG as a result of the trades he carried out and that this was an 
alternative to subscribing  for the research service. But the Director made no mention of this in the 
telephone call I have  listened to. And I have been given no other evidence that supports what SRL 
has said the Director wouldve told Mr M.
I think  the arrangement  between  SRL and LCG is very unclear and I also think the similarity  in trading 
names between SRL  trading name Investor Intelligence - and LCG - trading name Investor 
Intelligence Spreadbetting  - is likely to have added  to the confusion as to exactly who Mr M was 
contracting with and I think is more  likely than not to have given him the impression that the spread  
betting account and research  service  were being provided by one overall business. I think  that 
explains his confusion over who was actually providing the trading account and research service. I 
dont think Mr M was provided with clear  information about the research service.
Mr M didnt subscribe to the research service. He was told in the telephone call that if he went through 
the registration process for the research service  that he would get to a point it asks for credit card 
details. The Director  said that if Mr M didnt  do that bit he (the Director)  would see it come through 
and make sure Mr M was set up free of charge. 
There was no indication this was only for a 12 month period and, given  the research was linked to the 
spread betting account  which was not limited in time,  I dont think  Mr M had any reason  to think the 
research service  was only for 12 months. For the avoidance of doubt Im not satisfied that SRLs  
standard terms applied given the information he was given by the Director and the way the service 
was paid for. 
In response to what the Director had told Mr M to do to get access  to the research service  Mr M 
queried if there were  any restrictions or a certain number of trades he needed to do. He was told that 
that keeping £1,000 on account and doing four trades a month was basically what was expected but 
that in reality they were  quite relaxed about  this. Mr M said he didnt want  to be under pressure to 
trade and the Director responded and said the only reason a customer needed research and trading 
services is if they were  trading, so if they were  not trading they would be dropped a note to query  if 
they still wanted  the service. 
Ref: DRN12573055I think  it is more  likely  than not that Mr M  based on the information the Director had given him  
thought he was getting access  to research as part of the spread betting account he wanted. I think  
that the clear indication given  to him in the telephone call was that he would  have access to the 
service as long as he had a spread betting account and that he didnt need to strictly comply  with the 
requirement to keep  £1,000 on account and carry out four trades each month to be entitled to the 
research. I think he was also given  a clear  indication that if there was an issue he would  be contacted. 
The Director gave no indication that his access to research would automatically come to an end after 
12 months. And it isnt surprising  Mr M didnt expect this to happen given  I think he reasonably 
thought that the research service would be available  to him as long as he had a spread  betting 
account.
In the circumstances I think SRL shouldve  given Mr M reasonable notice it was going  to stop 
providing the research service to him. I think it should pay Mr M £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  by simply stopping his access to research without  any prior warning. I think it 
failed to recognise  that the arrangement it had with LCG  which Mr M had no reason to know 
anything about  and the way the research  service  was explained to him meant it wasnt appropriate 
to treat him as if he had subscribed for its service in the normal way. 
Mr M has also pointed out that it appears SRL stopped the service  about  a week before the end of the 
12 month period  anyway. I make no separate award for this.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained above. Stockcube Research Limited has to 
pay Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1257305