K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that Nationwide Building  Society advised  them  to invest  too much of 
their money and in unsuitable products in 1999, particularly given he had just retired  early 
due to ill health.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 14 November  2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Nationwide said it had no comment on my view of how much  money  Mr and Mrs V should 
have put in the unit trusts and ISAs  (or, by implication, the proposed  redress)  but disagreed 
with my view about the guaranteed bonds; commenting:
If Mr and Mrs V hadnt invested in the unit trusts and ISAs  the guaranteed bonds 
would not have exposed their money to excessive risk, particularly as they provided a 
capital guarantee
Their attitude  to risk was documented as balanced while the bonds had a much 
lower risk than this
The recommendation was in line with their documented objective  of not putting this 
£10,000 at risk, but with the potential  to deliver  greater returns  than a deposit 
account
It feels they were happy to take the small risk of getting no return  on maturity, 
something the advisor explained  to them
This sale occurred before the FSMA came  into place, meaning regulatory  
requirements were very different at the time. Mr and Mrs V were  given appropriate  
sales literature at the time
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its important to say I have looked  at this advice holistically, assessing how much of 
their money Mr and Mrs V should  have been advised to invest given their circumstances and 
likely future predicament. For the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, I am satisfied 
that they should not have  been advised to put more than half of their money at risk i.e. they 
should have kept at least half of it in risk-free bank accounts guaranteeing  a regular return, 
designed to provide at least some protection against inflation.
I also felt that even if it would have been  reasonable to take some risk with the other half of 
their money, no more than half of this amount should have been  in medium  risk investments. 
Hence, my proposed  compensation  formula.
I also raised detailed  concerns  about the guaranteed bonds including  the likelihood  of Mr 
and Mrs V fully understanding the not-insignificant risk to the real value  of their money posed 
by this product.  Nationwide, in my view, has not rebutted these concerns which,  in my view,  
fully warrant upholding  the complaint with the compensation as previously outlined.
I acknowledge that Nationwide appears  to accept that Mr and Mrs V should not have  put 
more than half their money at risk while not accepting  that the guaranteed bonds  should be 
Ref: DRN13386352considered part of the equation. If it had done, arguing that this £10,000 should  be 
considered part of the 50% put in risk-based investments, particularly as the bonds were  low 
risk, I would have considered whether  compensation should  be amended accordingly i.e. on 
the basis that only £20,000  should  have been  invested in the units trusts/ISAs. In my view,  
this would have  been an equally fair and reasonable basis for compensation. As it has not 
made this argument,  and I dont accept the bonds should be considered  part of the 50% of 
Mr and Mrs Vs money which should have  been completely risk free, I am satisfied  that my 
original compensation  formula  is fair and reasonable
Firstly, Nationwide must compensate Mr and Mrs V by comparing  the amount they received 
on half of the money they invested in the unit trusts/ISAs with what  they might have received 
via more cautious investments. To do this it should  use the standard  low-risk formula 
recommended by this service in these circumstances. That is, an equal combination of the 
returns as shown by the FTSE UK Private Investors Total Income  Return Index and that of 
the Bank of Englands fixed-rate bonds  of 12 to 17 months maturity. If this comparison 
shows a loss at the date/s  of surrender it must  pay this and add 8% simple interest per 
annum to this figure/s and up to the date of settlement of this complaint.
It must also compare the money Mr and Mrs V received  when the guaranteed bonds  
matured with how much the same  total sum, £10,000, would have grown  by if placed in a 
secure, interest-bearing account. To do this it should  use the returns shown by the Bank of 
Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months  maturity.  It should then add 8% simple interest to the 
resultant loss figure  and up to the date of settlement  of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Nationwide  Building Society to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13386353Provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that Nationwide  Building Society advised them to invest  too much of their 
money and in unsuitable  products in 1999, particularly given he had just retired early due to ill health.
background
Mr V agreed  to invest £7,000 in an ISA, £10,000 in a Unit Trust and £5,000 in a six-year Guaranteed  
Equity Bond (GEB).  Mrs V invested £3,000 in an ISA, £10,000 in the Unit Trust  and £5,000 in the 
same bond. So £40,000  in total.
Their representative said they were inexperienced investors, their attitude to risk was not properly 
assessed, the guaranteed bond was too complex  for them and other,  more suitable  risk-free products 
were not discussed.
An investigator at this service did not feel their complaint  should be upheld.
He thought the evidence indicated that Mr Vs circumstances had been  considered given it was noted  
that he was retired and receiving incapacity benefit. He also felt they had sufficient  monthly income 
with a reasonable  surplus so were not dependent on their savings for daily living.
He also thought there  was evidence that they were prepared to take some  risk (moderate) with 
£30,000 of their money but wanted a capital guarantee  for another  £10,000. Overall, he felt the advice 
provided a reasonable spread of medium risk investments along with a fairly straightforward capital-
guaranteed product.
Mr and Mrs Vs representative disagreed,  saying:
Far too much of their capital  was exposed to risk, particularly given Mr V had retired
Being left with just £18,000 on deposit meant virtually 70% of their money was at risk
The maximum  they should have put at any risk would have been half of their money  i.e. 
£29,000
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive read Mr and Mrs V had no real investment experience  and were not in a position to 
replace any losses on their capital given Mr V was unlikely to work again  due to incapacity  and Mrs V 
earned a modest  amount.  I therefore think the advisor  should have been far more cautious in his 
recommendations, given the substantial  risk to their future financial well-being by exposing a lot of 
their capital to significant  risk.
I have seen no evidence that he did this. I am therefore  not persuaded that Mr and Mrs V were in a 
fully informed position to decide to go ahead  with these recommendations which, in any case, I think 
were not appropriate.
Overall, I agree with their representatives view that Mr and Mrs V should  not have been advised to 
put much more than 50% of their capital  at risk at this point. It may be that their financial situation 
would evolve such that they might choose to put a little more  in risk-based investments at some point 
in the future. But shortly  after Mr Vs changed  circumstances, and given their lack of investment  
experience, I think investing  £30,000, roughly half their capital would have been the most suitable  
recommendation.
Ref: DRN13386354I also think  it would have been  appropriate  to recommend  they split this money equally between  low 
risk and medium risk products  for similar  reasons. I see no justification  for placing it all in products  
with substantial risk of significant falls. 
I note the advisor  recorded  that Mr and Mrs V were happy  to take a balanced risk with their money, 
also referred to as moderate. But there is no evidence as to how he came to such an assessment  
such as a risk-based questionnaire  and I think it is unlikely Mr and Mrs V fully appreciated  the 
implications of such a rating, particularly  given words such as balanced and moderate sound 
eminently sensible things to want.
I therefore  intend  to instruct Nationwide to compensate Mr and Mrs V by comparing  half of the money  
they invested in the two risk-based products with what they might have received via a more cautious 
investment. To do this it should use the standard formula recommended by this service  in these 
circumstances. That is, an equal combination of the returns  as shown by the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Total Income Return Index and that of the Bank of Englands fixed-rate bonds of 12 to 17 
months maturity.  If this comparison shows a loss at the date/s of surrender it must pay this and add 
8% simple interest per annum to this figure/s up to the date of settlement of this complaint.
As, in my view, they should  not have put more than 50% of their money into any risk-based products 
Nationwide will also need to pay compensation on the £10,000 invested in the GEB. While Mr and 
Mrs Vs capital was safe via this bond it nevertheless posed a significant  risk to the real value of their 
money given  it did not guarantee  any return on their money over a lengthy period  of time (six years).
Given the base rate at the time it is likely that a standard savings deposit account would  have been 
paying a guaranteed rate of at least  5.5%.  So, Mr and Mrs V were foregoing a potential  30 to 35% 
guaranteed return on their money or, to put it another way, a loss of up to a third in the real value of 
their money  by putting it into this product. I have  seen no evidence to suggest  that the advisor  spelt  
this out; instead he merely focused on the potential upside of the product. 
I also dont share Nationwides view that this was a simple product which  Mr and Mrs V could easily  
have understood. It was based on a range of global  stock market indices and Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest Mr and Mrs V were  in a position to assess  the potential prospects of, for example, the 
Japanese stock market.  So I dont think they were in a fully informed position  to decide whether they 
wanted to forego the guaranteed interest available via a deposit savings  account by speculating on 
the prospects of stock markets around the world.
Nationwide must compare  the money Mr and Mrs V received when this product matured with how 
much the same sum, £10,000, would have grown  by if placed in a secure, interest-bearing account. 
To do this it should use the returns shown by the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months  
maturity. It should then add 8% simple interest to the resultant loss figure   and to the date of 
settlement of this complaint.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Nationwide to pay compensation as outlined 
above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1338635