K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that they were  mis-sold  a U First Gold  packaged bank account 
(PBA) by Ulster Bank Ltd (Ulster Bank) in June 2011. They say they were told they had to 
pay for the PBA in order to get their mortgage,  and that they later found out that Mrs L wasnt 
covered under the travel insurance.
They would like their fees refunded.
background
When this account  was sold, the U First Gold PBA came with a range of benefits, the key 
ones being travel insurance,  mobile  phone insurance, and banking benefits  like lower 
interest rates on borrowing. It cost £15 per month. In June 2011  Mr and Mrs L made some 
changes to their mortgage,  the product being  the U First Gold  Flexi  BR mortgage, only 
available to customers who paid for the U First Gold  PBA.
Mr and Mrs L complained to Ulster  Bank, but it didnt accept that it had done anything  
wrong, so they brought their case to this service. Having looked at the evidence, the 
adjudicator didnt think the account had been mis-sold and so didnt  uphold  Mr and Mrs 
Ls complaint.
They dont accept  that and have asked an Ombudsman to review  their case  and reach a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
considering the sale of packaged bank  accounts on our website, which  everyone can read. 
Ive kept that approach in mind when considering  this case,  and having  done so, I am not 
upholding it. Ill explain why.
Did Mr and Mrs L have to have this PBA to get a mortgage?
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that they were told they had to pay for this PBA in order to get 
their mortgage  but Im satisfied that was correct, they did need to hold this PBA to get that 
particular mortgage  deal. There seems to have  been  some  confusion on this point, with 
potentially some mixed messaging  from Ulster Bank staff in 2010. But the evidence  Ive seen 
is clear,  and when they were told this in June 2011,  it was factually correct. I think  its likely 
they thought carefully about  which mortgage product was best suited to them  in 2011;  
generally such decisions are well informed  and considered as they are significant ones. So 
Im satisfied that they agreed to the PBA to get the mortgage product they wanted, and 
werent misled by Ulster  Bank  on that point.
Would Mrs L have been covered by the travel  insurance?
Mr and Mrs L have set out how they are upset that they travelled  abroad four or five times, 
believing that the travel insurance that came with this PBA covered them  both, when that 
wasnt true. They  believe  that Mrs L wasnt fully covered  as a result of a medical condition, 
and are understandably upset at that idea.
Ref: DRN11734012Having looked  at the terms  and conditions of the PBA, I think  they are right in this regard  it 
is likely  that Mrs L wouldnt have been covered for any illness  or accident that resulted from 
that condition.  But that doesnt  automatically mean that I should  uphold this complaint. Id 
need to be satisfied that the main reason they agreed to the PBA was to get the travel 
insurance before I could  fairly say the fees should  be refunded. Its clear from their testimony 
that the key factor was the mortgage, not the travel insurance. So, had it been clear  to them 
that Mrs L wouldnt be covered, I dont  think that would have stopped them  agreeing to the 
PBA.
I also havent been told about any failed  claims as a result of this lack of cover,  happily.  So 
there isnt a loss there that needs  to be considered even if they were mis-led into thinking 
Mrs L was covered when  she was not. Whilst I understand their concerns on this point, in 
short it hasnt led to any detriment, so I dont need to go on to decide whether Ulster  Bank 
made a mistake in the information they provided.
Mr and Mrs L have also raised  a concern about  whether  they received a preferential interest 
rate on a loan. However, that loan was taken out in 2008, three years before the sale that Im 
considering. They can speak to Ulster Bank  separately about the interest rate applied  to that 
loan if they are unhappy about it.
I realise that this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs L, but I hope  my 
explanation has been helpful.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Ulster Bank  doesnt  need to 
do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2021.
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1173401