K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him an Advance  packaged 
bank account  in 2011. Hes also complained that HSBC unfairly charged him for an 
insurance aspects  package from November 2014.  
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr Es complaint  and didnt think HSBC had mis-sold the 
Advance account. Mr E disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Es complaint.  
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen, Im not upholding  Mr Es complaint. Id 
like to explain the reasons for my decision in more  detail.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr E was given  a clear choice in taking this account.  At this 
point, it may also help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based  on what I 
think is more likely  than not to have happened. 
When the parties to a complaint disagree about  what happened (such as here)  and theres a 
lack of evidence  from the time, I have to think about what  I have  been  provided with, what I 
do know and the wider circumstances at the time. In other  words,  what  l have to do, in this 
case, is decide what I think is more likely than not to have  happened  having weighed up 
what both Mr E and HSBC have been  able to provide me with.  
  
Mr E upgraded to the fee paying Advance account  from a free one. So I think Mr E wouldve 
known HSBC did free accounts and that he couldve  had one of those if thats what  he really 
wanted. As this is the case,  I think its more  likely  than not that Mr E chose to upgrade  to the 
Advance account after having been given  a choice. 
When Mr E was sold the Advance account  a couple  of the main  benefits it included were  fee 
free overseas cash withdrawals and travel  insurance. Mr E did use the overseas cash  
withdrawal service. He says this wasnt fee free as he paid non-sterling transaction fees. But 
the non-standard transaction fees werent HSBC  charges. They were the fees charged by 
the cash machine  providers Mr E used when abroad.  HSBCs free account holders would 
also have paid an additional fee to HSBC for using  their card abroad. 
As Mr E had the Advance account  he didnt  have to pay this fee. So Im satisfied that Mr E 
did receive an overseas  cash  withdrawal  benefit.  As Mr E travelled,  I also think that he 
couldve found the travel  insurance useful too. Bearing all of this in mind, it appears to me 
that the Advance account was a reasonable fit for Mr Es circumstances. And I think that he 
was able to benefit from what he upgraded for.
I accept that the terms of the Advance account changed in 2014.  And at that point it was 
possible for a customer to opt out of the insurance  benefits while  still maintaining the 
preferential banking terms (such  as the overseas cash withdrawal benefit), as long as they 
Ref: DRN10074402met the eligibility criteria. Mr E says that he shouldnt have been charged for the insurance 
aspects package after this.
But HSBC  has provided me with evidence from its system records  to show me that Mr E was 
sent a letter,  at his then address, notifying  him about the upcoming changes to the Advance  
account in September 2014.  And Mr E was given the opportunity  of opting out of the 
insurance. Mr E says he didnt receive  this letter. But as the vast majority  of correctly 
addressed mail is successfully delivered  I think it was more likely delivered sometime in 
September 2014. I accept that Mr E might not recall reading it  possibly because he didnt 
realise its significance  at the time  but this, on its own, doesnt mean that it wasnt sent or 
that it wasnt delivered. 
Ive also seen that Mr E believes  he should have been opted  out of the insurance  aspects  
package automatically.  But I dont think that it wouldve  been  fair and reasonable for HSBC 
to have done this as Mr E mightve been relying on the travel insurance.  And it wouldve 
been unfair to remove cover in these circumstances  especially bearing in mind  the 
implications. So I think it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to require Mr E to opt out of the 
insurance aspects package.  And as Mr E didnt do so, I dont think  that it was unreasonable 
for HSBC to charge the monthly fee.   
 
Mr E may now believe he didnt benefit as much hed initially  hoped  and expected  to. And 
given what he mayve  since read and heard about  packaged accounts  and learning the 
criteria for the Advance account changed,  I can understand why he may believe his account 
was mis-sold. But I think he chose to take the account having a decent understanding  of 
what it included. So I want to reassure  Mr E that having looked at everything provided and 
thought about what hes said, I dont think HSBC  mis-sold the Advance account to him, or 
that it treated  him unfairly when switching him to the insurance aspects package either.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1007440