K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained about an instalment loan approved by Uncle Buck Finance LLP 
(Uncle Buck). Mrs H says Uncle Buck lent her the loan when she couldnt  afford  to repay  it. 
Mrs H also says she found  Uncle Bucks  final response letter  threatening.
background
Mrs H was given a loan for £200  by Uncle Buck in July 2018  this loan was due to be repaid 
in six monthly instalments. The maximum instalment  payment was around £65. Mrs H has 
said Uncle Buck was aware  and had a discussion with her about her debt of over £3,000  to 
other lenders but it still gave her the loan. Uncle Buck  says theres no evidence on its system 
that it discussed this with Mrs H. 
Mrs H was repaying the loan through a repayment arrangement until she informed  
Uncle Buck  she had a serious illness, Uncle Buck says it has now put her account in a 
breathing space. When  Mrs H complained  to Uncle  Buck  in September  2018, it didnt 
uphold her complaint.  It said the checks it carried out were proportionate and it hadnt done  
anything wrong  by lending to her.
Unhappy with the response, Mrs H referred  her complaint to this service.  One of our 
adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Uncle Buck  gave Mrs H the loan when  
she couldnt sustainably  afford to repay  it. 
As Uncle Buck didnt  accept the adjudicators opinion, the complaint has come to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Uncle Buck  needed  to carry out proportionate checks  to see that Mrs H could sustainably 
afford to make  her loan repayments before agreeing to lend. Its checks needed to be 
customer focussed and could take into account things like the size and length of the loan 
and what it knew about the customer.  
Uncle Buck  has told this service that it searched Mrs Hs credit  file, checked her income  and 
regular outgoings  before agreeing to lend to her. Uncle Buck has provided a summary of its 
search of Mrs Hs file and Mrs H has also provided a copy  of her credit  file and I cant  see 
that there  were any defaults or county court judgements (CCJs)  recorded  on her file at the 
time.
Uncle Buck  also said it independently verified  Mrs Hs income and its records  showed  that 
she earned around £1,100. Mrs H told Uncle  Buck  that her regular expenses were  around 
£1,000  this included:
Store/credit cards  - £450
Transport - £100
Utilities  £250
Food - £200
Ref: DRN12300852Based on the information Uncle Buck knew about  Mrs H at the time, she had around £100 of 
monthly disposable income of which more than half over a six month  period had to be used 
to repay  the loan.
One question  that Ive had to consider here is whether  I think  its responsible  for Uncle  Buck 
to have lent to Mrs H given that it knew she would be left with around £35 of disposable 
income after making the loan repayments. Ive asked Uncle Buck  why it thought  this amount 
of disposable  income was sufficient but it hasnt provided a response.
When Mrs H complained  to Uncle Buck she said she had two children and was receiving 
child benefit of around £430 per month  this wasnt something she told Uncle Buck  at the 
time of the loan.
Mrs H has also said her credit file showed  that she was in debt of more than £3,000 and 
Uncle Buck  knew this. From Mrs Hs credit  file and bank statements, I can see that she was 
due to make  monthly  repayments of more than £500  to other  short term lenders. The fact 
that Mrs H had outstanding debts doesnt  on its own automatically mean Uncle Buck 
shouldnt have lent to her. I would expect Uncle Buck to consider Mrs Hs circumstances as 
a whole when  making its lending  decisions.  The checks  Uncle  Buck carried  out showed that 
Mrs H may not have been in a position  to sustainably repay this loan over its term.
I think Uncle Bucks  checks raised  some concerns about Mrs Hs ability  to sustainably repay 
the loan over the term and this should have prompted further checks. As a responsible 
lender, Id expect  Uncle Buck to not only collect information but consider that information  and 
react to it accordingly.  In this instance, it should  perhaps have checked  if Mrs H had other 
income  as it suggests that there was a business registered to her address. It may also 
have wanted to know if she had other debt repayments before lending  to her.
Even with the child benefit Mrs H received,  I dont  think  that this loan was affordable as she 
still had to make repayments over £500  to other lenders and in those circumstances  after 
deducting her declared living costs,  Mrs H didnt have enough  to repay  the loan.
So given what Uncle Buck knew about Mrs H at the time, I think  the disposable income  she 
was left with after making the loan repayment  wasnt sufficient to satisfy 
Uncle Buck  that she could  sustainably afford  to repay the loan over the term. And had 
Uncle Buck  carried out further checks as I think it should have been prompted to do, it would 
have found that Mrs H couldnt afford the loan.
Ive reviewed Uncle Bucks final response letter which Mrs H said was threatening. She 
hasnt explained  why she feels this was the case.  The letter  goes into details about 
Uncle Bucks checks  and why it thought  it lent responsibly to Mrs H. It also reminds Mrs H 
about her outstanding balance - asking her to make contact to agree a repayment plan and 
that it will begin recovery action if it didnt hear from her. The tone of the letter  doesnt  come 
across as threatening but contains  information that I consider reasonable in the 
circumstances. So with the information I have  I cant say that Uncle Buck  did anything wrong 
here.
Because Uncle Buck gave Mrs H a loan she couldnt sustainably  afford  to repay,  when it 
ought to have known this, it should;
refund  any interest and charges  Mrs H paid towards  the loan she was given in 
July 2018.
Ref: DRN12300853add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.  
Uncle Buck can deduct the outstanding capital amount and pay any surplus  redress 
to Mrs H.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mrs Hs credit file in relation to the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Uncle  Buck to take off tax from this interest. 
Uncle Buck  must give Mrs H a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and require Uncle Buck Finance LLP to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1230085