The complaint
Mr C complains about the charges Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as AEGON has applied  
to his section 32 buy-out policy. For simplicity, Ive referred to the business  as AEGON  in 
the rest of this decision.
Mr C says that AEGON hasnt provided him with sufficient detail about the 
plan charges.
He says that AEGON  hasnt responded fully or in a timely way to his 
complaints and enquiries.
He also feels AEGON  has tried to prematurely close  down  his complaint by 
offering him compensation.
What happened
Mr Cs pension was transferred to AEGON  in November 2003.  A single contribution  of
£58,781.43 was received from the trustees  of his occupational pension  scheme  to set up 
his section 32 buy-out  policy.
In January 2015, Mr C wrote to AEGON querying  the charges payable  and asking for 
information to enable him to take a decision  about whether to transfer his pension to 
his existing active pension  scheme with another  provider.
In February 2015,  AEGON wrote back.  It told Mr C there was a fund management charge 
(also known as an annual management  charge or AMC) of 1% deducted from the unit 
prices of each fund. It also said there was a transfer  value  charge (or TVC)  of 0.75% of the 
value of the money transferred to the policy, deducted yearly. AEGON  said he was not 
being charged for transferring his policy  and that this charge would have been applied  to 
the old policy too. It said the charge  came  into force when the regular contributions  into his 
plan stopped. And that the charges  had then been transferred to the buy-out policy.
Following a further  request from Mr C for clarification about the charges, later in 
February 2015,  AEGON  said the total annual deduction from Mr Cs policy was 
1.75%.
In March 2015, AEGON  told Mr C that the TVC hed been told about of 0.75% applied  to 
his plan number  ending 835 only. And that there was a TVC charge for his plan ending  
680 of 2.84%.  It apologised for not making this clearer in the earlier  correspondence.
Mr C did not to get back in contact  with AEGON regarding charges until the end of August  
2018. In August 2018, he queried  the amount of the AMC  and the Policy  Fee hed been 
charged. He said given  the fees were in excess of 2%, when hed been told they would be 
1%, he was considering the option of transferring to another  provider where he had an 
active pension scheme.
AEGON responded  in late September 2018 and told Mr C the Policy Fee referred to on 
his statement was in fact the TVC, which was of varying percentages of the money 
transferred to the policy, deducted yearly.
AEGON also said in October 2018,  it had mistakenly  failed to charge Mr C the correct
Policy Fee from 2003, when the buy-out policy was set up. It said the underpayment was
£3,361.48. It said it would not seek to recover this or increase ongoing charges to recover  
it, as it was caused by an administrative error on its part.
Regarding the origin of the Policy Fee, AEGON initially said this related to the previous 
occupational pension scheme  plan,  which was trustee administered. It said AEGON 
Ref: DRN1941092needed the consent of the trustees  to provide copies of the documentation to a party. It 
said it did not have  the trustees permission to pass on this information to Mr C.
Regarding the AMC, AEGON says it did not have  to provide a breakdown of his AMC prior 
to the 2018 statement. But in 2018,  the Financial  Conduct Authority introduced new 
requirements, prompting AEGON to include  the monetary equivalent in statements from 
that point onwards. Prior to this, it says it wasnt required to provide the AMC figure  in 
monetary terms, nor was it required to provide details of other charges in annual  
statements.
It said his AMC was 1% of his fund value per annum and it was deducted via daily 
adjustment to the unit price, in line with industry  standards. It said calculation  of the 
monetary equivalent  involved  a very complex calculation. Due to the complexity of the 
calculation, AEGON said it explained to Mr C that it was not practical or proportionate to 
carry out the calculation Mr C required for previous  years.  It also considered  it 
inappropriate to carry out this calculation given  that it was not seeking to recover  the 
underpayment of the TVC.
Mr C made  a series of complaints to AEGON  about  its failure to provide clear 
information about the charges. He also complained  about the timeliness and 
completeness of its responses.
Mr C said AEGON had continuously failed to show how the underpayment was calculated 
or how the Policy  Fee (also known as TVC)  contractually fell due.
AEGON offered Mr C £500  compensation in total for his trouble and upset. It did so, 
acknowledging that it had failed to respond  promptly to Mr Cs queries received in 
September 2018, and had not handled his complaints  as well as it could. It also upheld 
his complaint about not providing  Mr C with sufficient  detail  in its earlier  communications.  
It did not accept that the first time it told him about  charges in addition to the 1% AMC 
was in 2018. It says it told him about  this in early 2015.
AEGON said its offer of compensation was to recognise the material distress and 
inconvenience AEGON  had caused Mr C and was not made to induce him into closing 
his complaints down  prematurely.
Ref: DRN1941092Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint.  She considered that AEGONs offer 
of settlement  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C didnt agree with our adjudicators decision and asked for his case  to be referred  to 
an ombudsman. He said, in summary,  he wasnt in a position to accept AEGONs offer 
because it had persistently failed to provide the information he asked for.
He further submitted that looking at the two statements  from 2018  and 2019 setting out 
the deductions, it appeared AEGON had deducted  a higher charge, contrary  to what its 
said about not increasing the charges going forward.
Mr C said he had been unable to transfer  his fund to an alternative  provider, one with 
a more appropriate charging structure,  due to matters remaining unresolved.
In terms of the overpayment, Mr C said AEGON had not been transparent in fully 
explaining the error or showing how it reached  the underpayment figure  of £3,361.48.
AEGON said in response, there  was no discrepancy in the total deduction from the policy  
now. This was because  for plan ending  835 the TVC was 0.75%, but for plan ending  680 
the TVC was 2.84%.  So, overall,  this took the total deduction from the policy  to nearer 1% 
(plus the AMC, so nearer  2% in total).
I asked AEGON to send this service  any documents it had setting out the legal basis  for 
collecting the TVC/Policy Fee, and to obtain the Trustees  permission, if it considered it 
necessary, to do so. AEGON responded and said it did not need  to obtain the Trustees 
consent as the scheme had been wound  up. It also said all the information about  Mr Cs 
plan had been deleted from its system.
As the former scheme employer still appeared to be in existence, I asked AEGON to see if 
it could obtain  information concerning the fees/charges  from that employer. AEGON 
provided no further information about the fees and charges.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Cs complaint  in March  2020, saying I was minded 
to uphold it. AEGON didnt agree with my provisional decision. In its response, one of the 
things it raised was the Limitation Act. The Limitation Act doesnt apply to our service, but 
there are rules  which  govern how our service  operates. These  rules  are laid down by 
Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000, published by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority and known as the DISP rules. They  set out the extent of our 
powers, including the time limits that apply to our complaints.
The rules  say that, unless the business consents, or there are exceptional reasons to 
explain the delay,  we cant consider a complaint if its been brought  more than:  six years 
from the date of the event complained of; or, if later,   three years from the date when the 
consumer knew, or ought reasonably to have  known,  they had cause to complain.
We asked AEGON whether it was now saying that some,  or all, of Mr Cs complaint had 
been made out of time, and if it considered it was out of time under the DISP  rules, 
whether it was consenting to us dealing with some  or all of Mr Cs complaint.
Aegon said it was consenting to us dealing with some parts of Mr Cs complaint, but not 
others. That being the case, I had to consider  whether  our service had jurisdiction to deal 
with all parts  of Mr Cs complaint. I issued my final decision on our jurisdiction in March  
2021.
Ref: DRN1941092K820x#14I concluded that this service did not have jurisdiction  to deal with all parts of Mr Cs 
complaint. Understandably  Mr C was disappointed to be told this, given I indicated  in 
my March 2020 provisional  decision  I was minded to uphold his complaint in full.
In May 2021, I issued  my provisional  decision  on the merits of the parts of Mr Cs complaint 
that we could still deal with. I said I was minded not uphold his complaint.
Mr Cs complaint now comes back to me for a final decision to be issued on those 
parts of his complaint which I found were within our jurisdiction to deal with. These 
were:
the underpayment  whether wrong charges were applied;  and
recovery of the underpayment.
Mr C confirmed that he had received my provisional decision but said it would be 
inappropriate for him to comment on it due to our grossly flawed processes  and the 
inordinate amount of time he had wasted on this over a two-year period. He said our actions 
needed to be separately reviewed.
AEGON did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As neither party has 
made any further representations to change my view, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision and for the same  reasons. I will repeat those 
reasons here.
underpayment
From what  AEGONs said the underpayment arises from a manual error on opening  the 
plan back in 2003. It said the correct  transfer  in amounts were used, but the TVC was 
set too low. It says the underpayment  figure  reached  is based on a rough calculation 
and it would be very complex and time consuming  to prepare a more  detailed 
calculation.
AEGON thinks  the effort  required to produce this information would be 
disproportionate, given  that it has written off the underpayment. It said it had placed  
Mr C in a more favourable  position  than he would otherwise have been in, but for 
AEGONs error.
Mr C would like AEGON to provide him with full details of how the underpayment 
has been calculated.
I have concluded  that this service does not have jurisdiction to look further into the legal 
basis of the TVC and AMC charges payable. AEGON informed Mr C of the level of 
charges payable, I cant go behind this. In February  2019, AEGON told Mr C:
we made a business decision not to recover these charges or to amend the policy  to 
deduct the correct  (higher) charge in the future.  This means you are in a better  financial 
position, despite us having authority to legitimately take them.
Ref: DRN19410926Going forward the charge  will apply once more  on 06 October 2019 and will cease after 
that. When you reach your nominated retirement date the charge will no longer apply.
Ive not seen anything to show  that Mr C has been  overcharged or that AEGON has tried 
to recover the underpaid amount of charges caused  by its administrative error. As I 
understand it, AEGON  did not amend the deduction rate to recover the underpayment and 
it continued to deduct future charges at the incorrect lower rate until 6 October  2019,  
when charges ceased.
As AEGON is not seeking to recover this underpayment, I cant  see that Mr C has lost 
out financially. Further, as I am not going to make an award for financial loss in relation 
to this part of Mr Cs complaint. I dont  need  the information  Mr C seeks  for redress 
calculation purposes. Overall, it seems to me, in these circumstances, that it would 
involve disproportionate  effort to require AEGON to produce a calculation  going back 
over around 15 years, containing  the level of detail Mr C might like, where hes not lost 
out financially.
recovery of underpayment
I made  further enquiry with AEGON  as to whether it had sought in any way to recover the
£3,361.48 underpayment  from Mr Cs pension plan.  It said it had not. Ive not seen 
enough evidence  from Mr C to show that this overpayment was collected in full or part 
after the promise was made not to recover it. AEGON also said,  as well as not collecting 
the underpayment, it did not increase future  charges to the correct level, it kept them  at 
the previous incorrect  rate. So, taking everything  into account, I dont uphold  this aspect 
of Mr Cs complaint because I cant see that Mr C has lost out financially.
transfer to his existing scheme
Mr C mentioned not being able to transfer his AEGON pension into his existing pension  
scheme until this charges  issue was resolved. However, from what Mr Cs said about the 
level of charges in his existing scheme,  they were much less than AEGONs charges. Its 
possible there may have  been another good reason for Mr C wanting to maintain his 
AEGON pension (which Im not aware  of at this time).  Taking everything into account, my 
view is that it wouldve still been possible  for Mr C to transfer his pension and pursue this 
complaint. I dont see that it would be reasonable to find that  Mr C lost out financially 
because he was waiting  for the charging  issue to be resolved. So, I am not going  to 
uphold this part of Mr Cs complaint.
trouble and upset
I understand this has all caused  Mr C quite some  upset and inconvenience. Some  of this 
arises from concerns about  the level of AMC and TVC charges, which for the reasons I 
have explained,  I am not dealing with here. Given the parts of Mr Cs complaint that I can 
now deal with, I have  thought carefully about  whether AEGONs  offer of £500 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused is a fair and reasonable response  in the 
circumstances. I think  it is, given the limited basis of the complaint I am considering now.
Understandably, Mr C may be disappointed by this outcome given  the views expressed  in 
my first provisional  decision on the merits before a decision was taken that we couldnt 
Ref: DRN19410927investigate certain aspects of his complaint.   But, as I explained  in that provisional
decision, I have  to consider any representations  made before issuing a final decision. I am 
sorry that the jurisdiction  issues were  not identified and resolved at an earlier stage. I 
acknowledge that it has taken a while to deal with all aspects of Mr Cs complaint, but as 
can been seen  here,  this service sought  additional information from both Mr C and AEGON 
to clarify matters, in response to representations made by them.
I understand Mr C did not accept the £500 compensation  AEGON  offered  him for the 
trouble and upset caused. To put matters  right, I think a fair outcome would be for AEGON  
to pay Mr C £500 for his trouble and upset.
My final decision
To put matters right, Scottish Equitable Plc should  pay Mr C £500 ompensation 
for his trouble  and upset, should  Mr C decide  to accept it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2021.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1941092