K820x#14complaint
Miss A says Santander  UK Plc (then trading  as Alliance  and Leicester, but Ill just refer to 
Santander from now on) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1998 Miss A took out a PPI policy alongside a mortgage. She paid a monthly  amount  for 
the policy and it protected  her mortgage repayments  in the event  of accident, sickness  and 
unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
Miss A mainly  said that she doesnt  recall  a conversation about mortgage protection and had 
never been sent any paperwork  about  the PPI. She told us she doesnt remember  deciding  
to take the policy  and that she had savings to cover any mortgage  repayments. She also told 
us she didn't realise shed taken this policy out. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss As complaint. Ill explain  my reasons.
Santander hasnt  been able to provide  any notes  of the meeting when Miss A discussed her 
mortgage application  which is unsurprising after so long. Santander isnt required to keep 
these all this time and the lack of paperwork isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
So I cant know what (if anything) Santander said about the PPI when Miss A arranged to 
take it out. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect  her to recall exactly  what  was discussed at 
the time as this was so long ago. This means that what  Miss A says now isnt enough  on its 
own for me to be able to uphold her complaint about the way Santander sold her the PPI. 
But I think the paperwork wouldve made it clear to Miss A that PPI was an available  option 
with her mortgage and it was up to her to say if she wanted any cover. 
The mortgage application included a section dealing  with insurance. It says here:  
With this application you will find details  of (other insurance)..and our Mortgage 
Payment Cover Schemes. If you would like us to arrange this cover, just tick the appropriate  
box and we will send you an application  form.
And I can see that theres a typed x in the box marked  Mortgage Payment Cover. This is 
what Santander called its mortgage PPI. The boxes  for the other types of insurance werent 
selected.
Miss A has said that she didnt actually put the x there herself. And thats  likely  to be right. 
But I think this x probably reflects the information and instructions Miss A told the advisor at 
the time when the form was being prepared for printing off for her to check  and sign.
Ref: DRN14897732Miss A has signed her completed  application at the end, next to where it says: 
Please  ensure that you have replied to all the questions  on this form,  and that you have 
carefully checked the answers, before you sign.
So I would expect  Miss A to have looked over the form carefully before signing, to ensure 
that her application reflected her wishes and the information on it was correct. 
PPI wasnt included automatically as part of the mortgage  it had to be applied for 
separately. Although I havent  seen  how Miss A applied for the PPI it looks  likely she would  
have filled in a separate  application  form in order to have  it added on to the mortgage, even 
though she doesnt recall  doing that and theres  no copy  of a signed form available  now.  
I say this because  Santander sent Miss A a welcome letter  afterwards on 31 July 1998 
which confirmed that she had been accepted for cover and said May I take this opportunity 
to welcome you to the scheme. 
It also included the schedule of insurance  and Statement of Cover showing  the cover  shed 
taken. Miss A couldve  queried the PPI then if this wasnt something she wanted. But, from 
what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened.
Miss A says she never received this paperwork  and I accept thats possible. But I think its 
more likely she may have  misplaced this and forgotten about it. As far as I can see it was 
correctly addressed to her and theres  no record of it being returned through the post to the 
sender. And I cant reasonably say that the PPI was added without her knowledge or 
involvement as she had to make  separate payment arrangements  at her bank to pay for it  
if she hadnt done that then the PPI wouldnt  have  been added to her mortgage account.  
I can see why Miss A mightve wanted  PPI when she was responsible on her own for paying 
the mortgage. It was a big financial  commitment  and her home couldve been at risk if she 
wasnt able to make her mortgage  monthly  repayments in full and on time. So I think its 
likely that protecting  her repayments wouldve been  an important consideration for her. 
Its completely understandable if Miss A has now forgotten some  of these details from when 
she was sold this PPI. But, on balance, I think its likely that she decided  she wanted  to have 
the benefits the policy offered her. I find on balance that Miss A signed up for the policy  
knowing it was up to her to say if she wanted to take out the cover.  And that it was added to 
her mortgage account when  she requested this.
Santander advised Miss A to take out the PPI. If a financial business  makes a 
recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving  important policy information in a clear way.
Miss A told us that she had savings worth  at least 12 months  of her salary and that she 
wasnt entitled to any sick pay from her employer. Taking into account what  shes  told us 
about her situation  at the time, I think PPI couldve been useful. 
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if shed been off work as a result 
of accident or sickness. Also the policy wouldve covered her mortgage  repayments for up to 
12 months per claim if shed lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Ref: DRN14897733I dont know if Miss A wouldve always had savings she couldve relied on if shed  needed to 
make a claim. And, if she didnt put all her money towards keeping down the cost of 
borrowing, I think shed have valued  the protection PPI offered if it meant she could keep her 
savings intact  for other things or to provide financial security.  
Having PPI wouldve  meant Miss A could be sure shed  always  be able to keep up the 
monthly repayments in order to protect her home.  As far as I can see, Miss A couldve made 
repeated claims on the policy, giving  her long term protection for her mortgage.  
So, looking  at her circumstances at the time, I think PPI was suitable.
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as if that wouldve affected Miss A. 
So, I dont think more  information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve made 
any difference to Miss As decision to take out PPI. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Miss A before she signed up to have it. The 
cost of the policy was shown  in the welcome letter sent to her and she couldve  queried it 
then if she decided this wasnt  something she wanted to pay for. Miss A applied for the 
policy when she didnt  have to take it out and the welcome letter  confirms  that shed  already  
set up direct debit arrangements at the bank  to cover the cost of the monthly  premiums  for 
the policy. This suggests to me that she was happy to pay for the cover shed chosen to take 
out at the time. From what Ive seen, Miss A hasnt suggested that she couldnt  afford  the 
monthly premiums. And as she was paying  for the PPI monthly,  she could cancel it if her 
situation changed or she no longer wanted  it.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Miss A still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as the 
policy gave her worthwhile protection in her particular situation. I dont think having  better  
information wouldve  stopped her buying  it.
Santander has sent us information  from the insurers records  showing  that Miss A contacted 
the insurance provider in 2002 to increase the amount of cover  the notes  say that she said 
she was increasing  her mortgage.  And Santanders records  indicate that she took out a new 
mortgage around that time. As that increase was something Miss A arranged direct  with the 
insurer and she didnt  take out a new PPI policy (she just continued the existing one -but 
amended), I dont need to say any more  about  that here  it doesnt affect my decision on 
whether Santander  mis-sold her the PPI in 1998. 
This means  I dont  think that Miss A has lost out as a result  of anything that Santander did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
I appreciate that Miss A feels strongly  about this complaint. I understand that what  Ive said 
will come as a disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points raised that 
have an impact on the outcome of this complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as 
Ive done will help explain  how Ive reached  my decision.
Ref: DRN14897734my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1489773