K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) could not accept  his Halifax 
cheque to pay a third party credit card bill. 
background
Mr R visited a Halifax branch to pay a third party credit  card bill with cash and a cheque. 
Halifax explained it could  not process  the cheque, the third party would need to do this.
He went to the third partys branch to make the payment but was unhappy with the 
inconvenience this caused him. He rang Halifax  to complain and asked for compensation. 
There followed long calls and Mr R is unhappy with the time he was on the phone. Halifax 
said there had been  no bank error, what he was told was correct  and so declined to 
compensate Mr R.
The adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She said Halifax  had given  Mr R the correct 
advice  it didnt  have a process to allow him to pay his third party  credit  card bill by cheque 
in a Halifax branch.  And she felt it was Mr Rs choice to pursue his complaint by phone 
despite it being confirmed there was no bank error. Also, she noted, he was told there  were  
other ways  he could raise  a complaint.
Mr R was unhappy with this outcome. He said, in summary, he wasnt ever put through  
directly to the complaints team, and hed been put on hold for extensive  periods of time and 
for this Halifax should reimburse £20 of call costs. He also said the branch adviser hadnt 
told him about bill payment. And the final response  letter never arrived, until a branch made 
him a copy  a month after it was dated.
So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for largely the same reasons. I have considered all of 
Mr Rs comments  carefully. In keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution  service 
I will comment here only on those which I consider to be material  to his complaint. 
I understand Mr R felt inconvenienced  as Halifax couldnt process his cheque to pay his third 
party credit card bill. He sees  the banks service  as flawed. He says the branch didnt 
mention any bill payment  options, but just told him to pay the bill at the third party. I cant 
know what exactly was said in the branch, but it doesnt seem that Mr R was given any 
incorrect advice. From the evidence Ive seen the bill payment option was explained in the 
final response letter, and I havent  seen that the bank is saying it told Mr R about this in the 
branch.  
So I cant fairly say the bank was responsible for Mr Rs inconvenience. And I think  its most 
likely all the different ways he could pay the bill would have been listed on the reverse  of his 
third party credit card statement. It seems Mr R essentially wanted to use a service Halifax 
doesnt offer. And the range of banking services it offers is not something we have the 
powers to get involved in.
Ref: DRN17573622I have listened  carefully  to the calls between the parties. I accept there were a number of 
occasions Mr R was placed on hold. But I think on each of these occasions the bank was 
trying to help Mr R. It also explained  a number of times that the branch advice was accurate 
so it was unlikely  his complaint would be upheld  and different advisers checked that for 
him when  he challenged the explanation he was given. I think this contributed to the lengthy 
call times.  As did his choice to register his complaint on the phone. He was told he could do 
this online  or by letter if he didnt want to spend more time on the phone. In addition, on one 
occasion when  the adviser  returned to the call, whilst Mr R could be heard in the 
background, the adviser couldnt  get him back on the call despite repeated  attempts. This 
caused a follow-up call where information  had to be repeated. 
So overall, whilst I can understand that it was very frustrating to be on such  long calls, and to 
be placed on hold more than once, for the reasons  set out above  I dont think  its reasonable 
to instruct the bank to pay Mr Rs call costs.
With regards the final response letter, the bank has been able to evidence when it was sent 
and that it was sent to the correct  address  so I cant fairly hold it liable for the non-receipt.
In summary,  whilst I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr R, I havent  found 
evidence of any bank  error that I need  to tell it to put right.
  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1757362