K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that ReAssure  Limited (ReAssure) have failed to consider a critical 
illness claim for which they believe they are covered. 
background
Mr and Mrs W applied  for a mortgage with Woolwich Building Society in January 1999.  They  
received advice from one of Woolwichs  financial advisors (K) in relation to taking out a 
protection policy with the mortgage.  ReAssure  have since  taken over Woolwichs  business  
and has taken responsibility for the advice provided  and sale of any products at the time. So 
any reference made to ReAssure within  this decision  should be read as including  the original 
acts or omissions of Woolwich Building  Society.
Mr and Mrs W say they were under  the impression that they had taken out a joint life policy 
with critical illness cover, as this was what had been discussed with K, and for which a quote 
had been provided and accepted. The policy began on 31 March  1999 and was set to run for 
a 24-year term with a monthly  premium of £40.02. 
Mr W sadly suffered  a stroke in April 2017,  so Mrs W submitted a critical illness  claim on his 
behalf. But ReAssure  said that critical illness cover did not form part of the policy  that was 
taken out by Mr and Mrs W in 1999,  as this was for mortgage protection/life cover only.  In 
summary they said:
A decreasing term policy was recommended  by K for a monthly premium of £85.84,  
which initially did include  life and critical illness cover;
Mr and Mrs W accepted this recommendation  and an application was submitted in 
February 1999, which prompted a request for a medical report  for Mr W from his GP;
Following receipt of the medical  report, an increase in premium was applied to cover 
the additional risk identified  in the report,  and a letter  was sent to Mr and Mrs W 
informing them of this on 26 February 1999;
However, on 4 March 1999, K requested that ReAssure  write to Mr and Mrs W to 
confirm why there was a loading put alongside the original policy, and also requested  
that they amended the policy to a benefit  of life cover only with no critical illness  
cover;
ReAssure wrote to Mr and Mrs W on 25 March  1999 saying that the application had 
been amended  to a Mortgage Protection Plan (life) only in line with Ks instructions 
and that they would send revised terms;
The policy documentation  was issued  on 31 March 1999 which confirmed the basis 
of cover as being a Mortgage Protection Plan only at a premium  of £40.02 per month.
As a result, ReAssure said that the policy amendment was clearly  communicated  in writing  
and that that the revised terms were  not disputed by Mr and Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs W recollect a significantly different version of events and dispute ReAssures 
submissions. In summary:
They had a face to face meeting with K in January 1999, where she quoted two 
premium options of £18.24 for payment protection only,  and £39.21  for life, joint 
mortgage protection and critical illness cover; 
Both options were  outlined in handwritten form (as well as in type format),  and they 
agreed to proceed with the option including critical illness  cover for £39.21.  The 
Ref: DRN13771422quotation was signed by all parties,  which Mr and Mrs W submit is a legally binding 
and enforceable  agreement;
No authority was given to K to amend the policy to mortgage  protection  only; 
They received  a letter on 25 March 1999 from ReAssure stating that a small extra 
premium was added in respect of the critical illness benefit on Mr Ws life following a 
medical report from his GP. This letter did not specify  the amount of the extra 
premium, but Mr and Mrs W assumed it to be negligible;
The policy documentation  was received on 31 March 1999,  including the policy  terms 
and conditions, which was titled Mortgage Protection Plan with Critical Illness;
They noted that the policy schedule  did not make any reference  to critical illness  
cover but saw that the last sentence of the policy schedule  also stated This  policy  
comprises this scheduleand Cover {Wl131}, which is the code noted on the back 
page of the policy terms and conditions  that refer to critical  illness  cover. So they 
believed this to be confirmation that the cover  was included;
They did not at any stage believe that they were not covered for critical illness cover,  
and so they did not return the cooling off notice as they were happy with the cover 
they thought they had;
Mr and Mrs W were charged  a premium of £40.02, which they believed  was the 
small increase from the original  premium quoted  of £39.21  they have never  seen 
the letter dated 26 February 1999 which ReAssure  claim to have sent,  which outlined 
a premium of £85.84  with an extra £22.97  for a 24 year mortgage protection  plan with 
critical illness cover. These  were  not the figures  they signed for in January 1999, and 
they have never been presented with this quote before.
Mr and Mrs W say that the documentation misled them into believing they had critical illness 
cover included in their policy and say that ReAssure should honour Mr Ws claim as a result. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he thought it was clear  from the revised and 
amended terms that the policy did not include critical illness  cover. Mr and Mrs W disagreed,  
so the matter has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I am sorry  to hear about Mr Ws change in health and sympathise with how difficult  this time 
must have  been  for both Mr and Mrs W. And Id like to reassure them  that I have considered  
everything they have  said and all the documentation  they have sent to this service in relation 
to their complaint.  But in the circumstances, Im unable  to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Having read through their testimony, I do not doubt  that Mr and Mrs W believed that they 
had critical illness cover included in their policy. But I have to consider whether, in the 
circumstances, there  is enough  evidence to suggest  that ReAssure should be liable to cover 
a critical illness claim where  as a matter of fact  this cover  was not eventually included  in 
the policy that was taken  out.
Mr and Mrs W submit that the quote they were provided with and signed  for in January 1999  
 which  included life and critical illness cover for a monthly premium of £39.21  is a legally 
binding and enforceable agreement. But I do not consider that it is. The form that 
Mr and Mrs W have  signed is a summary  of the financial  advice provided by K as to what 
products would be most suitable for them. It is not a contract with terms and conditions or 
Ref: DRN13771423respective rights and obligations placed  on both parties.  And the signature was required  to 
acknowledge receipt of the advice. In effect,  it was an application  for cover.  The policy  still 
had to be underwritten  based on Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances and the proposed risk still 
had to be accepted by the insurer, with the terms and price being  subject to change. So I do 
not accept that the signed form is a legally binding agreement that would oblige ReAssure to 
provide Mr and Mrs W with critical illness cover which subsequently was not included in their 
policy. 
Following the quote in January 1999,  it was not until 31 March 1999 that the policy  was 
eventually finalised and issued. And it was in between this period  that the policy was 
seemingly amended to exclude critical illness cover. Both parties allege that the other is 
responsible for the policy subsequently being  amended. And given the length  of time that 
has passed since the policy was taken out, there is very little contemporaneous  evidence  
available from this period to shed any further  light on what  happened exactly. So I have had 
to base my conclusions on what I consider to be most likely based on the little evidence that 
is available.
Mr and Mrs W say they have  never  seen the letter dated 26 February 1999, where ReAssure 
set out revised  acceptance terms offering a mortgage protection  plan with critical illness 
cover for a monthly premium of £85.84, plus an extra  premium  of £22.97 for 24 years.  I 
appreciate there are many questions surrounding why the premium  increased from the 
£39.21 originally quoted.  Generally  speaking an insurer  is entitled to set the premium  in line 
with their perception  of the risks involved  which, as Ive set out above, can sometimes  differ  
from the premium originally quoted upon further  scrutiny of the applicants circumstances. 
But accepting (hypothetically) that something  did go wrong in relation  to the premium 
increasing from £39.21  to £85.84  I dont consider this to be material  to the outcome of this 
complaint in any event.  This is because it was not the policy that was eventually taken out by 
Mr and Mrs W, and because £85.84 was not the premium that was eventually paid by them,  
as these terms were subsequently  amended  and superseded by the revised terms that were 
accepted by Mr and Mrs W in March 1999. 
But in terms  of the extra premium of £22.97 for critical illness cover that was proposed and 
outlined in the letter of 26 February  1999, this appears to have been in response  to Mr Ws 
medical report, which was issued by his GP on 16 February 1999. The insurers  letter stated 
that Your mortgage protection plan application  has received very careful consideration and 
whilst we are unable  to offer our normal terms, we are pleased to offer revised terms and in 
view of the fact that we are offering you amended terms we have  enclosed  a new Key 
Features Document for your attention. 
I can see that the letter dated  26 February  1999 was correctly  addressed.  And I must take 
into account that the vast majority  of mail that is correctly addressed is safely  received by the 
recipient. And given  that Mr and Mrs W received other correspondence from the insurer  that 
was sent to the same address, I think its more likely than not that this letter was also 
received. I appreciate it could have been  overlooked  or misplaced by Mr and Mrs W, or that 
they may not remember receiving it, which wouldnt be surprising given that it was sent over 
20 years  ago. But subsequent evidence from ReAssure would also suggest that they 
discussed its contents and terms at the time with their financial advisor, as Ive seen a copy  
of an internal email  sent by K to the insurers new business department on 4 March 1999 
which states:
Please can you amend the above policy to MPP [Mortgage Protection  Plan]  with NO 
ci [critical illness cover] at regular premium of £40.03.
Ref: DRN13771424Customer has asked you to confirm,  why there was a loading put alongside the 
original policy just because of CI cover? Please  can you advise direct  as I am on 
holiday from today.
The revised terms sent on 26 February  1999 included the extra premium of £22.97, so it 
seems likely that this is what K was referring  to when  asking about the loading  put alongside  
the original policy as Ive seen nothing  else that this could likely have been in reference  to. 
Mr and Mrs W say that at no point did they ever have any such discussion with K. and nor 
did they ask her to amend the policy to mortgage  protection/life cover only.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W may have no recollection of making any such  request to K. 
But I have to take into consideration that these events  took place over 20 years ago, and 
that memories can fade over time. And there  also appears to be very little reason that K 
would have made a request to amend the policy to offer less cover for a lower premium 
unless she was asked  to by the applicants. She has also made express reference to 
Mr and Mrs W asking  the insurer to explain the additional premium. So, based on the 
evidence available, I consider its more likely than not that the revised  terms/premiums  were 
discussed with K and that she was asked  to amend the cover  to mortgage protection/life  
cover only.
Mr and Mrs W say they wouldnt have asked  K to do this as it was always their intention to 
take out critical illness cover. But even if K misunderstood any discussions she had with Mr 
and Mrs W, I think the documentation that was subsequently sent made  it clear  that the 
policy had been  amended  such that it no longer included  critical illness  cover, and which 
gave them a reasonable opportunity to change or reject this.
Following Ks request,  ReAssure sent a letter on 25 March 1999, which said:
Application  For: Mortgage  Protection with Critical Illness Cover
Following a request  from your financial advisorthe original policy  type as noted  
above did have  a small extra premium added in respect of the critical illness benefit 
on Mr Ws life. This was added following receipt of a medical  report from his GP
The letter finished by informing Mr and Mrs W that:
The policy  has been amended to a Mortgage  Protection Plan only as per [Ks] 
instructions and revised acceptance terms will follow  shortly.
Mr and Mrs W have  confirmed receiving this letter, but say that they did not think  anything 
about the policy had changed as they assumed the small extra premium to be a negligible 
amount. But I consider  the letter to be clear  that an amendment had since been  made, such 
that the policy was now a mortgage protection plan only as opposed to the original policy  
type of mortgage  protection  with critical illness cover. So I think  this ought  reasonably  to 
have alerted Mr and Mrs W to the fact that the policy no longer included critical illness cover.
In any event, revised terms for the amended policy were then sent to Mr and Mrs W on 
31 March 1999.  The policy  schedule clearly stated that the class  of policy was Mortgage 
Protection Assurance  Joint Life and did not mention critical illness cover.  But 
Mr and Mrs W submit that the documentation was misleading, and that they were led to 
believe that it was included. This is because the front page  of the policy  booklet  was titled 
Ref: DRN13771425Mortgage Protection Plan with Critical Illness. This booklet had the code Wl131  on the 
back cover,  which  they submit is relevant because the last line of the schedule states:
This Policy comprises  this Schedule  {1 Sheet} and Cover {WL131}
So they say that they believed this was confirmation  that critical illness cover was included.  I 
accept they may have  misunderstood this, and I appreciate that the policy  document does 
say mortgage  protection  plan with critical illness. But the vast majority of policy  terms and 
conditions issued by insurers are standardised documents that will often cover  all other 
optional elements of cover that are offered  by the insurer, but may not have  been  selected. 
This is made  apparent in the critical illness section of the policy booklet which  states:
7. Critical  Illness  Cover 
This section  applies  if your schedule shows that your policy includes critical illness 
cover.
The policy documentation requested that Mr and Mrs W check their cover  carefully  to ensure 
it met all of their requirements. So, given  that the schedule  did not show that the policy  
included critical illness cover I think  Mr and Mrs W ought reasonably  to have known that it 
was not included in their cover. They were  also given a 14 day cooling  off period in which 
they could have queried this or rejected the cover on this basis.
I understand that Mr and Mrs W thought the code  WL131  meant  that critical illness cover 
had been included. But given that policy  booklets  are rarely tailored to the individual, I dont 
think it was reasonable  to assume that a reference  to a code on a standardised policy  
booklet wold mean that they were covered for everything listed in the booklet   particularly if 
it was not expressly  mentioned on the policy schedule.  So I dont consider ReAssure to have 
misled Mr and Mrs W in this regard,  as the schedule does not mentioned  critical illness,  and 
the preceding  letter  sent on 26 February  1999  also stated that the policy had been amended 
to a mortgage protection plan only. 
In summary,  it appears that there was an unfortunate misunderstanding here of what  was 
included in the policy. But based on the evidence available, I dont consider it to be a 
misunderstanding that ReAssure are liable  for. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs W but, in the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair and 
reasonable to direct  ReAssure to cover a risk that was not included  in the policy,  and for 
which premiums have  not been paid.  
Finally, Mr and Mrs W have questioned why the premium  for life cover increased  from the 
£18.24 they were initially quoted in January 1999  to the £40.02  they eventually paid. Given 
the time that has passed since the policy was taken out, it isnt clear what happened  in 
between the initial quote being provided  and the premium increasing,  as there is no 
evidence available  to shed any further  light on this. It may be, for example, that the total sum 
assured was increased. But whatever  the reason, Mr and Mrs W still had the terms of cover 
and the total cost of the policy set out clearly in the policy  documentation  sent to them  on 
31 March 1999.  They had a 14-day cooling off period in which  to check, question and 
ultimately reject any elements of the cover they were not happy with, and could have 
sourced alternative  cover  with another provider if they remained unhappy with the final terms 
and price. So I do not consider this point to have any bearing on the outcome of Mr and Mrs 
Ws complaint either.
Ref: DRN13771426my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1377142