K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) unfairly declined their mobile phone  
insurance claim.
background
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs S took out a gadget  insurance policy to cover a mobile  phone  they 
bought for their son. In December 2018  the phone was stolen from their sons  school bag 
when it was left in a changing room during a P.E. lesson. So, Mr and Mrs S put in a claim in 
with Zenith  to replace the stolen phone.
Zenith denied the claim on the basis that the circumstances of the theft fell into the 
exclusions of the policy. It said this was because the school bag was unattended  at the time 
of the theft and there was no sign of forced  entry into the schools changing  room.  
Mr and Mrs S were  not happy  with the response from Zenith, so they brought the complaint 
to our service. One of our investigators  looked into this complaint and felt that Zenith had 
unfairly denied  Mr and Mrs Ss claim. The investigator recognised that the terms and 
conditions excluded claims for gadgets which had been stolen from outside the house and 
there was no sign of forced entry. However,  she felt that this was not fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint, so she upheld  the complaint  and asked Zenith to honour  
Mr and Mrs Ss claim. 
Zennith didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed  to me 
for a final decision.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and I think this complaint should  be upheld. 
The policy provides cover in the event that the phone is accidently  damaged,  lost or stolen. 
However, the policy then significantly restricts the cover in relation to theft by stating that it 
will not be covered  if theft occurs where the mobile phone  has been left unattended  when it 
is away from your home or from any premises unless the theft involves force  in gaining 
entry to or exit from the building  or premises.
Essentially therefore  Zenith says that the phone is only covered if it is on your person at all 
times unless  you are at home. In addition, it also seems that there must be evidence of a 
break in if you phone is not on you at the time of the theft. 
Ive thought about these  exclusions and whether its fair to apply them  in this case. 
The evidence provided shows  the phone was left unattended away from home  at the time it 
was stolen. But Ive also considered the circumstances. Mr and Mrs S son was participating 
in a P.E. lesson, so it wouldnt  have been  practical  for him to have his phone  on him during 
this time. The phone was kept in his bag along  with all the other  belongings of his 
classmates. But I have not seen  any evidence that there were any lockers available or any 
safer options  to store their belongings. And considering the environment  I think it was 
Ref: DRN16752842reasonable for Mr and Mrs Ss son to believe his belongings would be safe in the schools 
changing room.  I also dont think it wouldve been  practical for the phone to be left at home 
as the purpose  of the device is for Mr and Mrs S son to get in contact with them while  he is 
away from the home.   
The policy states  that there must  involve force in gaining entry or exit to the building  or 
premises.  The courts have decided that force need  not involve the use of physical  violence;  
for example, simply turning a handle or opening a shut door may be considered  as forcible  
entry. On a fair and reasonable  interpretation of the policy terms and conditions as a whole, I 
consider that the act of an unidentified thief entering the school changing  rooms  and 
removing the phone  from his bag (and several  other  phones) would constitute a using force  
in gaining entry.
I have also considered if the requirement to take reasonable precautions under the policy 
terms was met. Mr and Mrs S have  provided testimony that the phone  was in their sons 
blazer pocket and put into his school bag, which was then left in the school changing room. It 
was not left in sight or in an area open  to the general public. I am not satisfied  that leaving 
the phone  concealed in room such as this amounts to lack of reasonable precautions 
generally and therefore I do not think Zenith  can deny the claim on this basis either. 
I am therefore in agreement with the investigator, and I think it is fair and reasonable to ask 
Zenith to cover  the claim in these circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think this complaint  should  be upheld  and Zenith  Insurance  
plc honour Mr and Mrs Ss claim. 
If this is by way of cash settlement, then interest  8% simple per annum from the date of 
claim to the date of the final settlement should be added.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 December  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1675284