K821x#15complaint
Ms R has complained to Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) about the way its handled  a 
claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
Ms R has had problems with her solar  panels  which were paid for using her Tesco  credit 
card.
I issued my provisional decision on the complaint  in March 2020.  A  copy of that decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.   In summary, I upheld  the complaint and set 
out what Tescos should do to put things right.
Ms R accepted the decision.  
Tesco responded stating that it accepted  my findings to an extent, but querying  the need  to 
cover costs for the damage to Ms Rs roof.  In particular, it said that there is no evidence  to 
show the solar panel installation  caused  damage and created a leaky Velux  window.
So, Ive considered all additional comments in making my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the same 
conclusion and uphold  the complaint.
I understand the comments made  by Tesco in relation to the damage  to Ms Rs roof and the 
leaky Velux window.   In my provisional  decision I stated that fair compensation would include 
Tesco Arranging for and paying for the repair to any roof damage caused by the installation  
of the system.  So  Ive considered the window specifically.
There have been  two separate inspections carried out of the solar  panels and their 
installation.  In one report, it states Ms R explained that the roof had been  leaking around 
the velux and the panels are located very close to this so that would need accessing  and 
fixing before  any other work commences.   The report also notes the poor fit and installation  
of the panels.
In the other report (provided  by the company that came and switched off the system  when 
first inspected) it states:
The roof is leaking around the Velux window and there are extra rails on the roof without 
visible clamps and fixings in places where  they shouldnt be.  Given the shockingly bad 
install, it is suspected  that the roof has been compromised and it is highly recommended  that 
the roof is inspected  and rectified  by a competent roofing firm after the solar  array has been 
removed.
Given the extent  of the poor installation I think its reasonable to conclude  that on balance 
the roof damage and leaky window were  caused  as a result  of the solar panels. Tesco may 
arrange and pay for an independent inspection by a roofing firm to confirm  what  damage 
exists and whether  it was caused by the solar panel  installation.  But in the absence of such 
Ref: DRN16124062an inspection, it should put things right on the basis that the damage  and leak has resulted 
from the solar panel issues.
fair compensation
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I consider it fair and 
reasonable to uphold  Ms Rs complaint.  Tesco is responsible for the breach of contract 
under s.75 and so should put things right by paying the fair compensation below:
Arranging and paying  for the removal of the existing solar panel system  and 
installation of a replacement system.
Reimbursing Ms R for the specialist  inspections carried  out.
Arranging for and paying for the repair to any roof damage  caused by the installation 
of the system.
Paying Ms R the difference between the cost of her actual energy bills and what  they 
would have been if the system had been operating  properly.
Paying Ms R a sum to reflect the total of what her total projected FiT payments would 
have been, less any benefits  Ms R is likely  to receive from the scheme replacing the 
FiT scheme.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Rs complaint, and I direct  Tesco  Personal Finance  Plc 
to put things right as set out in the fair compensation above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16124063COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms R has complained to Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) about  the way it handled a claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
In 2014 Ms R purchased  a solar panel system which was supplied and installed by a company  called 
Greener Home Improvements (the supplier).   The system cost a total of £5,800 which she paid in 
two instalments using her Tesco credit card.
In late 2017 the system stopped working,  but as the supplier that sold the system was no longer 
trading, Ms R contacted  Tesco.  Because she had paid for the system using finance provided by 
Tesco, under s.75 its responsible for any misrepresentation or breach of contract  to the same extent 
as the supplier.
Ms R had her solar panels inspected  by two specialist  firms, both of which found the panels hadnt 
been correctly installed and identified potential damage to the roof.  Tesco  agreed to cover the 
inspection costs and for a replacement system.  But as a new system  would be installed, it said it 
would deduct the £900 Ms R had received from Feed-in-Tariff (FiT) payments up to the point the 
system stopped working.
Ms R said the offer was unfair as Tesco had accepted there was a breach of contract, but the offer 
didnt put her in the position she would  have  been  in were it not for that breach of contract.  Ms R 
referred her complaint to this Service asking Tesco  to pay for:
the cost of removing the existing solar  panels;
the cost of a new, replacement installation;
the cost of repairing  the damage  caused to her property  when the panels were installed;
the increased cost of her energy  bills from the point her panels stopped working  until the time 
the new installation  is functional;  and
the FiT payments she had missed  out on as a result of the system having  stopped working.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Rs concerns and recommended the complaint be upheld.   In 
summary, she agreed that Tesco should pay the amounts Ms R is claiming  as that they were  
foreseeable consequential  losses  as a result of the breach of contract.   But she also agreed it was 
reasonable for Tesco to deduct the FiT payments, stating  that a new installation  would give rise to a 
new entitlement to FiT payments for 20 years.
Tesco acknowledged the investigators assessment, and despite stating  a response would  be 
provided a number  of times over a 12 month period,  no comments were received.
Ms R disagreed with the investigators conclusions about entitlement to FiT payments.  She provided 
evidence to confirm that the FiT scheme ceased to exist for new solar panel installations after 1 April 
2019.  This evidence confirmed  that removal  of the existing system and installation of a replacement 
system would  be considered  and new installation  and so not eligible for FiT payments.  Instead, Ms R 
was informed an alternative  scheme would be put in place.
As no agreement could  be reached, the matter has now been referred  to me to review afresh and to 
make a decision  on Ms Rs complaint.
Ref: DRN16124064my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I largely agree  with the investigators  conclusions  
and consider the complaint  should be upheld  but Im recommending different compensation  to 
reflect the changes to FiT payments.
Tesco has accepted that the system is faulty and theres been a breach  of contract. It has already 
made an offer to replace  the system  as a result of Ms Rs s.75 claim.  So the key consideration for me 
to review, has been whether  Tesco has acted  in a fair and reasonable manner  in how is suggests  to 
put things right.
Ms R wants the solar  panel system to operate correctly  as its clear she values the energy savings 
and FiT payments  provided by the system.  The inspection reports  obtained  by Ms R both confirmed 
the system hadnt been correctly  installed  and had caused damage  to the roof of her property.  So I 
consider it fair that Tesco  has offered to pay for the removal and replacement of the system.
However, Ive considered the overall position Ms R would  have been in were it not for the breach  of 
contract, including the resultant consequential losses.
The specialist reports both confirmed that the panel  installation had caused damage to Ms Rs 
property and so Im also certain that the cost of rectifying that damage should  be included in the 
settlement.
So the remaining issues for me to decide relate to the losses Ms R is claiming for the additional 
energy bills costs  shes incurred, and the loss of benefits from the FiT scheme.  Had the system been 
installed correctly and working to a satisfactory standard Ms R would have been paying a lower bill to 
reflect the performance  of the system.  So  Tesco should also calculate the difference  between  what  
Ms R has paid for her electricity and what it would have been had the panels been in operation  and 
pay the difference to Ms R.
When Tesco made its offer to Ms R it stated  that the £900 FiT payments she received should be 
deducted as the replacement  system would  qualify for a new term of FiT payments  over the next 20 
years.  We now know  this to no longer  be correct,  as the FiT scheme has been discontinued.  Ms R 
has referred to an alternative scheme being introduced that a new replacement system may be 
eligible for based upon  communications  shes had with her energy  supplier.  Although no further 
details have been provided in relation to this, I consider it likely that the replacement scheme is the 
Smart Export Guarantee  scheme (SEG) which came into operation from 1 January 2020.
Had the original system operated as it should, Ms R would  remain part of the FIT scheme  for the 
balance of 20 years.  As that is no longer  going to be possible in relation to a replacement solar panel 
system Ive thought  about what is a fair alternative.  Its important that I explain  there is no exact 
science to how Ms R should be compensated.  There are a number of possibilities but Ive set out 
what I consider  to be fair overall.
Tesco should calculate the projected benefits Ms R would have received in total from the FiT scheme, 
and pay her that sum as a lump now, but less any FiT benefits she has already received, and less the 
projected benefits a newly installed system would be likely  to receive under  the replacement scheme.
Ive considered whether  Ms R would  be advantaged by receiving what  would have been  a future 
benefits as a lump sum now,  but for the sake of certainty and to bring finality to the complaint I 
consider it reasonable.   I contemplated making an allowance to reduce this payment to offset  any 
potential benefit, but decided it would only further  complicate the redress calculation and so isnt 
necessary.
Ref: DRN16124065summary
For the reasons  set out above I consider  it fair and reasonable to uphold Ms Rs complaint.   Tesco  is 
responsible for the breach  of contract under s.75 and so should put things right by paying the fair 
compensation below:
Arranging and paying for the removal of the existing  solar panel system  and installation of a 
replacement system.
Reimbursing  Ms R for the specialist  inspections carried out.
Arranging for and paying for the repair to any roof damage caused  by the installation  of the 
system.
Paying to Ms R the difference between the cost of her actual energy bills and what they would  
have been if the system had been  operating properly.
Pay to Ms R a sum to reflect the total of what  her total projected FiT payments would have 
been, less any benefits  Ms R is likely to receive  from the scheme  replacing the FiT scheme.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Ms Rs complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC and 
direct it to pay the fair compensation set out above.
Ref: DRN1612406