K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that Ferratum UK Ltd irresponsibly lent to her.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued on 
13th February 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so 
I wont repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be partially upheld 
and what Ferratum needed to do to put things right. I invited both parties  to let me have any 
further comments and evidence. 
Mrs W responded on 19th February 2020  and had no further comments  to make relating to 
her complaint. 
Ferratum responded  on 20th February  2020 to say it would accept my decision and 
calculated what Mrs W should receive in compensation  in line with my recommendations..
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have nothing  further to add and I have no new evidence  to consider.
So having  considered everything  Ive received in relation to this complaint, both before and 
after issuing my provisional decision, I am not persuaded to change those initial conclusions. 
Ferratum now needs to put things right with regards  to loan 4. 
putting things right
Ferratum should:
refund all interest  and charges Mrs W paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
take off any negative information  recorded regarding loan 4 on Mrs Ws credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest.  Ferratum  
must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN16986402my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and direct Ferratum UK Ltd to put things 
right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16986403EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mrs W says Ferratum UK Limited  (Ferratum) lent to her irresponsibly.  
background
This complaint is about  four payday loans Ferratum provided to Mrs W between  July 2017 and 
November 2017. Details are given below:
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedAmount 
repaidnumber of 
monthly 
repaymentsdate ended
1 12/07/2017 £300 £427.00 1 07/09/2017
2 09/09/2017 £250 £264.00 1 16/09/2017
3 17/09/2017 £400 £544.00 1 01/11/2017
4 01/11/2017 £400 £712.40 4 29/05/2018
When Mrs W complained to Ferratum that it had lent the money to her irresponsibly,  it disagreed  with 
her. Although it did made an offer of £200  as a gesture of goodwill. This offer hasnt been accepted by 
Mrs W and instead she asked our service to look into her complaint.
Our adjudicator initially  didnt  uphold  Mrs Ws complaint but then in a second letter  changed  his view 
and partially  upheld it. He thought that Ferratum shouldnt  have approved loans 3 and 4. Ferratum  
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so as the parties do not agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to make  a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Ferratum needed to take reasonable  steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mrs W could  repay  the loans 
in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably  have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to meet  a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been  given  loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN16986404And the loan payments  being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow  this is the 
case. The industry regulator  defines  sustainable  as being  without undue  difficulties and in particular the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  
as well as without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make  their repayments 
sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold Mrs Ws complaint in part and have 
explained why below.
Ferratum asked Mrs W for information about her income  and it carried out credit checks. It says it 
used this information  to assess whether the loans were affordable for her.
For loans 1 and 2, given the amounts lent, what  was apparent about  Mrs Ws circumstances at the 
time and her relatively short borrowing history with Ferratum, I dont think  it wouldve  been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt anything  in the information Mrs W provided or the information Ferratum  
shouldve been aware of (including the credit  search results), which meant it wouldve  been 
proportionate to start verifying what Mrs W was saying.
Mrs W asked  for loan 3 a day after repaying  her previous loan. The amount she was asking for had 
increased also. I think by this stage Ferratum should have been carrying  out further checks and 
finding out more about Mrs Ws wider financial circumstances. I have been able to see Mrs Ws credit  
file and although there are some defaulted accounts shown these are from around 2015, a couple of 
years before she approached Ferratum for credit. She did have two outstanding short  term loans at 
the time she approached it for her third loan but I think if Ferratum had seen this information it would  
have shown it that Mrs W could  have  still afforded the loan and that she would have  been able to 
sustainably make  the repayments. Mrs W also hasnt been able to provide any bank statements from 
this time,  and so I havent  been  able to look into whether she had any other wider financial issues that 
further checks  may have uncovered. So I cant say based on what I have in front of me, that further 
checks would have shown  that the repayments for loan 3 would have been unsustainable.
But by loan 4, I think its reasonable to say that Mrs W was, more likely than not, having  longer term 
problems repaying her loans. And Ferratum shouldve  been aware  of this. She had taken out three 
short term loans in quick succession with small breaks in between. Mrs W had asked for loan 2, only 
2 days after she had repaid  loan 2, loan 3 only a day after she had repaid loan 2 and was now asking  
for loan 4 on the same  day she had repaid  loan 3. So a pattern of dependency had emerged  in 
respect of her lending. 
Mrs W took out loan 4 on 1st November  2017 and at this stage  Ferratum had seen her making 
repayments to it for around 4 months.  The amounts she was paying  was for a similar  amount and I 
think it would have become  apparent based on what I have already concluded that she would have 
been struggling to repay the amount owed. So I dont think  it was reasonable for Ferratum to have 
assumed that Mrs W would be in a position to make further  repayments without  it causing her 
problems. So I dont think it shouldve approved loan 4.
Ref: DRN1698640