K821x#15complaint
Mrs Gs complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) concerns a refusal to 
cover a personal injury  claim under  a legal expenses insurance policy.
Mrs G is represented by Mr W.
background
The parties are aware of the detailed background to the issues  that led to this complaint. I 
set out a summary in a provisional  decision as follows:
Mrs G made  a claim to RSA for cover to pursue  a personal injury claim for exacerbation of 
chronic migraine. But RSA said this wasnt a bodily  injury  and as such  not covered by the 
policy. RSA had offered  a review if Mrs G provided  medical evidence  that what  she wanted  
to claim for was a bodily injury but Mrs G had failed to provide any medical  evidence  to date.
A second part to Mrs Gs complaint to us is for personal injury  arising  from an insurance 
company failing to comply  with a direction from an ombudsmans final decision in 2015.  RSA 
said the claim was excluded by the policy as it was a dispute about the way an insurance 
claim should be settled.  But Mrs G says this isnt correct as her claim for personal injury  
arises from the insurers failure  to comply with the ombudsmans decision and not an 
insurance claim.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and thought it should be upheld. He 
considered the exacerbation  of Mrs Gs migraines  could be considered  bodily injury as the 
symptoms of the migraines could have  physical presentation (vomiting). And the policy  said 
it covered under personal injury  the cost of taking legal proceedings as a result of an event 
which causes bodily  injury. So, the investigator agreed that if Mrs G could provide RSA with 
medical evidence  it should reconsider the claim.  
On the second  part of Mrs Gs complaint the investigator said the issue  was not about the 
payment or settlement  of the claim, but that the insurance company did not act on the 
ombudsmans final decision. Mrs Gs claim related to the insurance company not doing what  
an ombudsman has directed and so RSA should  cover that. The investigator didnt think  the 
claim fell into the exclusion of being  a dispute about the amount an insurance  company 
should pay to settle an insurance  claim or the way the claim should be settled.
I explained my provisional findings as follows:
The way Ill approach my determination is to look at the two aspects of Mrs Gs complaint.
exacerbation of chronic migraine
Mrs G wants legal assistance  to pursue a claim for this as a personal  injury. The policy 
terms and conditions set out what is covered under this as follows;
The cost of you taking legal proceedings against  another person or organisation as a result 
of an event which causes  your death, or bodily injury.
RSAs position  is that while migraines may result in things  like vomiting  and nausea  the 
underlying condition is the migraine  and not a bodily injury. 
Ref: DRN13859102The issue  here is that Mrs Gs claim is for exacerbation  of migraine and not causing 
migraines. The NHS website states  migraine  is a common health condition  and is usually a 
moderate or severe headache. And it lists a number of symptoms including  nausea  and 
vomiting. 
On the information provided to date it seems  reasonable for RSA to have concluded that 
Mrs Gs claim for exacerbation  of migraine is not a bodily injury as a result of an event. That 
being the case, RSA has said it will review the matter if Mrs G can provide  medical  evidence  
that she suffered  a bodily  injury. And if RSA confirms the matter can be considered under 
the personal injury  section  it will refund the cost of obtaining that evidence to Mrs G. In 
principle Im satisfied this is fair but with the caveat that if Mrs G presents medical evidence 
that supports  her having a bodily  injury then RSA must  obtain  a legal opinion as to the 
prospects of success.  I take it that this is what RSA means when  it talks about confirming the 
matter can be considered under the personal injury section.
claim against the insurance company  for personal  injury as a result of not complying with the 
previous ombudsmans decision
Under the policy there is no cover for a dispute about either the amount an insurance  
company should  pay to settle an insurance  claim or the way a claim should  be settled. 
RSAs position  is that the ombudsmans decision was a direction on what the insurer needed  
to do to settle an insurance  claim,  and so is caught  by the exclusion. 
It seems  to me the first step that Mrs G needs  to satisfy is that the insurance company has 
failed to comply with the ombudsmans decision.  That is not a matter for us to determine  but 
an issue of enforcement in the courts. If the insurance company has complied with that 
decision then it seems  unlikely a claim such as Mrs Gs arises. But as I say, the first issue  
Mrs G needs to satisfy is that the insurance  company  has not complied  with the 
ombudsmans final decision. 
The issue  Mrs G seeks cover for is to pursue an action  against the insurer  for personal injury  
as a consequence of not complying with an ombudsmans final decision. That in my view is 
distinct from an insurance claim albeit I accept the decision  was about an insurance claim. 
Mrs G isnt seeking challenge the amount or way an insurance claim was settled  but rather 
claim personal injury compensation allegedly arising  from non-compliance with a legally 
binding decision (as Mrs G had accepted  the outcome in that decision). 
So, taking everything  into account on this second  part of Mrs Gs complaint Im not satisfied 
that its fair and reasonable for RSA to rely on the exclusion. But as I said earlier  it seems  to 
me that Mrs G will bear the burden of demonstrating that the insurance company failed to 
comply with the ombudsmans final decision.  That is an issue  of enforcement  for the courts 
to decide and not this service. 
I invited the parties  to provide any further information or reply  and both RSA and Mrs G have 
done so.
Ref: DRN13859103replies to my provisional  decision
Mrs Gs representative sent a detailed reply with further information.  In summary, he says 
Mrs Gs claim is that the insurance  company exacerbated a pre-existing illness  of chronic  
migraine. In doing so, it has caused  bodily injury arising from the increase in severity and 
frequency of a number of symptoms. He states the bodily  injury is the impairment  and loss of 
bodily function  by virtue of the symptoms, which arise from exacerbation. The representative  
refers to a UK Supreme  Court case1 in support of his position.
Its also put forward on Mrs Gs behalf that the claim is no longer as a result of the insurance  
company not complying  with the previous ombudsmans  final decision but a claim against it 
and a number  of other parties. The representative says he thought we were determining  the 
complaint against  RSAs  refusal to accept  the claims against  all of the parties appointed by 
the insurer. And the various acts involved include non-disclosure, loss of documents  and 
obfuscation between  March 2016 and April 2018 resulting in personal injury and loss to 
Mrs G. Other  acts are mentioned but its not necessary for me to detail these  specifically in 
this decision. In concluding his reply the representative suggests a form of wording for my 
final decision  that would be acceptable  to Mrs G.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, as well as the parties  replies, to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
Im not persuaded to reach a different outcome.
Whats apparent from Mrs Gs representative  is that in the time since he brought  the 
complaint to us (complaint  form dated 29 July 2018) matters have developed. Im aware that 
were dealing with a second complaint from Mrs G under a separate reference.  And Im also 
aware that its not just the insurance company that Mrs G has potential  actions against. 
The complaint as originally brought by Mrs G succinctly sets out two issues;  exacerbation of 
migraine being  a bodily injury; and personal injury arising from the actions of an insurer who 
1 Dryden and others  v Johnson  Matthey  Plc [2019] UKSC 18RSA said that with respect  to Mrs Gs claim personal injury it can further  consider  this on 
receipt of medical  evidence supporting  that she suffered a bodily injury.  And it offered to 
refund the cost of obtaining  such evidence should  it be supportive. As with most legal 
expenses insurance,  a further  assessment  would  be required to ensure that all remaining 
policy terms and conditions are met. The policy does not only require  a claim to have 
reasonable prospects of success but also requires that a claim is proportionate to pursue 
taking into account  estimated  costs and the claims value.  While it would normally  provide a 
solicitor with a Case Analysis  Form  to return completed before determining  whether 
indemnity is available on a claim, RSA confirmed that it would  fund this assessment cost 
regardless of the assessment  outcome.  
On the issue of the matter for not adhering to the a decision made by an ombudsman, RSA 
stood by its view that the dispute relates to the way in which  the insurer  has chosen not to 
adhere to instructions by an ombudsman in settling  the insureds claim causing it to be 
statute barred. RSA maintains the following exclusion applies: 
8. A dispute about  either the amount an insurance company should pay to settle an 
insurance claim or the way a claim should be settled.
Ref: DRN13859104failed to comply with the direction of the ombudsman. These have been the issues  weve 
investigated. 
In order for Mrs G to pursue an action for personal injury arising from the insurers  alleged  
failure to comply with an ombudsmans  direction,  among other things  that would need to be 
demonstrated, she needs to show that the insurer failed to comply with the ombudsmans 
direction. As I stated in my provisional  decision this is not a matter for us to determine  but an 
issue of enforcement in the courts. If the insurance company has complied with that decision 
then it seems unlikely a claim such as Mrs Gs arises. But as I say, the first issue  Mrs G 
needs to satisfy is that the insurance  company  has not complied with the ombudsmans final 
decision. So my decision on this aspect  remains unchanged.
RSA maintains that this would be caught by an exclusion as the dispute  relates  to the way in 
which the insurer has chosen not to adhere to instructions by an ombudsman  in settling the 
insureds claim. The exclusion says; 
8. A dispute about  either the amount an insurance company should pay to settle an 
insurance claim or the way a claim should be settled.
 
Having considered the policy wording  again my view is unchanged.  There is no qualifying  or 
conditional language expressed that relates  to the exclusion. The wording  expresses two 
situations; a dispute about the amount an insurance  company should pay to settle an 
insurance claim; and a dispute about the way a claim  should be settled. The issue though is 
about the (alleged) failure of an insurance company to comply  with an ombudsmans  final 
decision. So I remain satisfied that the exclusion does  not apply in this case. 
It might be that this restricts any future litigation in so far as RSA would only need  to look at 
what, if any, personal injury was caused  by the failure to comply. And of course this would 
need to be assessed for reasonable prospects should Mrs G demonstrate  that the insurance 
company has failed to comply with the ombudsmans final decision.  
This leaves  the issue of exacerbation  of migraine, which  Mrs G argues is bodily injury and 
covered by the policy. In the court case Mrs G refers to its apparent that the main  issue  to 
be determined was whether the appellants had suffered actionable personal injury on which  
they can found claims for negligence/breach  of statutory duty. The issue  of exacerbation is 
distinguishable from the case that Mrs G refers to as the court  was dealing with a set of facts 
very different to hers.  The court  was looking at a situation where  the appellants had suffered 
a physiological change  to their bodies  through the defendants negligence. Mrs Gs case  is 
about exacerbation rather than a physiological change as apparent in the court case.  And 
there were further issues for the court  as to whether there was an actionable personal injury.
Mrs G has suffered migraines from a very young age. A medical report  in 2012 says she was 
suffering a chronic daily headache with around  sixteen days  of "migrainous headache" per 
month. Its very clear  that Mrs G has suffered severe symptoms during her near lifelong 
condition. 
Due to these reasons  Im not persuaded that Mrs G has demonstrated her alleged  
exacerbation of migraine  is a bodily injury such that I am satisfied it would be fair to require 
RSA to pursue  this under her policy as a bodily injury. 
Mrs Gs representative has asked me to direct  what format  Mrs G should provide  this 
evidence. Where I uphold  a case I can make a direction or money award against the 
Ref: DRN13859105respondent firm, in this case RSA.  I cant though  make a direction against the complainant, 
here Mrs G. 
RSAs offer has been, and remains, that if Mrs G provides medical  evidence  which  confirms  
her psychological  injury has resulted in a bodily  injury it will further consider the claim.  And if 
the evidence is supportive then RSA will refund the cost of Mrs G obtaining  that report. It 
seems to me that any medical evidence would at least need to be from someone qualified  
and entitled to make such opinion; and even better (albeit not a requirement) if that person 
has first-hand knowledge of Mrs Gs history, particularly  the period of the alleged 
exacerbation. For the avoidance of doubt this is not a direction to Mrs G but an attempt to be 
helpful to both parties.
As stated in my provisional decision if Mrs G presents medical evidence that supports her 
having a bodily injury then RSA must  obtain  a legal opinion as to the prospects of success. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  I take it that this is what RSA means when it talks about 
confirming the matter can be considered under the personal injury section. But for the 
avoidance of doubt, while this was a caveat in my provisional decision I will make  this a 
direction to RSA.  The legal  opinion  on reasonable prospects will no doubt address, among 
other things,  causation and whether in law the exacerbation of migraine  is, on balance, likely  
to succeed as a bodily injury. But this is the next step should Mrs G be able to present 
medical evidence  in the first place.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc as follows;
RSA must not rely on general exclusion  8 for the second part of Mrs Gs complaint.
RSA must obtain a legal opinion as to the prospects of success if Mrs G presents 
medical evidence  from someone  qualified and entitled to make  such  opinion  that 
supports her exacerbation of chronic  migraine being  a bodily injury.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1385910