K820x#14complaint
Mr F had a current  account with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax), and made use of 
other financial services offered by Halifax. He complains that, without justification, Halifax 
closed his accounts and ended its relationship with him in autumn 2018.
background
Mr F said:
He visited a Halifax branch in order  to make an urgent financial transaction
The member of staff with whom he tried to initiate this transaction provided very poor 
service to him  which included  loudly arguing  with him, and using inappropriate 
language
Halifax wrote to him shortly  afterwards, saying that it was ending its relationship with 
him, because of his abusive behaviour during  the above visit to one its branches
Halifax was not giving  him enough  time to transfer his current account and other 
products to different providers, without incurring  financial penalties  
He complained to Halifax, saying  
othe incident that occurred during his visit was caused by the branch staff 
member (and not by him) 
othe accusation  it had made about his behaviour was untrue and defamatory
Halifax did not uphold  his complaint, which he then referred  to us
Halifax told us:
Several staff members at the branch  complained to their managers about  Mr Fs 
behaviour during  his visit, as a result  of which it decided that his current account 
should be closed  without the normal two months notice
The terms and conditions of Mr Fs account allow  it to close  his account without 
notice, if he acted  in an abusive,  threatening or violent way
Mr F was given  one months  notice,  from the date of his visit
Mr F also received a refund of little under  £350,  for a withdrawal penalty applied  
during the closure  of one of his accounts  
Our investigator did not think the complaint should  be upheld. She understood why Mr F was 
upset that his current account had been closed, and she recognised that he had been 
inconvenienced by having to transfer  products to different providers. 
But our investigator said that, when  Halifax  closed  Mr Fs current  account, it had acted within  
the accounts terms and conditions. In these circumstances,  she did not feel that Halifax  had 
acted inappropriately.
Mr F disagreed with our investigator, saying there  was no evidence to suggest  that he was 
threatening and violent,  and that such allegations  were libellous. And so this complaint  was 
referred for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN17191242On the one hand, Mr F acknowledges  that an incident occurred during his visit to the Halifax 
branch. He also acknowledges that he raised his voice  in response to the staff member who 
was loudly arguing with him, and using inappropriate language. But he says that he was in 
no way violent or threatening, and that the incident  was caused by the branch staff member 
(and not by him).
On the other hand, Halifax received written statements from several members of the 
branchs staff, which together suggest  that he lost his temper,  and that his behaviour was 
intimidating. 
As well as reviewing the documentary evidence, I have listened to recordings of several 
phone conversations relating to this complaint, made by Halifax  and Mr L. Mr L consistently  
argues that he acted  reasonably and proportionately during the incident. I accept this is how 
he feels, but his perception contrasts  significantly with that of the branch staff members.
 
I have to decide whether or not Halifaxs response  to this situation was wrong  or 
disproportionate, when  faced with the evidence of its branch staff members.  In these 
circumstances, and on balance, I am unable to find that Halifax acted unfairly or 
unreasonably  which means  I have come to the same conclusion  as our investigator,  for 
similar reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019. 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1719124