K820x#14complaint
Ms Hs complaint against The Co-operative Bank  Plc (the Co-op) is that it declined her 
section 75 claim under  the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
In April 2018, Ms H made a hotel booking for October that year.  She requested  a non-
smoking room, and was advised that all the rooms in the hotel were non-smoking.
When she arrived at the hotel, she felt it was smoky, and raised her concern with 
management. She was assured that all the hotel rooms were non-smoking, and that the 
smoke she noticed was coming from outside,  which wouldnt be a problem if she kept the 
windows closed.
Ms H says that the smokiness meant she didnt have a restful  night, so she cut short her 
stay and checked out of the hotel  early  the next day. In doing so she was charged for her 
second nights  stay (due to the 24-hour  cancellation  policy). Instead of this being the rate 
shed originally booked  125 Euros (it was cheaper because it was more than one night), she 
was charged 140 Euros. Ms H says she paid this under duress. 
Ms H complained to the Co-op, asking it to raise a section 75 complaint to refund her money 
 on the basis  that the hotel booking had been mis-described in respect that the room  was 
said to be non-smoking. The Co-op  said it couldnt  raise the claim as it didnt believe there 
had been any misdescription.  It said it was a matter of fact that the hotel room  she was given 
was a non-smoking  room, and that the hotel proprietor, and indeed the Co-op, couldnt be 
held responsible for smoke coming  in from outside  the property.
The Co-op did accept  that it delayed in providing  its final response to Ms H, so paid her £50 
and apologised  for this. Also, as a goodwlll gesture,  it refunded  her the 15 Euros that shed 
had to pay the hotel over the sum shed agreed to per night when she made  her booking.
But Ms H didnt think this was enough,  and still wanted a refund of the 125 Euros shed paid 
to the hotel. She said that although  the hotel management told her the smoke was coming in 
from outside, it was actually coming in from an adjacent  property  on the same floor, and via 
the ventilation  system.
So she brought her complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that the Co-op had already  dealt  with 
Ms Hs complaint fairly,  and didnt think it needed to do any more. This was on the basis  that 
he didnt think any misrepresentation could be proved for a section 75 claim to succeed. 
Ms H still disagreed, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator.  I dont think the Co-ops made a 
mistake, or treated  Ms H unfairly  here such that I could uphold  her complaint.
Ref: DRN18057222I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms H. Her strength of feeling about her 
section 75 claim is clear.  And Im sorry she didnt get the experience she was hoping for at 
the hotel she booked.  
However, for me to ask the Co-op  to refund her the 125 Euros  now, Id have to be satisfied 
that it had made a mistake in how it handled  her section 75 claim.  And I havent  been.
As Ms Hs aware, once we know a transactions eligible for section 75 protection  (which  we 
know Ms Hs was), it must then be shown that either  a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation took place, such that a refund  is the required remedy.  
Ive considered both these heads of claim, and Im not persuaded what happened  to Ms H 
satisfies either of them  evidentially. 
Ms H booked a non-smoking room, and a non-smoking room is what she received.  Its of 
course a pity that she still felt there  was a smokiness in the hotel, but Im satisfied this was 
outside the control of the hotel itself. So as I think she got the type of room shed paid for, 
there was no breach  of contract. 
Insofar as misrepresentation is concerned, again Im not convinced  that this can be shown. 
The hotel was advertised with non-smoking rooms,  and theres been no suggestion  that Ms 
Hs room had been, or was being,  smoked in. While I can see the point Ms H is trying to 
make in misrepresentation,  the hotel being  smoky  which  in any event is subjective  isnt 
the same  as concluding  that she wasnt given the non-smoking room which induced her to 
make the booking. And whether the smokiness  she perceived was due to smokers outside  
the hotel, or in a building adjacent to it, doesnt change this.
For these reasons, I cant say the Co-ops  treated Ms H unfairly. Im pleased to see the 
redress its already provided, and I wont be asking it to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1805722