K820x#14complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined a home insurance claim she 
made for damage to the roof of her property above  a dormer window, and internal damage 
to the ceiling below it.
background
 
Mrs R made  a claim to AXA about damage to her roof which she said was caused by 
extreme weather. She said there were two prolonged rainstorms  in her area on 10 and 12 
November 2018  and that the extreme weather had caused the flat roof above the dormer 
window to cave in. 
AXA declined Mrs R claim.  It said based  on weather reports  from the nearest weather  station  
no storm had occurred.  It also said there was evidence of pre-existing damage to the roof 
and evidence of previous  repairs.
Mrs R brought her complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. She thought  AXAs decision to decline  the claim  was reasonable as the 
evidence available  suggested that storm conditions  as defined  by Mrs Rs policy   hadnt 
been met. She considered  whether  the claim should be covered under Mrs Rs accidental  
damage cover. But she felt the evidence suggested the damage was more  likely caused by 
wear and tear which is excluded.
Mrs R provided  an alternative weather report,  from an independent weather station closer to 
where she lives, which  indicated that storm conditions had occurred.  Our investigator 
considered this, but it didnt change her view that AXA had fairly declined the claim. She 
accepted that storm conditions  had occurred, but based on the expert  report  she didnt  think  
that storm conditions  were the main/dominant cause of the damage.
Based on the new report AXA also accepted that storm conditions had occurred. But it 
maintained that the claim should  be declined as the damage wasnt  consistent with damage 
caused by a storm. It said the roof had exceeded  its 10 to 15 year lifespan and the damage 
was likely caused due to lack of maintenance and wear and tear.
Because no agreement has been reached, the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mrs R that Ive thought very carefully about everything shes  said and the 
information provided. But having  done  so, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why in more  detail.
The issue  I need to decide is whether AXA is entitled to decline Mrs Rs claim under the 
policy and what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
Ref: DRN19297922Damage caused  by storm is covered  by the policy, so the first issue  to determine is whether  
there was a storm. AXAs policy mentions rainfall  needs to exceed 25mm  in an hour to meet  
the policy definition  of storm. Mrs R has supplied a weather report from a station closer to 
her home than that relied  on by AXA which shows rainfall exceeded  25mm  for a period of 
around eight hours on 10 November  2019. As such, I am satisfied that this would bring the 
weather at the time within  the definition of a storm by rainfall alone. 
Having satisfied myself that, on balance, there  was a storm Ill now address two further 
questions;
1.is the damage claimed  for consistent with what we generally  see as storm damage?
2.were storm  conditions  the main cause  of the damage?  
The answer to both of these  questions would need  to be yes for me to uphold  this complaint.
is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm damage?
Torrential rainfall over a prolonged period can cause some damage to a flat roof. And once a 
roof is damaged,  water can ingress  and cause damage to the interior  of properties. So Im 
satisfied that the damage experienced by Mrs R could be consistent with damage caused by 
a storm.
were storm  conditions the main cause  of the damage?
The expert report completed by AXA suggests that the flat roof was in a poor condition  and 
showed signs of wear and tear. It said the felt was lifting at the edges and that the roof, 
decking boards  and facials needed  replacing. It said the internal damage was caused by 
several ingresses  of rain and not a one off event. 
Mrs R says that but for the severity  and prolonged nature of the storms the roof wouldve 
withstood usual  weather  conditions. She also says that AXAs report is incorrect to say that 
there were previous  instances  of water ingress or previous repairs  to the flat roof. She 
doesnt think its reasonable to expect a policyholder to randomly undertake roof inspections  
for maintenance if there  had never  been  cause for repair.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence and arguments put forward  by both sides. I can 
understand the points Mrs R has raised  about  inspecting and maintaining the roof. But I 
should point out that the advice  section  of her policy clearly states:
Storms
Properties are designed to withstand damage by all but the most extreme  weather 
conditions. Normal weather conditions should  not cause damage to a well maintained 
property and damage of this nature  is not covered by this policy.  It is therefore 
important that you keep your property  in a good state of repair. Areas that you should 
focus on include blocked or broken gutters  or down-pipes, and loose or damaged 
roof tiles.
Some areas like flat roofs, fascia boards and boundary  walls  are difficult  to inspect so 
if you cannot check them yourself you should  use a relevant building expert  to do this 
for you.
Ref: DRN19297923And the general  exclusions  section says:
Gradual deterioration/maintenance
Any loss or damage  caused by wear and tear, depreciation,  the effects of light or the 
atmosphere, mould,  dry or wet rot or fungus  and costs that arise from the normal  
use, maintenance and upkeep of your buildings and its contents.
I agree  that the rainfall was likely  to be storm force, and I accept that there  was persistent  
although not always storm force  rainfall  over a four day period.  But from what  Ive seen, 
the rainfall wasnt accompanied by storm force winds. And based on everything Ive seen I 
think it is unlikely that such  weather would cause the type of damage  visible  to a well 
maintained roof similar to that of Mrs Rs. I say this because the photographs show the felt 
had come away from the edges  of the roof, and I dont think this would be caused  by heavy 
rainfall alone.
By her own admission, Mrs Rs roof was 27 years old and hadnt been maintained or 
repaired during  its lifespan. I dont think its surprising that a roof of this age would be 
showing signs of gradual damage/wear and tear. And damage caused  by wear and tear is 
specifically excluded under the gradual  deterioration/maintenance exclusion.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, on balance, I think its more  likely that the primary 
cause of damage was wear and tear  which the storm mightve  highlighted  but which  isnt 
covered by Mrs Rs policy.
It follows that I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to decline Mrs Rs claim for damage  
to her flat roof caused by a storm.
I also need to consider  the damage caused  to the interior of Mrs Rs property. AXAs  report  
said the internal  damage was caused by several  ingresses  of rain and not a one off event. 
Given the condition  of the flat roof I think that, on balance, its more likely than not that the 
ceiling underneath will have suffered multiple  ingresses of water  over time. I find it unlikely 
that the level of damage wouldve occurred due to a one off storm event. So I dont think 
AXA needs  to cover the internal damage  either.
my final decision
For the reasons  I dont  uphold Mrs Rs complaint  against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1929792