K821x#15complaint
Mr S and Ms H complain  that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service  in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
other companies and individuals  insofar as I hold that insurance company responsible for 
their actions.
Mr S and Ms H moved home in January 2019.  On 7 March 2019 Mr S took out a British Gas 
policy. As they shared the home,  I consider that Ms H also had the benefit of the policy.  
The policy was subject  to policy  terms. These  included a first service to check that the 
central heating boiler was on the British Gas approved list of boilers it could cover.  On 
22 March 2019  British Gas visited and the boiler passed the first service.
A few days  later, Mr S and Ms H reported  a hot water problem. On 27 March 2019 British  
Gas visited and said the boiler wasnt  on its approved  list. British  Gas cancelled  the policy.
Mr S and Ms H got quotes for the installation of a new boiler. British Gas quoted  £2,804.00. 
Mr S and Ms H accepted  another  companys quote and paid £2,328.00 including a magnetic 
filter. Mr S and Ms H complained that British Gas shouldve replaced the boiler under the 
policy. 
In a final response dated 23 May 2019,  British Gas said it made an error on the first service.  
British Gas offered  Mr S and Ms H £30.00 as a goodwill gesture. Unhappy with that, they 
brought their complaint  to us. They say British Gas should  reimburse  the £2,328.00 they had 
paid the other company less £132.00  for the magnetic filter  that is £2,196.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He thought that 
British Gas hadnt acted fairly and reasonably. He said the original boiler currently  retails  
between £600-700. £320.00 would be similar to around 50% of the average retail price  of the 
original boiler. He recommended that British  Gas should pay a further £320.00 in 
compensation as a contribution towards Mr S and Ms Hs cost.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and Ms H and to British  Gas on 17 March 2020.  I summarise my findings:
British Gas didnt  cover the boiler  for replacement.
The mistake  by British  Gas caused  Mr S and Ms H some extra upset and 
inconvenience when  they found out about it at an already difficult  time
Subject to any further information from Mr S and Ms H or from British Gas, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct British  
Gas Insurance  Limited to pay Mr S and Ms H (jointly) £150.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Ref: DRN12458382Mr S and Ms H disagree with the provisional decision. He says, in summary,  that:
Its unclear why the investigators opinion awarding £350.00 in compensation (which  
was far too low) has been discarded.
The balance of power and influence feels very lopsided.
£150.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience falls well short of what would 
be fair.
British Gas has treated them with contempt  from the very beginning, cancelling the 
insurance contract without warning  or apology at a critical and vulnerable  moment.
There have to be some significant consequences for that otherwise British  Gas will 
feel free to continue  such behaviour  with other customers  in the future.
British Gas also disagrees with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
£150.00 is much higher than it would award  for something that was essentially a 
genuine mistake  and which was highlighted just 5 days later when it returned  to the 
property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive noted the make  and model  of the boiler Mr S and Ms H had.
The policy provided  that the purpose of the first service was to check  whether  the boiler was 
on the approved  list and whether it had any pre-existing faults. The policy  provided that 
British Gas would tell the policyholder if the boiler wasnt on the approved  list. In that event, 
British Gas might cancel the policy.
In addition to the policy  term about  the first service, the policy contained a term about 
cancellation. One of the grounds for British Gas to cancel the policy  was that the boiler 
wasnt on its approved  list.
But the policyholder cant access the approved  list. He has to rely on British  Gas to check  
and that is one of the main purposes of the first service. So I dont find it fair that British  Gas 
said the boiler was on its approved list but later cancelled the policy  because  it wasnt.
The policy exclusion  relating  to sludge was as follows:
Damage  caused  by limescale,  sludge or other  debris, if weve told you before that 
you need to carry  out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Powerflush , or a 
similar process, but you havent done  so
Ive added the underlining. Theres no evidence that British Gas told Mr S before 27 March  
2019 that he needed to carry  out repairs, improvements or a flush.  So the policy  didnt 
exclude damage caused by sludge.
The policy provided  for a replacement  boiler if certain criteria were met.  British  Gas would 
only have had to install a replacement free of charge if the policy  criteria were  met. 
Otherwise Mr S and Ms H would have to pay for the installation of any new boiler.
Ref: DRN12458383One of the criteria for replacement was that the boiler was less than seven years old. 
Another of the criteria included that it was between seven and ten years old and had been 
continuously covered by British Gas. The other one of the criteria included  that the boiler had 
exploded or caught fire.
We recently asked Mr S for evidence of the age of the boiler. But he said he didnt have any 
documentation. Mr S has previously said British Gas told him the old boiler  wasnt  
repairable. And Mr S didnt get anyone else to repair the boiler. So I find it unlikely that the 
boiler was less than seven years old in March 2019.
There was a gap between January and March 2019 when Mr S didnt have British Gas cover  
for the boiler.  So it hadnt been  continuously  covered by British Gas.  No-one has suggested 
that it exploded or caught fire.
So I find that the boiler didnt meet any of the criteria for cover for replacement.  Thats  why I 
have over-ruled the investigators  opinion.
Ive seen the quote from British Gas (or strictly speaking a sister company of the insurance 
company) to Ms H dated 28 March  2019  for a total of £2,804.00 for the replacement  of the 
boiler. Ive also seen the quote from the plumbing  and heating  company which  replaced  the 
boiler at the lower cost of £2,328.00.
However, as I find that British Gas didnt cover the boiler for replacement, I dont find it fair to 
direct British Gas to contribute to the cost of replacement.
Nevertheless, I find that the mistake by British Gas caused Mr S and Ms H some  extra  upset 
and inconvenience  when they found out about it at an already difficult  time. In assessing 
compensation for this, I look at the impact of the mistake on Mr S and Ms H. its not my role 
to assess compensation  at a level to punish  or deter such  mistakes.
Overall I find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay Mr S and Ms H (jointly) 
£150.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr S and Ms H (jointly) £150.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1245838