K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the way Bulstrad Life Vienna  Insurance Group iJSC (BLV) handled his 
travel insurance claim. 
All refences to BLV include  their agents. 
background
In April 2019, Mr N went on a trip to Austria with his son. He missed his flight back home due 
to the single road out of the resort being closed because of an avalanche. As a result he had 
to make alternative travel arrangements which meant he incurred  additional costs  to get 
home. On his return to the UK he made  a claim under his travel  insurance policy. 
BLV declined  the claim  saying  their policy only covers missed  departure on the outward  leg 
of the journey and doesnt include the return journey. Mr N disagreed and said he also took 
out avalanche cover as well as a multi-trip policy so felt he should be covered for this. 
BLV told him the avalanche cover was only for cancellation or curtailment, but they said that 
wasnt what his claim was for. And they said the multi-trip cover referred to customers  who 
wished to make multiple trips throughout the year and not multiple flights during the same  
trip. 
Mr N wasnt happy with their response  so brought his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator considered  the complaint but didnt think BLV had unfairly declined  the claim. 
Mr N didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr N feels that he took out the travel insurance  policy  to cover  most typical  
holidays, whereby  getting to and from the destination is covered. However, not all events will 
be covered by a travel  insurance policy. Only specific,  defined  insured events set out in the 
policy will be covered. The onus is on the policy holder to show an insured event is the 
reason for the claim. 
I have read though Mr Ns policy and considered the sections  that deal with missed  
departures and optional  winter sports cover. In the section titled  MISSED DEPARTURE ON 
YOUR OUTWARD JOURNEY  an outward journey is defined as the internal  journey in 
conjunction with your trip from your home in your home country, therefore this section of the 
policy wouldnt apply to Mr Ns return journey.
The summary of cover,  set out on page  2 of Mr Ns policy  booklet,  says cover under missed  
departure only applies to the outward journey. And the Insurance Product Information 
Document also sets out in the What  is insured?  section that £750 is for Missed  Departure 
on your outward journey . So I think the policy was clear. 
I have also read the winter sports cover section of the policy and this provides cover in the 
event of an avalanche which results in cancellation  or curtailment of Mr Ns access  to and 
from the ski resort  it will provide cover  for accommodation and/or travel expenses to reach 
Ref: DRN17229082an alternative site as part of the trip and but it doesnt say it will provide cover  for the return  
flight. So I also think this section doesnt provide the cover Mr N is seeking. 
Ive also considered the multi-trip element  of the policy but Im satisfied this cover relates to 
customers who make regular  trips throughout the year rather  than cover for multiple flights  
within one trip. 
Taking the above into account, I dont think the flight Mr N missed is an insured event which  
is covered by his policy. This means I dont think BLV has been unfair or unreasonable  when  
they turned  down  his claim.    
Whilst I realise my decision will come  as a disappointment to Mr N, Im not asking BLV to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1722908