K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that she paid Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) £175.49  for extra  
miles on her telematics motor insurance policy when she didnt know  she was to receive  a 
final warning before cancellation.  She wants the £175.49 refunded.
background
Mrs B purchased extra miles for her policy. A week later, she received a letter from RSA with 
a final warning after a speeding event. The letter said the policy  would be cancelled if there 
was another speeding event. So Mrs B said she cancelled her policy  to avoid  having  a 
cancellation on her record. She said RSA should have checked its records when she 
purchased her extra miles and warned her. She said she paid £175.49  unnecessarily.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Mrs B 
had chosen to cancel her policy.  He didnt think RSA could have warned Mrs B about the 
final warning when  she purchased her extra  miles. So he didnt  think  RSA needed to pay her 
any refund.
Mrs B replied that having the final warning was too much of a risk to take and she had no 
option but to cancel her policy. She said RSA should have checked for potential  final 
warnings before taking  her money. She said she hadnt used the miles,  so RSA should  
refund her. Mrs B said that she wanted  her complaint reviewed. So its come to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs B would want to avoid  having her policy cancelled by RSA. This 
would have serious consequences for her and affect her obtaining insurance in the future. 
But Im not able to uphold  her complaint. Ill explain why I think  this. 
Mrs B said she bought the extra  miles  on 23 March 2018. But she said RSA didnt tell her 
about a speeding event  recorded on her policy on 16 March 2018.  She only learned about 
this on 29 March 2018 and she then cancelled  her policy.  She said she didnt use the extra 
miles and so RSA should give her a refund. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mrs Bs policy provided cover for a limited mileage. The policy has a section about Top Up 
Miles that can be purchased before the available miles have  run out. If the mileage was 
used up, Mrs B had the alternatives  of not using her car or cancelling her policy,  subject to 
terms and conditions. 
I can see from its records that RSA warned Mrs B about her mileage running low on 22 
February 2018. Mrs B said she bought 1,000  extra miles on 23 March  2018. The policy says 
that these can be bought  for an additional premium  and increase the available  miles. The 
available miles are for the current period of insurance. So I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for RSA to decline to refund Mrs B for these  when she cancelled her policy.   
Ref: DRN15816212Mrs B said RSA should have checked whether she had any potential  final warnings before 
taking her money. But RSA hadnt issued her its final warning at this point. So I cant say that 
RSA should have informed Mrs B about  this when she bought the extra  miles. 
Mrs Bs policy says that RSA has the right to cancel her policy  with seven days notice if it 
identifies unacceptable driving behaviour on multiple occasions. RSA said it identified three 
occasions when  Mrs B had been speeding, i.e. exceeding the speed limit of a road.  It said it 
wrote to her on each occasion  warning of the risk of cancellation if there  were  further  events. 
I think this was fair and reasonable  as it complies  with the policy terms and conditions.
RSA said Mrs B could have continued  driving without further incidents after she bought extra  
miles until her policy lapsed. Mrs B said that she was concerned  that going one or two miles 
over a limit might lead to cancellation. But I can see that in the three speeding events 
recorded, Mrs B exceeded the limit by 12 to 17 miles per hour. So I cant see that RSA sent 
her warnings for speeding  events of one or two miles.
RSA didnt cancel  Mrs Bs policy. But it did send her a final warning that it would cancel if 
there was another speeding  event.  I think Mrs B could have continued to drive  her car within 
the speed limit until the policy ended and so avoid  cancellation. I think it was her choice to 
cancel the policy.  So I dont agree with Mrs B that she didnt have a choice about cancelling  
her policy.  I think  it was for her to decide what risks to take.  And so I cant  say that RSA did 
anything wrong  in selling Mrs B the extra miles. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1581621