K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund debit card transactions that he says he 
didnt make or authorise.
background
Mr M told Metro  Bank that he didnt recognise  32 payments totalling around £300  made  
using his debit  card in February 2018. He says he lost his debit card and didnt notice it was 
missing until 6 February, having last used it on 5 February 2018. He was away overseas 
when the payments took place.
Metro Bank  says that Mr Ms genuine  card and personal identification number (PIN)  were  
used for one of the payments, whilst  the remainder were contactless payments.  It held Mr M 
liable for the transactions  because it couldnt see how an unknown  person had found out Mr 
Ms PIN. There was also a delay  before Mr M told it his card was missing.
Our investigator didnt  think Metro  Bank  had made a mistake in refusing to refund the 
disputed payments. She couldnt see any point at which an unknown third party could have 
obtained the card and learned the PIN.
Mr M disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed again so it has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as our investigator previously set out 
and for much the same reasons. 
Mr M has said that he lost his card on or around  6 February 2018. Originally he said that the 
last time he used the card was on 11 January 2018. All the payments after then were  made  
fraudulently. He was out of the country between 8 and 14 February 2018 so he couldnt have 
made them himself. He didnt report the card missing until 25 February 2018.
Mr M subsequently  said that he used  the card to withdraw £20 in cash  on 5 February 2018.
The disputed transactions were made  in February  2018. The regulations relevant to these 
are the Payment Service Regulations  2017.  In short, the regulations say that Metro Bank 
can hold Mr M liable for the disputed items  if the evidence suggests  that he most likely made 
or authorised them himself. So my primary concern is to come  to a view about whether or 
not I think Mr M authorised these  payments. But for me to be satisfied that these  payments  
were authorised, I first need to determine  whether they were  authenticated.
Authentication is the use of any procedure by which  a bank is able to verify the use of a 
specific payment instrument, including its personalised security features. Im satisfied from 
the evidence Metro Bank has provided that whoever  made  the transaction  had both the 
genuine card and PIN. I say this because Metro  Bank has shown that Mr Ms genuine card 
was used for all the transactions, as the genuine  unique chip was read in each case. And 
while the majority of the payments were contactless  so no PIN was input  there was one 
disputed payment where the correct PIN was entered.
Ref: DRN11756322So Ive then thought about  whether  Metro  Bank  has enough evidence  to suggest Mr M 
carried out the transaction.
As Ive said,  Im satisfied  Mr Ms genuine card was used  for all the payments and his PIN 
was also used for one of them so I consider whoever made the chip and PIN transaction  
also made the others.
The regulations relevant  to this case say that it is not, on its own, enough for Metro  Bank  to 
hold Mr M liable, just because his genuine card and PIN were used. So I also need to 
consider whether the evidence suggests  its more likely than not that he consented to the 
disputed transactions  being made.
Mr M says that he hasnt written down  his PIN. He has memorised  it. He suggested  that 
someone might have seen him entering it when he used the card on 5 February 2018. But if 
an unknown third party had noted Mr Ms PIN and taken his card then I would have expected  
them to try to take as much money as possible. Most of the disputed  payments were for low 
amounts and there were no attempts to withdraw  cash. And Mr M says that he used the card 
on 5 February but there were four disputed transactions which  happened  on 4 and 5 
February. This would  mean that the card would  have been taken from him and then 
returned, without  him noticing, so that he could use it on 5 February. Then someone would 
have to take it again for the rest of the disputed payments. I dont consider that this was 
likely.
Some of the payments that Mr M has disputed are consistent with someone who was 
travelling, as Mr M says he was doing.  Others were made for similar amounts at places that 
Mr M regularly made payments to. And one payment was made  using a travel  app that I see 
Mr M also used.  The card wasnt used at all whilst  Mr M was not in the UK. So if Mr M didnt  
make these payments  himself, I think it more likely than not that they were made by 
someone who knew him well.
During the time of the disputed payments, I find that Mr M was using his mobile  app to make  
transfers. During all of his online activity, I think,  at the very least,  he would have seen the 
payments. Mr M said that he didnt  make these himself, so I think  he would have been 
extremely concerned  about  what was happening  on his account.  I would have  expected him 
to immediately report payments he didnt recognise,  particularly given the frequency, as 
soon as he became  aware of them. But he didnt do so until more than two weeks after they 
started. Mr M says that this was because he didnt know  how to report his card as lost or 
stolen. But his mobile app had a facility to block or cancel a card or he could have 
telephoned Metro  Bank to report the situation.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr M didnt authorise 
the payments.  So from all that Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Metro Bank to 
conclude that Mr M authorised the transaction. I say this because: 
Theres no convincing explanation for how the third party could have got hold of Mr Ms 
card or known his PIN. He said he hasnt written it down  or shared it with anyone. 
The disputed payments started  before  Mr M says he lost his card and before he made  a 
genuine cash withdrawal. There isnt any plausible account for how an unknown  person 
could have taken  Mr Ms card and learned  his PIN, then replaced it so Mr M could use it, 
before taking it again, all without  him noticing.
Ref: DRN11756323The card was used  for relatively low value transactions. If it had been  taken by an 
unauthorised third party I would have expected them to withdraw as much  as they could. 
There were no cash  withdrawals.
Mr M was regularly  using his mobile  app so I think  he was aware of what  was happening  
and he could have  reported it to Metro  Bank  far sooner than he did.
Taking everything into account,  I find on balance that Mr M carried out or consented to the 
disputed transactions.  It follows  that Metro Bank is entitled to hold him liable for them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1175632