K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  to protect  their mortgage.
background
In 2004 Mr and Mrs C applied for a Nationwide mortgage using an intermediary. But they 
took out PPI by post after Nationwide sent them information and an application form - Mr and 
Mrs C had indicated in their mortgage application  that they were  interested in getting  more 
information about protecting their mortgage  payments.
The PPI was free for the first 12 months. The policy was set up to provide  joint cover with an 
elected benefit of £1400   Mr and Mrs C chose  to cover the mortgage payment plus an 
additional amount.  The policy would pay out for up to 12 months  per claim.
After the free period  ended the policy cost around £75 a month.
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage and PPI ended when the mortgage was redeemed  in 2013.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said the evidence  showed Mr and Mrs C 
chose to take out PPI and there was nothing to indicate theyd lost out as a result of taking 
out the policy.
Mr and Mrs C disagree.  They say they were told by the agent that the mortgage approval 
was based on them taking out PPI.
The complaint therefore comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, this complaint and final decision is about Nationwide  and what  it 
did or didnt  do when it sold Mr and Mrs C PPI. If, as I think Mr and Mrs C are saying in their 
most recent submission, the mortgage intermediary said things about PPI which  they arent 
happy with (as far as I can see he was only dealing  with the mortgage) then this is a 
separate matter  and Mr and Mrs C will need to raise a separate  complaint about  him. This is 
not something I can or will comment on in this decision.
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that while Mr and Mrs C used the services  of an 
intermediary to apply  for their mortgage, it was Nationwide  that sent them information and an 
application form for PPI as they requested in the mortgage application. This was therefore a 
sale by post.
Because of this, Im also satisfied that Nationwide didnt advise or recommend PPI as being  
suitable for Mr and Mrs C  it gave them information  only so that they could make that 
decision for themselves.  Ive kept this in mind in considering  this complaint.
Ref: DRN18928232did Nationwide make  it clear to Mr and Mrs C PPI was optional?
Ive already said above that the mortgage and PPI  although  taken out around the same 
time  were in my view separate  and distinct transactions.
Firstly, looking  at the mortgage application Nationwide  has provided  I can see here that Mr 
and Mrs C indicated Yes, I would like details  of how to protect my mortgage payments 
The application didnt  say PPI was compulsory or in my view imply that a mortgage would 
only be granted if Mr and Mrs C took it out.
Nationwide has also provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage offer letter.  And again 
there is nothing here to indicate the mortgage  was only being  granted on the basis  they took 
out PPI.
To take out the policy Mr and Mrs C completed  a separate PPI application form choosing  the 
level of cover, the benefit, the percentage benefit  split as well as the claim benefit  period. Im 
also mindful that Mr and Mrs C elected  to take out additional cover above  their monthly 
mortgage repayment. So by having  to complete a separate application requiring the 
selection of various  options, I dont think Mr and Mrs C would have been given the 
impression that they had to have PPI.
So overall, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C chose to take out PPI and I think  they did so without 
undue pressure.
did Nationwide give Mr and Mrs C clear,  fair and not misleading  information about 
PPI?
Nationwide was required to give Mr and Mrs C enough clear and timely information about  
PPI, including  highlighting the significant  exclusions  and limitations  of cover,  so they could 
make an informed decision about it.
Nationwide says the PPI application  was accompanied by a leaflet containing  more  
information  a copy of which I have seen.  Given this was a sale by post I think  it is likely this 
was the kind of information  Mr and Mrs C were  sent  it would be unusual  for just an 
application form to have been  sent. I also think Mr and Mrs C would have paid more 
attention to this written  information than say if theyd taken the policy  out during a meeting  
when it would be reasonable  for them to have relied more on the spoken words of an 
adviser.
If Mr and Mrs C had read this information  I think they would  have got at the very least a 
broad sense of what the cover provided and how the cost was calculated  albeit Mr and Mrs 
C didnt pay anything for the first 12 months  of cover.
And while this information  did contain  information about the key exclusions and limitations of 
cover, Im not persuaded these were highlighted  as important information  or clearly brought 
to Mr and Mrs Cs attention. 
Nationwide likely sent Mr and Mrs C a full policy document after the sale because this is 
what it was required to do. But they didnt  base their decision  to take it out on this 
information.
Ref: DRN18928233So overall I dont  think Nationwide fairly  and reasonably did do everything it was supposed 
to.
But this doesnt  mean Mr and Mrs C should  automatically get back what they paid for the 
policy. I need to go on to consider, if and to what extent theyve lost out as a result.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs C have lost out  I think  they wouldve still taken 
the policy out anyway if Nationwide had done  more. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs C were eligible for the cover.
The policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable for them  they werent affected 
by the significant exclusions and limitations of cover e.g. for unusual employment 
circumstances or existing medical  conditions, which  might have put them  off.
The policy didnt operate significantly differently from the information  they based  their 
decision on  for example they understood it was free for 12 months.  And because 
the cover  was described as protecting  their mortgage payments I dont think  their 
expectations about what the policy would  pay out was different from what  it actually 
did. Im mindful as I said above that Mr and Mrs C chose the level of benefit the 
policy provided.
Mr and Mrs C say they had sick pay as well as redundancy pay they couldve relied 
on. But Mr and Mrs C chose to take out the cover and they did so with the knowledge 
of their existing means. Ive already said they understood the cost and chose the 
benefit, so I think they were  in a position to understand and weigh up if the cost and 
the benefit proposition worked  for them.
And when  the free period ended 12 months  later, Nationwide  wrote to them to set out 
what the cost would be going  forward. If the cost wasnt  affordable at this stage or 
they thought the policy  was no longer useful to them,  they couldve cancelled  it 
without penalty.  But Mr and Mrs C didnt  do that, so I think they saw the benefit and 
considered the policy  would  be useful  to them if anything happened;  particularly as 
the policy wouldve  helped them  protect their home.
So overall and after careful consideration of all the evidence presented in this case, I find Mr 
and Mrs C have not fairly  and reasonably  suffered loss or damage  as a result  of taking out 
PPI to protect their mortgage  I think their decision to take it out would have been no 
different had Nationwide done  anything more.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr and Mrs C have not lost out as a 
result of taking out PPI, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1892823