K820x#14complaint
Miss D says she was mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI), with a store  card. 
Another business sold the PPI policy, but AXA France  IARD  (AXA) has taken responsibility 
for the sale and this complaint. 
background
Miss D took out a monthly  premium  PPI policy in 2001, when she opened  a store  card 
account. Along with other cover  it provided, the policy would pay part of Miss Ds account  
balance each month if she couldnt work because of accident or sickness,  or lost her job. 
Miss D is complaining about  how the PPI was sold to her. Among other things, she says the 
cost and terms of the PPI werent fully explained.  And she feels  her employee benefits 
meant she didnt need  it.
Our adjudicator initially looked at this as a complaint against the insurer, Financial Insurance  
Company Limited,  but that company has transferred its relevant business to AXA.  So to 
keep things simple  Ive referred just to AXA below, although AXA didnt actually  sell the PPI. 
The adjudicator took the view the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But Miss D disagrees,  so 
its come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account when 
deciding Miss Ds case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  her complaint. Ill explain why.
was Miss D given a fair choice?
The sale took place  many years ago. But from what weve been told I think its likely that 
while in a shop  Miss D picked up, or was given, an application form for a store  card which  
she filled out, signed and handed  in.
I dont know what,  if any discussions  Miss D had with the staff in the shop, before she signed  
the application form for the card. But Ive looked at her completed form, and I see it had a 
box which could be signed  if she wanted  to have  PPI with her card.  Immediately above  the 
box it said Yes, I would like to protect  my Account with Account Cover (which  is what  AXA 
called its policy); Please  debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further 
notice. It also said Only  sign this box if you require Account Cover. Miss D signed  in the 
box, separately from where  she signed  the overall application. 
The form didnt expressly say the PPI was optional. But I think  it made it sufficiently clear 
that by signing  in the box shed be applying to have PPI. If she didnt want it she couldve 
simply left this box blank, as she did for some of the other things the form offered. I think she 
wouldve known she was being given a choice.
Ref: DRN16364872So in my view AXA did enough  to make Miss D aware that she could choose whether or not 
to have the PPI, and she decided to have it. Her representatives have said she wasnt  told 
that she could  get PPI elsewhere if she wanted, but to my mind AXA didnt have to do that. 
AXA just needed  to make  her aware  she didnt have  to take out the policy it was offering.
was Miss D given good enough information? 
Miss D and AXA are agreed that AXA didnt advise her personally to have the PPI. I think  
thats probably right. As far as I know, she didnt discuss  PPI with the staff in the shop.  That 
meant AXA didnt  have to find out about her particular circumstances, such  as her employee 
benefits, to check  that the policy would meet her needs. She had to decide that for herself.
But AXA did still have to give Miss D good  enough  information  about the cost, benefits and 
terms of the PPI before she agreed  to buy it, so she could decide if it was right for her.
The form included brief details of the PPI. But I cant be sure what,  if any other  information  
she got about it, and when. So its possible the information shed had when she decided to 
take out the PPI couldve been clearer. For example,  as her representatives have pointed 
out, she might not have  realised that as the cost of the policy would be added  to her card 
account, she could  be charged interest on it if she didnt pay off her monthly balance.
But in my view, even if shed had better information,  Miss D wouldve probably taken out the 
PPI anyway. Thats because, from what weve been  told about her circumstances when she 
agreed to have the PPI, and looking at the likely  terms of the policy,  I think she was eligible 
for it and it couldve been helpful for her. And I dont think any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover wouldve  put her off buying it.
Ive taken into account that Miss D has told us she couldve got up to six months full sick 
pay if she was off work because of illness or injury. But the PPI benefits  wouldve been paid 
on top of any sick pay or redundancy payment she got and wouldve left these available  for 
her other day to day expenses. And shes  told us she didnt have  any savings or other 
means she couldve used  to make her card repayments.
Weighing everything up, I think the PPI couldve been useful for Miss D. By signing the box 
in the form, shed shown she was interested  in having it. And if shed  been  made  fully aware 
of its cost and main features, I think shed still have seen the policy  as potentially helpful. If 
she didnt use the card a lot, the PPI wouldnt cost her very much.  If she did, it would provide 
potentially useful benefits. Ive seen nothing  to suggest she couldnt  afford  it. And as shed 
be paying for the PPI monthly, she could  cancel it at any time without further cost if her 
situation changed, or she didnt want it any longer.
So on balance I think she would probably  still have bought the policy, if shed been  told 
everything about it that she shouldve been.  This means Miss D isnt worse  off as a result of 
anything AXA mightve done wrong.  And theres nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
I realise Miss D will be disappointed by this outcome. Ive thought carefully about all the 
points she and her representatives  have raised. But based on everything  Ive read and been  
told, I dont think  I can fairly  and reasonably  say this PPI was mis-sold to her.
Ref: DRN16364873my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint. AXA France IARD doesnt 
have to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February  2020.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1636487