K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Ms W bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a loan. Ms W said she 
remembers things happened  over the phone   but according to Lloyds records she applied 
for the loan and PPI policy in-branch.
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £95.90 was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 12-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  including  PPI was £54.09 - the PPI cost around £8.70.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Ms Ws monthly loan repayment for up to the 
remaining term in the event of a successful  claim given  the short loan term of 12 months.  
At the time,  Ms W was employed as a vending operator. She has told us she was entitled  to 
less than three months sick pay and around  the same in redundancy pay. Ms W said she 
didnt have any other means  of repaying  her loan should she be unable to work. Ms W has 
said she had a medical condition at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 1995.
Ms Ws representative  has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ws representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Ms W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Ms W about the poor value;
 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms W and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
Ref: DRN10175902Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms W disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ws complaint
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  the same year - 1995. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
Ref: DRN10175903other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Ms Ws case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Ms Ws complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Ms W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Ms W sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms W suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms W and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Ms Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Ms W know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN10175904Lloyds no longer has a copy of Ms Ws loan agreement, which isnt surprising given how 
long-ago things happened. But it has provided  an example agreement that it says is 
representative of what Ms W likely saw when she took out her loan. Looking at this I can see 
the cost of the PPI was set out separately from the main cash loan and is described here as 
Optional Repayment Protection. And further down the agreement there is a separate 
section also headed  Optional Loan  Repayment Protection which has two boxes  Yes and 
No  which  the applicant  either needed  to complete with a tick on the relevant box, or it was 
printed reflecting their choice from the application form its likely they had to complete prior to 
the loan being agreed.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  from Ms W 
that something very different  happened, I think Ms Ws loan agreement was likely  the same  
as or very similar to the example provided. As such I think its more  likely  that Ms W knew 
the policy was optional and she agreed  to take it out without  undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Ms W agree that advice was provided during this sale.
 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Ms W with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Ms W. It seems Ms W cant remember clearly  what happened  and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about Ms 
Ws financial circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps  
to establish whether Ms W would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Ms W had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Ms W given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Ms W, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Ms W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Ms Ws ability to continue  to 
meet her loan repayments would have been put under strain if she was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the employee  benefits she says 
she would have  been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Ms W.
Ref: DRN10175905-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms W. There was 
nothing about  Ms Ws employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult 
for her to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Ms W has told us about a 
medical condition  she had before the sale  she says since  birth.  But she hasnt said 
or implied that she had to take any time off work  for her condition or that she 
considered it to be problematic  it appears it was controlled. So I dont think  shed 
have thought (and/or the adviser would have  thought) that her condition  would  likely  
be the main reason  shed need to claim on the policy. Because  of this, I dont think 
the policy was wholly unsuitable for her or that it was wrong  for Lloyds to have 
recommended it to her. 
-There were  also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Ms W cancelled the policy 
early, the loan term was relatively short and there is nothing  to suggest (at the time) 
that Ms W had plans to repay  the loan early. The purpose  of the loan was not debt 
consolidation or anything else which might suggest a need to repay the loan early,  or 
that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Ms W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms W was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Ms W would have taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was. And I think Ms W knew that the single premium being  added to 
the loan was £95.90  and the monthly cost was £8.70 (as this information was, in my view,  
sufficiently clear on the loan agreement I believe Ms W signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, sufficient information about  the cost  for 
example the loan agreement does not show the total cost of the policy over the term of the 
loan, including  interest - or about  the exclusions or limitations before Ms W agreed  to take 
out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms W Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Ms W. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Ms W all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN10175906In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ws representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ws. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms W about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms W has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Lloyds shortcomings  have on Ms W? To what extent did Ms W suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Ms W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Ms W 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Ms W, I have found  that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms W has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Ms W would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Ms W says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms W had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
Ref: DRN10175907product she could buy that would protect  her loan payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Ms W knew  she was borrowing the money to 
pay for the policy and that it would cost £8.70 a month, it doesnt appear  Lloyds told her the 
total cost of the policy over the loan term including the interest. Having  said that, given the 
loan was relatively small and interest  would only accrue over 12 months,  and the interest 
would not have made the policy cost significantly more than Ms W realised, I dont think its 
likely the missing cost information would have  affected Ms Ws decision to buy the policy in 
her circumstances. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Ms W would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if she had been 
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Ms W would get back  in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Ms Ws expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Ms W knew about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy,  or anything  shed seen 
a doctor  about  in the 12 months  before the start date and which recurred within  12 
months of the start date;
Chronic or continuing conditions were excluded; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Ms W repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Ms W to have done so; 
and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms W be unable to 
do her own job or any work  which her experience, education or training reasonably 
qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Ms W pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms W from taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Ms Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  useful  to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Ms W says she had a medical  
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had she 
Ref: DRN10175908needed time off work because of this condition, for the same reasons I set out above  as to 
why I think the policy  was nevertheless suitable  for her, I dont think better information about  
this exclusion would  have  likely put her off agreeing to it. 
In addition I havent seen any evidence to suggest  she wouldve been caught  by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms W would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Ms W had known  she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable  to do her job 
but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers  view she might  reasonably  be qualified 
for, it might have played into her thinking about what she would do. And I accept it may have 
given her pause for thought  although  given Ms Ws circumstances, on balance,  I still think  
she would  have been interested in taking out the cover.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms W would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Ms W made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Ms W 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Ws representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. 
Considering the purpose of the guidance,  I dont think it was ever intended  to be at odds  with 
the approach  I have  taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms W would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms W 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ms W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN10175909Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms W in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Ms W compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ws representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  But this doesnt  persuade  
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Ms W in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1017590