K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as 
the insurer, should accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card which Mrs T took out in 2000. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs T disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mrs T has said PPI was added without her knowledge. FICL has provided  a copy  of the card 
application Mrs T signed for her store card. Theres a section in the applicaton titled 
Account Cover which is to purchase PPI. In this section I can see Mrs T has signed 
separately for the PPI from the card which indicates  that she wanted and agreed to the 
cover. The section states Only sign this box if you require Account Cover so if Mrs T didnt  
want PPI, she didnt have  to sign to take it. I dont know  what  was discussed  at the time but 
as Mrs T was agreeing  to additional  credit, I would  have expected her to have read the form 
and raised any questions she had at the time before signing in agreement  with it.
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely  Mrs T knew at the time 
that the PPI was optional  and that she actively decided to take it. But I can understand why 
she might  not recall this now, as the sale took place such  a long time ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs T so it didnt need to check that it was suitable, 
given her circumstances at the time. But it did need  to ensure that she was given enough  
information to decide whether she wanted  to take it. Although I dont know what was said 
to her then,  I think its likely that the information she received about the PPI could have 
been better than it was. But I dont  think better  information would have  changed her mind 
about taking the cover. I say this because:
Mrs T appears to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions  or limitations.
 The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months if Mrs T wasnt  able to work 
because of an accident, sickness  or unemployment. Mrs T has said she would have 
received good  sick pay from her employer at the time but PPI would have paid out in 
addition to her sick pay. So I think she would  have  valued  the extra  security which the 
policy gave her if things  went wrong. 
Ref: DRN12476902 Ive no reason to think  the policy was unaffordable for Mrs T. And as the policys 
premiums were  paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled it if it no longer  met her 
needs.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Financial Insurance
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1247690