K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  failed  to correctly update that a County 
Court Judgement (CCJ) had been  satisfied in December 2012. 
background 
In late 2012 Mr A settled  some outstanding  debts.  One of these was a CCJ linked to his 
HSBC credit card. Mr As conveyancing solicitor wrote to HSBC  to confirm that the debt had 
been settled and asked that it arranged for the records to be updated accordingly.
In March 2013, Mr A applied for a job as a contractor. Following his successful application 
he was told there would be a screening process before he could start. Mr A didnt pass  the 
screening process and the contracting offer was withdrawn. The screening process had 
shown that the HSBC  CCJ wasnt  showing as satisfied.
Mr A contacted HSBC  in November 2013  asking  for it to update  that the CCJ had been 
satisfied. It wrote back to him in December 2013 to confirm  that it had arranged  for the 
records linked to the CCJ to be updated.
In August  2017  Mr A applied for a six month job as a contractor, through  a recruitment 
agency. Again he was successful in his application  and told thered be a screening process 
before he could start. This screening process brought  to light that the HSBC CCJ still wasnt  
showing as satisfied. Mr A contacted HSBC. It apologised that the CCJ wasnt  showing as 
satisfied and arranged  for it to be updated. It sent Mr A confirmation that this had been done. 
He was then able to provide this to the recruitment agency and was able to start his 
contracting job about one month  later than originally anticipated.
Unhappy that HSBC hadnt updated  his credit file when  it said it had in 2013,  Mr A 
complained. He also raised concerns  that this had impacted  him arranging rental 
accommodation and that it had affected  his 2017 contract being extended. It looked into his 
concerns. It agreed that it had taken longer than it should have done to update  the 
information on his credit file. It also accepted that it had previously  told him that itd consider 
any loss of earnings when this wasnt  the case.  To recognise the trouble and upset it had 
caused it offered  him £500.
Mr A didnt accept this and referred  his complaint to this service. One of our investigators  
looked into what had happened.  She wasnt satisfied that it was only the HSBC  CCJ that had 
meant Mr A hadnt passed the screening in 2013.  This was because  there  was other  CCJs 
showing on his credit file at the time.  And she hadnt  seen anything  to show that the HSBC 
CCJ on its own had made it difficult to arrange rental accommodation or that this had 
stopped the contract he started  in September 2017  being extended  for a further six months.  
She did agree that it had taken HSBC  too long to update that the CCJ had been satisfied. 
She felt HSBC should award £150  in addition to the £500 it had already offered.
HSBC accepted what the investigator had said. Mr A didnt and thought the award of £650 
wasnt high enough.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN18866782HSBC has admitted that it took too long for it to update that the CCJ had been satisfied. 
Following our involvement it has offered £650  to recognise the trouble and upset  it has 
caused to Mr A.
Mr A doesnt  think the amount put forward fairly  reflects  the trouble and upset he has 
experienced. In particular  hes said that he has had a job offer withdrawn, one job start date 
delayed and has struggled to secure rental  accommodation for him and his family.
Ive thought carefully on whether the £650  put forward  is fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Im satisfied  that it is.
Its not in doubt  that the CCJ with HSBC was satisfied in late 2012. And I agree with Mr A 
that it wouldve  caused him some distress when, following his job offer in March 2013, he 
discovered that HSBC  hadnt updated  the court that it had been  satisfied.  But I cant 
conclude that this was the sole reason why the job offer was withdrawn.
Mr A has provided email correspondence between himself and the recruitment  agency.  In 
the email chain there is reference to three CCJs showing on Mr As credit  file. The recruiter 
does say that if we get a satisfactory HSBC or Solicitor letter / confirmation by Thursday we 
should be OK for a Monday start, if its after Thursday the start date is likely to be mid next 
week.  This latest email was dated 9 April 2013. Mr A has also provided a letter from his 
conveyancing solicitor, confirming the CCJ was settled, with the same date. And this was 
provided to the recruiter  two days later. 
This suggests that Mr A was able to provide all the information needed to start his role but 
for some reason it was subsequently withdrawn. I havent been  provided with any 
information to explain why it was withdrawn. But, based on what  Ive seen, Mr A provided  the 
information that hed been asked for about  the HSBC  CCJ. And because  of this, I dont think 
I can safely say that his offer was solely withdrawn due to the HSBC CCJ not showing as 
satisfied.
Mr A wrote to HSBC  in November 2013  asking for it to update  that the CCJ with it had been 
settled and satisfied.  It wrote back to him in December 2013  to confirm that it had done this. 
So again,  I accept  it wouldve  been upsetting for him to find, in August  2017, that HSBC still 
hadnt done what it said it would back in 2013.  And Im pleased  to see that it rectified the 
issue, albeit some years later than it said it had, and Mr A was able to start his contracting  
role. 
Mr A has said that hed been  told that his initial six month contract  would be extended  for a 
further six months. But due to the issues caused  by HSBC this wasnt  the case. I havent 
seen anything on file to confirm that this was the case. He has provided his contract for this 
role but this confirms  that it is a six month contract. And there is no reference  to it potentially 
being extended. There are a number of reasons why Mr As contract  may not have been  
extended and I cant safely  say that it was solely down  to the issues  with HSBC that had by 
then been resolved.
He has also raised  concerns that the delay from HSBC made it more difficult for him to 
secure rented accommodation. Mr A hasnt been  able to provide any information  to support 
this concern. Whilst I accept the HSBC CCJ may have  caused  him some challenges, like our 
investigator I havent seen  anything to show that it was the sole reason. Ive also taken into 
Ref: DRN18866783account that I wouldve expected Mr A to raise  this with HSBC if this had been the case.  But 
it wasnt until September 2017 that he did so following his job offer as a contractor. 
For the reasons  given  above HSBC should  pay Mr A £650 to recognise the trouble and 
upset it has caused  in failing to update that the CCJ had been  settled  and satisfied as 
quickly as it should  have done.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC  UK Bank  Plc. To put things  
right it should pay Mr A £650 in recognition of the trouble and upset it has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1886678