K822xcomplaint
Mr K is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined his claim for the cost of 
emergency dental treatment and replacement  flights to the UK, when he was taken ill 
abroad.
All references to URV includes its agents  and representatives
background 
Mr K bought a single trip travel  insurance  policy underwritten by URV. The policy was bought 
through a comparison  website  and covered him from 12 January  2019 to 
12 February 2019. 
On 12 February 2019, Mr K contacted  URVs  assistance company  to say hed been suffering  
dental pain and needed treatment. He told URV  hed been due to fly home the previous day 
but hadnt been able to find a dentist to treat him. He went  on to say that having  now seen a 
dentist, hed been told he needed treatment  including a tooth  extraction.
URVs representative clarified the policy details with him and confirmed his policy included 
up to £250.00  for emergency dental  treatment.  She went  on to say that if Mr K was able to 
provide medical  evidence  to show hed been  unfit to fly the previous day, URV would 
consider whether any additional benefit,  for replacement flights, would be payable  under the 
policy terms.
Mr K went  ahead with his treatment.
A few days  later Mr K contacted URV again  and discovered his claim had been declined 
because hed taken  out the insurance policy after leaving the UK. This meant the policy  was 
invalid.
Mr K complained. He said had URV  given him the correct  information when he first called, 
he wouldnt  have incurred  dental  treatment costs or needed to buy a new flight home.  
In response, URV agreed to cover the costs of Mr Ks dental treatment recognising the 
incorrect information hed been given. But it didnt agree  to cover the costs of his 
replacement flights.  Thats  because Mr K had already missed his return  flight by the time he 
first got in touch. 
Mr K remained unhappy  and referred his complaint to this service.
During our investigation, Mr K clarified  the position  with his missed flight. He said he hadnt 
missed his return flight to the UK  just an internal connecting flight   and if URVs 
representative had told him he wasnt insured, he could have booked an alternative 
connecting flight which would have allowed him to return to the UK on his original ticket. 
Mr K said buying a new ticket back to the UK meant  hed gotten into debt.
He also wanted  URV  to recognise that by agreeing to cover his dental costs, hed made the 
decision to remain abroad for longer than planned and by doing  so, hed had to delay 
starting a new job. He wanted  compensation for the stress and upset hed suffered.
Our investigator considered Mr Ks complaint and upheld it in part. 
Ref: DRN19911482She agreed  that URV  should cover the costs of Mr Ks dental treatment due to the incorrect 
information hed been given. She was satisfied Mr K had given URV the information it 
needed to identify that the policy wasnt valid. 
But she didnt think URV should refund the cost of Mr Ks additional flights. Thats  because  
Mr K couldnt provide  evidence of his original  flight plans.  He also couldnt  show  hed gotten 
into debt by having to buy new flights. As a result,  our investigator couldnt be satisfied  it was 
URVs mistake  that meant Mr K incurred additional flight costs.
And she didnt think she could hold URV responsible for Mr K being unable to start his new 
job as planned.  Thats because URV  were  only responsible for giving advice about  the policy 
terms not advising Mr K whether or not to proceed with treatment.
She also thought  URV should  return the policy premium to Mr K because URV were  never  
on risk of a claim.
URV agreed  with our investigator  but Mr K did not. He didnt  think our investigators opinion  
went far enough to recognise the impact  of URVs mistake on him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr K will be disappointed, but I agree with our investigator  and for largely  the same 
reasons. Let me explain.
The starting point  is always  the terms and conditions  of the policy  Mr K held with URV.  The 
policy terms form the basis of the contract  entered into by the parties.  In this case  Mr Ks 
policy was only valid if it had been taken out before  he left the UK. This information is shown 
in the policy  documents under the section headed  Criteria for purchase. 
The Criteria for purchase includes  
This insurance is sold on the understanding that you and anyone travelling with you 
and named on the insurance certificate:
Have not started the trip
This information is also included in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID).  The 
IPID includes:
Whats not insured? 
Trips which have begun  before your policy  cover  start date
Ref: DRN19911483Mr K bought the policy on-line during a stop-over in the United States, having left the UK the 
day before. And Im satisfied he was provided with the information he needed to know  the 
policy wouldnt cover  his trip.
But Ive carefully  considered the impact of URVs mistake on the decision Mr K made about 
his treatment and the subsequent need  to extend his stay.
Dental treatment
Mr K, based  on the incorrect information given to him by URVs representative, went ahead  
with his dental treatment. URV has agreed to cover the cost of that treatment and Im 
satisfied thats  the right thing to do in the circumstances.
Additional flight costs
Having listened  to the call between Mr K and URV of 12 February  2019,  Im satisfied Mr K 
told URV hed already  missed his flight home. I understand Mr K might  have meant  hed 
missed the first leg of his journey  home  but in the absence of any further information to 
support his position, I cant reasonably  hold URV  responsible for any additional flight  costs 
he incurred. And as a result, I cant say URV are responsible  for any debt that may have 
followed.
And Mr K hasnt been able to show he was medically unfit to return  to the UK on his original 
flight.
Policy refund
I agree  URV should refund the cost of Mr Ks policy. Thats because URV  were never on 
risk of a claim. 
URV has said it wouldnt have sold the policy to Mr K if it had known hed already started his 
trip. And Im satisfied it gave Mr K sufficient information, at the time,  for him to know the 
policy wouldnt cover  him. But I dont think Mr K attempted to mislead  URV  about his plans. 
And on that basis, I think its fair to return Mr Ks premium as if the policy never  existed.
Compensation
Whilst I understand Mr K would have been disappointed and upset about not being able to 
start his new job as planned,  Im not satisfied  URVs handling of his claim was directly 
responsible. 
It seems  likely Mr K would have needed urgent treatment for his dental  problems, either in 
the UK or overseas. And Mr Ks start date in his new role wasnt  delayed because  he wasnt  
back in the UK in time.  His new job was due to start on 4 March 2019  and from the 
information Ive seen, he returned  to the UK before then.  It seems  more likely his start date 
was delayed because  of the treatment  he needed  rather than any mistake  on URVs part. 
But Im pleased to hear he was able to delay his start date rather  than the job offer being  
withdrawn.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Union Reiseversicherung AG should:
Ref: DRN19911484Pay Mr K £65.00 which covers the cost of his dental treatment overseas  if it hasnt 
already done so; and
Refund the cost of his policy, adding 8% simple  interest from the time the policy was 
incepted until the date of the refund
Union Reiseversicherung  AG should  action  the above within 28 days  of our service  notifying 
it that Mr K accepts our decision.
And if Union Reiseversicherung AG considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  
to deduct income  tax from the interest, it should  tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr K a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2021.
Sian Brightey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1991148