K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a loan. Mrs B says HSBC UK Bank plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Due to the passage of time, there  are no longer any documents available from the time the 
PPI was sold. So in cases such as this one, where  there is little or no evidence,  I have to 
consider what both parties have said to come to a decision on what  I think is more likely to 
have happened.
Mrs B says the PPI was not discussed  and it was added without her knowledge.  And while 
I dont doubt these are her honest recollections, she hasnt  been able to remember  how the 
policy was sold to her, nor has she given us any more information about what happened at 
the time.  And I have to keep in mind that this policy was sold a long time ago  around 18 
years ago. So without  any evidence to support what Mrs B has said, its difficult  to rely on 
this alone to say that something  untoward  happened. 
HSBC says that PPI wouldve been discussed  and Mrs B wouldve had the option to accept 
or decline the PPI. In support of this, its provided  a sample loan agreement which it says 
wouldve been used  at the time  and Ive not seen  any reason to doubt that this type of 
document wouldve been used so Ive relied on this in my decision. This sample  agreement  
shows PPI set out separately to the loan and also includes a separate section for PPI where 
the applicant wouldve  had to sign to confirm  theyd decided to take out the policy. This 
signature wouldve  been separate and additional  to their signature  to agree to the loan 
terms. So based on this, and in the absence of any stronger evidence to the contrary, I think  
its more likely than not that HSBC made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this 
now.
Mrs B says she cant remember  if she was advised to take out the PPI, and HSBC dont 
know either. As things  stand, there  isnt enough information to determine this point. But 
being able to do so isnt crucial to the outcome  because, had HSBC recommended the 
policy, I think it wouldve been  a suitable recommendation for the reasons I set out below. As 
a result,  Ive considered the complaint as an advised sale.
As an advised sale HSBC  had to check that the PPI was right for Mrs B  and based  on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a 
need for the cover. 
Mrs B says she didnt need the PPI as she had some sick pay which  she couldve used to 
make her repayments and had private  medical insurance. But medical insurance wouldnt 
Ref: DRN10911602have covered her income nor would  it have made  the repayments on her loan if she was 
made redundant  so this cover is different to the cover PPI wouldve provided. Mrs B also 
said she couldve relied on a joint household  income if needed, but help from others cant  
always be relied upon, as their circumstances can also change.  Upon a successful  claim the 
PPI wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months,  and this wouldve been in addition  to her sick 
pay. So her sick pay wouldve  been  free to use for other expenses,  had she had an accident 
or been too sick to work. And Mrs B has told us that she borrowed this money for general 
spending, so I think she wouldve  needed the financial security this policy provided had she 
been suddenly  unable to work. And so I dont think Mrs Bs sick pay made the policy  
unsuitable for her given  her circumstances overall.
The sample loan agreement given to us by HSBC indicates that the cost of Mrs Bs PPI 
policy was likely to have  been made  clear  to her as it sets out the premium,  the interest  on 
the premium, the total cost and the monthly cost. But its possible some  of the other  
information HSBC  gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. This 
includes the fact that she wouldnt have been  given a proportionate refund if she had 
cancelled her policy or repaid her loan early.  But I havent seen any persuasive  evidence 
that Mrs B had any intention of refinancing  her loan early or wouldve paid it off before the 
end of its term. And for the same  reasons I think the PPI was suitable for her, it looks  like the 
policy would have been useful for her if something went wrong.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. But HSBC 
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because : 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Mrs B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Mrs B any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
HSBC should  pay back to Mrs B the extra she paid each month on the loan because  the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mrs B paid if the loan was paid off early. HSBC  should also pay Mrs B 8%* simple  interest  
on the extra paid each month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs B can claim back  the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
Ref: DRN10911603But HSBC  UK Bank plc does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1091160