K821x#15complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Gefion Insurance A/S hasnt  paid him the full market value for a car 
after he claimed on his car insurance policy for its theft.
background
In February 2018  Mr N entered into a lease  agreement  to hire a car. The lease was to run for 
36 months. The vehicle  was stolen in August 2018,  so Mr N claimed  for the loss on his car 
insurance policy.
Mr N was initially unhappy with how long Gefion took to settle the claim. In October 2018 
Gefion said it would  settle the claim  by paying  him the cars  market  value, less the excess. 
And it said that it thought the cars market value was around £34,000. Mr N disputed the 
market value as he said he considered  it to be around £36,000.
Gefion responded  to Mr N and said that, while it had said that it would pay the full market  
value, it was only required to clear the amount outstanding  on the finance agreement  
which was around  £29,000. Mr N disagreed with this and queried where it said in the terms 
of the insurance  policy that Gefions liability was limited to the amount outstanding on the 
finance.
Gefion said that Mr N wasnt  the owner  of the car. And, given he didnt get a right to own the 
car at any point, it said Mr N wasnt entitled to the difference  between  the cars market value 
and the outstanding finance. Mr N still didnt agree and asked  this service to step in.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2020  upholding  this complaint. And I said the 
following:
Gefion says that its only required  to pay the amount outstanding on the finance  because 
Mr N was never going to be the owner  of the car.
I think the key issue  here is what the terms of the insurance policy say if Mr Ns car is lost, 
stolen or damaged. They also say that the most  it will pay will be the market value of the car 
at the time of the loss. And they define  market value  as the cost of replacing  Your  Vehicle 
with another of a similar make, model,  age, mileage and condition  as at the time of the loss.
So under the terms of the policy, Gefion was required to pay Mr N the cost of replacing his 
car. 
The amount  outstanding on the finance  was around £29,000, which  Gefion paid to the lease 
provider, which left around £5,000 outstanding  on the settlement figure. The issue  I have to 
decide is whether  Gefion  was required to pay the balance of this to Mr N. I understand 
Gefions position  that Mr N wasnt entitled  to the full market value of the car as it is a 
fundamental principle  of insurance that a claimant shouldnt  profit  from a contract  of 
insurance.
The terms of the policy say If Your Vehicle is subject to a hire purchase or lease agreement  
and is declared  a total loss, any payments We make will instead  be made to the finance or 
leasing company  as specified on Your contract  with them.
Ref: DRN19874122The terms of the finance agreement dont  limit Gefions liability to the amount required to 
settle the agreement. So I think the strict  interpretation of the policys terms set out that 
Gefion should  have paid the full market value to the finance provider and, under  terms of the 
finance agreement, the finance provider would  refund the difference to Mr N. But I do 
acknowledge that if Mr N received the full £5,000 he would in effect be profiting from the 
insurance claim  given the deposit  he paid for the car was £4,322.07 and he wasnt the 
owner of the car. 
But Mr N has lost out in this claim. When taking out a lease agreement, its common  for the 
consumer to have  to pay a large sum upfront. And where this happens the consumer can 
lose out when  the car is written off early  into the lease agreement, as the initial upfront 
payment is non-refundable. In this case Mr N paid nine months of lease payments up front.  
Mr N has to pay a fixed amount for the lease hire over the lease period. So the size of the 
deposit has a direct impact on the amount that Mr N had to pay in monthly  payments during 
the lease term. Had he paid a smaller upfront payment he wouldve had to pay more in 
monthly repayments over the lease term. This would also mean  that he wouldve  paid less 
towards the total amount  owed over the total lease when the car was stolen. In effect, this 
means that Gefion has had to pay less because of the fact that Mr N paid a larger upfront 
payment.
And I thought that Gefion should do the following to put things  right:
I think  a fair outcome in this case is that Gefion should pay Mr N a proportionate amount of 
the deposit based on how long was still remaining on the lease agreement when the car was 
stolen. To work this out, I think Gefion  should pay the difference between what hes actually 
paid (taking into account  the initial upfront payment) and the pro-rata cost of what the lease 
wouldve cost Mr N up to the date of the incident. To work this out, Ive looked at the 
following:
Mr N took possession  of the car on 5 February  2018 and the contract  was for 36 months 
(1,096 days).
He made  an initial  payment  of £4,322.07 and was then due to make monthly payments 
of £480.23 for the remaining 35 months.
The total cost of the lease over 36 months was £21,130.12.
Cost per day £19.28.
Number of days from start of agreement until the car was stolen  192.
Pro-rata cost of what the lease wouldve cost Mr N  191 x £19.28  = £3,701.63.
Given Mr N only had the car for 192 days out of a total of 1,096 I think  he should only be 
liable for that portion of the lease. 
Mr N had actually paid £7,203.45 towards the agreement by the time the car was stolen. But 
I think the proportionate cost of the agreement for that time was £3,501.82. So I think  Gefion 
should pay the difference (£3,501.82) to Mr N. I also think it should pay 8% simple interest 
per year from the date it settled the claim until he gets it back.
Ref: DRN19874123As I said above, under the terms of the finance Gefion is required to pay any settlement to 
the finance provider. But Im also aware  that the terms of the finance agreement  sets out 
that, if the amount received from an insurance  settlement  exceeds  all sums payable on 
termination, the finance provider will refund the excess to Mr N. So in this case  I think the fair 
and reasonable thing  to do in these circumstances is for Gefion to pay the money payable  to 
Mr N directly.
Gefion didnt respond to my provisional  decision and Mr N said that he didnt have anything 
further to add.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to think about, I see no reason  to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. So I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I intend to uphold  this complaint. And I intend to require 
Gefion Insurance  A/S to pay Mr N £3,501.82.  I also think it should  pay 8% simple  interest  
per year from the date it settled the claim until he gets it back.  If Gefion thinks that its 
required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell 
Mr N how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr N a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1987412