K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her two monthly  
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies in 1999  and 2007 when she applied  for 
a mortgage and a later further advance.
background
Ms C complained to this Service.  Our adjudicator thought the complaint about both policies 
should be rejected.  Ms C disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter  to 
be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
Ive decided the policies were not mis-sold because:
 I think Bank of Scotland made it clear from the separate  PPI application  Ms C 
completed in 1999 and from the type of documents she would  have completed  in 2007 
that she didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she most likely chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
 Bank of Scotland recommended both PPI policies to Ms C so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for her in 1999 and 2007   and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, I think that they were suitable. For example she wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  in either  PPI policy and she seem to have 
had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms C about  PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted the cover in 
1999 and 2007.  And it seems like the policies  would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like they were  affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off from taking out the cover. 
 Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
policy sold in 1999 to Ms C.
But Bank of Scotland will pay back some  of the cost of the 1999 policy to Ms C because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms C about  that. Because  Bank  of Scotland didnt 
tell Ms C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN12663992Ive thought about everything Ms C has said - including  what  shes  said about being  heavily 
influenced to buy PPI; and having savings and relatives to help her make  her repayments. 
But these  points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do about the 1999  PPI policy
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Ms C any commission  and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank  of Scotland should  also pay back  to Ms C any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Bank of Scotland should pay back to Ms C the extra  she paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Bank of Scotland 
should also pay Ms C 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms C can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Unless it has already  done  so, Bank  of Scotland will make arrangements  to pay what  it owes 
Ms C for the 1999 PPI policy now Ive issued  my final decision.
In respect of the PPI policy sold in 2007, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank  of 
Scotland doesnt need to refund everything  Ms C paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has 
already offered to give Ms C back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs to do 
anything more. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint because the PPI policies  were not mis-sold  so Bank of 
Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms C any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium in respect of the PPI policy sold in 1999. If it 
has already made this payment,  it does not need  to pay anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1266399