K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc unfairly cancelled her home  insurance  
policy. 
Mrs M has been represented by her partner, Mr M, in this complaint. For ease of 
understanding I will refer to his comments about the complaint as though she had made 
them. Although as Mr Ms behaviour is central  to this complaint I do also refer directly  to him. 
background
Mrs M made  a claim on her RSA home  insurance  policy. Mr M isnt on the policy but hes 
part of her household. He became involved with the claim, communicating  with RSA on 
Mrs Ms behalf. RSA say he was repeatedly threatening and aggressive towards its staff. So 
for that reason it cancelled the policy.
The cancellation is unfair according  to Mrs M. She says Mr Ms behaviour  is caused by his 
various disabilities.  So she feels RSA breached  equality legislation. She also says it didnt  
make reasonable adjustments for him. And she complains the cancellation is affecting her 
credit rating and the cost of insurance.  So she wants it reversed and records of it deleted.
Mrs M complained to RSA. But it didnt  change its decision. It said it had been  willing  to 
consider evidence to show  the cause of Mr Ms actions was his disabilities.  And it said it had 
also asked to see something to show he didnt pose  a direct threat to its staff.  But it felt it 
hadnt been provided with this. So as Mr M continued to be abusive and threatening to its 
staff it didnt reinstate  the policy.   
Our investigator didnt  think RSAs  decision to cancel Mrs Ms policy  was unreasonable. So 
she didnt ask it do anything differently.  Mrs M didnt accept her view.  So the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
This service previously considered a complaint about Mrs Ms claim. So this decision doesnt  
look at that  it only considers the cancellation of the policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  RSAs 
decision to cancel the policy was unfair or unreasonable. So Im not making it do anything 
differently. 
Mrs Ms policy says RSA can cancel it where its identified serious grounds for doing  so. It 
defines this as the use or threat of violence or aggressive behaviour against its staff, 
contractors or property. 
Ive read notes of calls between Mr M and RSA. Im not going to go into detail about them.  
But Mr M is said to have  repeatedly used  abusive  language and made  threats of violence 
against various RSA staff members. Hes also recorded as threatening its contractor. Mrs M 
hasnt denied Mr M acted in the way RSA say he did. So Im satisfied Mr M did act 
aggressively and threaten  violence repeatedly. So RSA fairly identified  serious  grounds  for 
cancelling the policy.
Ref: DRN15475342The policy also says before cancelling RSA will try to resolve the matter  - but where a 
solution cannot be agreed it may cancel the policy by giving 30 days  notice. RSA agreed 
with Mrs M, as a solution, that it would no longer speak to Mr M by phone. But this didnt 
work. Mr M continued to be involved in telephone  calls. He continued  with the threats  and 
aggression. So it seems RSA tried but failed to find a solution. So RSAs decision to cancel 
was made  in line with the policy terms. And I think its decision was a fair and reasonable 
one. 
It seems  the time from notice to the eventual cancellation wasnt quite 30 days. But I cant 
see that the policy ending a few days earlier than it should have made  any difference. So Im 
not going to say the cancellation  was unreasonable or unfair because the notice was a few 
days short.     
Mr M wasnt a policyholder. But I still think its fair for RSA to cancel Mrs Ms policy because 
of his behaviour.  Hes part of the insured household.  And he seemed to be acting  on her 
behalf during the claim. 
 
Mrs M says Mr Ms behaviour is caused by his various disabilities. She says RSA failed to 
consider that hes a vulnerable adult.  And she feels its breached equality legislation and 
other requirements by treating him unfavourably because of his disability. 
RSA says Mr and Mrs M have failed to show his behaviour was a consquence of his 
disabilities. And it says even if that had been shown, it hasnt breached  equality  legislation.  
It says the cancellation of the policy was a proportionate means of achieving  a legitimate 
aim. With the legitimate aim being  fulfilling its duty of care to protect its staff and agents. So 
it says its treatment of Mr M wasnt discriminatory.  Having considered everything provided, 
including Mr Ms behaviour, the information  about  him and the relevant legislation, I cant  say 
RSAs acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mrs M also says RSA failed to take reasonable adjustments for Mr M . I dont agree. It tried 
to find a solution regarding the phone calls. It suggested a different method of 
communication. It said it would consider reinstating the policy  if it was shown the cause of 
the behaviour  was Mr Ms disabilities and that its staff werent at threat. But it felt it hadnt 
seen enough to change its decision to cancel  the policy. Having seen, what  Mrs M says, was 
sent to RSA I dont  think it acted  unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc do 
anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1547534