K822xcomplaint
Mr C complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled  his car repairs  under his motor 
insurance policy.
background
Mr Cs car was damaged  and Aviva arranged for it to be repaired  by their approved garage.  
Mr C said that their garage took too long to repair it, didnt  keep  him informed about how 
long it would take, and drove his car without his permission. 
Aviva didnt accept fault, but they offered him compensation  of £150 to recognise the delays 
with the garage  and with his complaint. He remained dissatisfied  and so brought his 
complaint to us. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He suggested that 
Aviva should  pay Mr C an additional £100  in compensation. Aviva agreed but Mr C didnt  
think that this was enough and so his complaint has been passed  to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C said as follows. Avivas garage  told him it would take them  about  five days  to repair his 
car, but instead  it took about fifteen working days.  During that time the garage didnt keep 
him updated. And although he phoned  them  they still couldnt tell him how much  longer it 
would take to get his car back. He didnt have  a courtesy car so this affected his family life 
over the period.
Aviva said that the repair time their garage  gave Mr C was only an estimate. And the delay 
was out of their garages control  as it was due to adverse weather conditions, which caused 
them additional work and held up delivery  of the parts. They felt that they had kept Mr C 
informed, by text message.  But they offered him £150 compensation anyway in recognition  
of the delays, and the time taken  to deal with [his] complaint.  
From Avivas  file, I see that they had noted  that Mr C had an alternative  vehicle.  That may be 
why he didnt have  a courtesy  car. But, assuming Mr C did want  a courtesy  car, and there 
was one available,  this was permitted under his policy  and so he could have asked for it. I 
appreciate that he may at first have thought that he would not need a courtesy car for five 
days, but that might have changed as time went on. However he had the right to ask for it at 
any stage and Ive seen nothing persuasive that he did ask for it and Aviva  refused it. So I 
wouldnt hold Aviva responsible for that.
.
Mr C also said that the weather  wasnt bad all throughout the period  that the garage had his 
car. And they shouldnt have been affected  by the weather then as the garage had seen his 
car a few weeks before it went in for the actual  repair,  for them  to assess and order parts  
then if necessary. He felt that the parts were commonly used  parts which should have been 
in stock anyway,  but thats a matter for Avivas commercial judgement  and I dont comment 
on that.  
Ref: DRN11375092Its not unusual  for car repairs to take longer than anticipated, so I dont think  that the time 
the garage took was unreasonable, particularly given the adverse weather conditions.  
However I dont think that Aviva did much to keep Mr C informed of the delays. They  did 
send him three texts  but the first was not particularly informative about  the progress of his 
cars repair. And the other  two texts were both on the day they said he could collect his car, 
so were of little use at that stage. 
He also thought that his car had been driven  without his permission while  in for repair. He 
said that it came back with about  100 more miles on the clock  and significantly  less fuel. But 
the garage wouldnt explain this. He wanted the garage to apologise and tell him who had 
been driving his car and where to. He wanted compensation not just for the fuel used but 
also for the decrease  in his cars value that he felt would result from that higher mileage. 
Aviva didnt believe that their garage  had driven his car, other  than to another site, a round 
trip of about five miles,  for an alignment  check. But they dont have photographic evidence  of 
his cars  mileage before and after the repairs. Mr C has shown us a customer vehicle check  
form dated the day his car went to the garage which shows his mileage was 47235,  and that 
his car had a full tank of petrol. He also shown us photos he says are dated the day he got 
his car back  from the garage.  They  show a mileage of 100 miles higher, and that the fuel 
tank is only three quarters  full. Aviva havent any photos that would contradict that, and I see 
no reason to disbelieve Mr C. 
I can see that he found it stressful to think that his car had been driven without his 
permission. Hes concerned that he might  be deemed liable for things, such as speeding 
tickets or criminal  matters, which might have happened then. And though  I can appreciate  
that Mr C is worried about the possibility that any of those happened, theres been nothing 
so far to suggest  that they did actually happened. I think that if they were to happen he may 
be able to make a further complaint against  Aviva for indemnity and then complain again to 
us if they refuse.   
I can see that Mr C has experienced distress  and frustration at this situation. He felt that 
Avivas offer of compensation of £150 was for their failure to deal with the complaint 
according to their procedures, rather than for the garages actions on his claim. But I dont 
think thats true, and Aviva intend  it to also cover the delays with the garage.
I think the compensation of £150 they offered was a little low. So I agree adjudicators  
suggested settlement  and I think that they should pay him a further £100 compensation, as 
Aviva agreed. I think that takes  into account  any additional mileage incurred whilst his car 
was in the garage, and the fuel cost, but I dont think that an increased mileage of that 
amount would be likely to adversely affect his cars  value. 
Therell always be some  inconvenience when a car has to be repaired. However I think that 
Avivas total compensation of £250  does cover the extra inconvenience  Aviva  caused Mr C 
overall, and so I dont  ask them to do anything more than that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr C £100  in compensation  for his distress and 
inconvenience. This is in addition  to the £150  they have already paid.  
Ref: DRN11375093Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019. 
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Aviva must pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on which  we tell them Mr C 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Aviva consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr C how much they have taken off, and give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1137509