K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the refusal  of a claim made under his mobile phone  insurance 
policy with Great Lakes  Insurance SE.
background
Mr B purchased a new phone on 16 November 2018 and took out the policy with Great  
Lakes on 22 November 2018. Mr B says the phone was going to be a Christmas present  for 
his wife (although  at other times he has said it was to be a gift for himself),  so was not going 
to be opened  or used  until then. 
Mr B says he read the policy and it said the phone  would only be covered if it was being 
used, so he phoned Great Lakes to explain the circumstances and it confirmed that the 
phone would  still be covered. 
On 10 December 2018, Mr B reported the claim to Great Lakes. He says he left the phone 
on a park bench and when  he realised  what he had done and went  back for it, it was gone.  
Mr B told Great Lakes  he had been  carrying the phone with him so that his family didnt see 
it before  Christmas.
Great Lakes refused the claim on the basis that it had not been  used  and fitted with an active 
SIM card, and on the basis Mr B had not taken reasonable  care of the phone.  
Mr B is very unhappy with this and wants the phone replaced. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that the claim should  
be met but did recommend that Great Lakes  refund  the premiums for the policy.  The 
investigator thought  that Mr B would probably  not have taken out the policy with Great Lakes 
if he had known that any such claim would not be covered but he would not have got any 
other policy that would  have  covered  him as they are all similar  wording. The investigator 
therefore recommended that Great Lakes refund the premiums paid plus interest.
 
Great Lakes accepted the investigators assessment but Mr B does not. He wants  the phone 
replaced and says he is still paying  for it. 
As the investigator  has not been  able to resolve  the complaint,  it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms relied on by Great Lakes are common to all mobile phone  insurance polices 
that Im aware of. They  are as follows: 
Important:
Please note that this policy only provides mobile phone cover  where  your mobile  phone  is 
fitted with an active  functioning SIM. In the event of a claim you will be required to produce 
proof of usage from your network provider showing  the handset has been in use since policy  
inception and up to the event giving  rise to the claim.
Ref: DRN15528892
We will not cover  
Any mobile phone claim where the proof  of usage  is not provided 
Any loss, damage  or liability where  your mobile  phone is not fitted with an active  functioning 
SIM or where your network provider cannot verify  the handset has been in use since  policy  
inception and up to the event giving  rise to the claim.
Proof of Usage is defined as , where applicable evidence from your network  provider 
showing your mobile  phone has been  in use since the policy was purchased and up to the 
event giving rise to the claim.
Great Lakes accepts that it spoke to Mr B when he took the policy  out and did say he could  
insure the phone, even if it was not being  used  yet. However, it says this was on the basis  
that an unused  handset  was being kept in a secure place and not being carried  around  but 
in any event it would still require it to have been activated and a SIM card in it. 
However, even if these provisos were not made clear in that phone  call, and Mr B was given 
incorrect information by a representative  of Great Lakes, I do not consider that Great Lakes 
is bound  by that, such that it should be required to disregard clear policy terms and meet  the 
claim. The policy terms are sufficiently clear and are not inherently unreasonable. We would 
expect an insurer to apply  such terms reasonably  but given the phone was purchased some 
weeks before the loss, it would not be unreasonable to expect it to have been activated 
and/or used by the time of the claim. I do not consider it unreasonable  to apply the terms in 
this situation.  
The investigator recommended  that the policy premiums be refunded on the basis Mr B 
would probably  not have  gone ahead with the policy if he had known that a claim such  as 
this would not have been covered  (but couldnt have found another policy  with different 
terms). Great Lakes  has agreed to refund the premiums with interest. I consider this to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to refund the premiums 
paid by Mr B, together with interest  at 8% per annum from the date he paid each premium to 
the date of reimbursement.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1552889