K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that Creation Consumer  Finance  Ltd rejected her claim under Section  75.
background
In August  2018  Miss T purchased a sofa from a retailer and entered into a Fixed Sum Loan 
Agreement with Creation. The term of the agreement was 48 months with monthly 
repayments of £40.43.
When Miss T purchased  the sofa the retailer told her it was made  to order. Miss T provided 
measurements of her living room.
When the sofa was delivered Miss T noticed  it wasnt what  shed  ordered.  The delivery driver 
said he couldnt take it back so Miss T contacted the retailer  who advised her to go into the 
store and choose a different sofa.
When Miss T visited the retailer, it told her it couldnt help and asked her to return  another  
day. Miss T wasnt happy  about this and complained  to Creation.
Creation responded and said it didnt uphold the complaint because Miss T had been offered 
a re-selection.
Miss T wasnt  happy with the response. She cancelled her direct  debit and complained  to 
this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought there had been a breach of contract  
because the wrong  sofa was delivered. She didnt think  the offer of re-selection was 
reasonable because it would take 12 weeks to make and deliver  an alternative sofa.
Creation didnt agree. It provided  information  fro the retailer who said there was no issue 
with the sofa and that the store hadnt made an error  with the order.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to uphold Miss Ts complaint  against Creation, I 
would need to be satisfied that theres  been  a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and 
that Creations response to the claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable.
The relevant  law says that the goods need to be of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and as 
described. If this isnt the case, then a breach  of contract can be said to have occurred.
Miss T says she ordered an L shaped sofa but that a curved  sofa was delivered  which  
wouldnt fit through her door. The retailer has said that it delivered  the sofa that Miss T 
ordered.
Ref: DRN17736092Miss T has said that she provided the measurements of her living  room  to the retailers  at its 
request. This hasnt  been disputed by the retailer. I can also see that after the sofa was 
delivered, the retailer offered Miss T the option to re-select an alternative sofa. I dont  think  
the retailer wouldve  done this if the correct sofa had been delivered.
On balance Im persuaded that the wrong  sofa was delivered. The sofa wasnt  as described 
at the time when  Miss T placed the order, so Im satisfied theres been a breach of contract.
In these circumstances, Id expect the finance  provider to put things right as if the breach 
hadnt occurred.  Creation  has said that the offer made by the retailer  to re-select an 
alternative sofa was reasonable.  I disagree.  The information provided  suggests that an 
alternative sofa would  have  taken  several  weeks to make  and deliver. I dont think  its 
reasonable to expect  Miss T to be without the use of a sofa for this length of time.
Weighing everything up, I think Miss T should  be allowed to cancel the agreement. Shes  
already returned  the incorrect sofa at her own cost. These costs, together with any payments 
shes made under the agreement, should be refunded because she hasnt had any use of 
the sofa.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Creation  Consumer Finance Ltd must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Return all payments made by Miss t under the agreement
Remove any adverse  information relating to the agreement from Miss Ts credit file
Refund Miss Ts costs  of returning the sofa of £80
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1773609