K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Wildwood Wealth Management Limited (WWM)  told him that he could 
take an annual  income of £7,000 (5%)  from a bond it recommended  (including putting it in a 
gift trust) but because of poor performance  he had to stop the income.  He is also concerned 
about the Inheritance Tax (IHT) implications of this.
background
In the course  of various submissions it was suggested that Mr L was advised he could take 
7.5% a year from the bond  but the evidence indicates he was told he could take 5% a year 
of the bonds original  value i.e. £7,000 tax-free. He could continue  to take this sum even 
when the value of the bond fell i.e. if it resulted in withdrawals of more  than 5%.
An adjudicator at this service  felt the recommendations  were  broadly suitable for Mr Ls 
circumstances and objectives. He also said it wasnt responsible for the earlier  equity 
release advice (which  had given rise to the money invested in the bond/trust).
He also said its advice  to stop taking income in 2009  was not unreasonable  given the 
decline in the value of the bond which was undermining its main purpose  (to be passed  on to 
Mr Ls daughter free of tax). The suspension of income allowed the bond to recover its value 
which meant a modest income withdrawal could be resumed. He accepted  this income,  
staying in the bond, potentially affected the overall  tax situation but felt this was, in effect, 
unavoidable.
He said the advisor  couldnt be held responsible for the subsequent legislative changes 
which impacted on the tax position  arising when there is a suspension of income from bonds 
as these had not been  announced at the time of this advice.
Mr L did not agree. He maintained that WWM provided him with IHT advice in the form of 
equity release as well as the subsequent  advice  about where to invest some  of this new 
capital. Subsequent correspondence with a different business  indicated that WWM had 
probably not provided the equity release advice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for the same  reasons.
In relation to the advice to undertake equity release, I recognise  that the available 
information is not conclusive.  But on the balance of probabilities  I dont believe it was WWM 
given the documentation Ive seen.  If new evidence demonstrates that it was WWM Mr L 
would be entitled  to bring a fresh complaint  about this issue.
Overall, I do not believe the advisors original recommendations  regarding  the bond,  the 
mix of funds  and the form of trust  were unreasonable or unsuitable  for Mr Ls 
circumstances. He appears to have  taken account of Mr Ls main  objective to pass  on this 
portion of his assets IHT-free to his daughter, and taken account of the likely overall size of 
his estate.
Ref: DRN11105202On balance, I think it was good advice to suspend income payments given the impact these 
were having  on the value  of the bond (due to poor performance) given Mr Ls primary 
objective, even  though  this might impact on the size of his taxable estate. 
I have considered all of Mr Ls additional points  but I dont believe WWMs  advice or actions 
were unreasonable. Once Mr L had undertaken a substantial equity release (rightly or 
wrongly) this advice  reflected his priorities.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1110520