K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a fee-paying  
packaged bank  account. He says that he wasnt offered  the option of a fee-free account.
background
Mr P opened  a fee-paying Royalties packaged account  on 19 March 2001. The account was 
later downgraded to a fee-free account  in 2009.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  the packaged account had 
been mis-sold. Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we deal with 
packaged bank  account complaints on our website and Ive taken this into account when 
considering this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is 
available and the wider circumstances at the time. Having considered everything that Mr P 
and RBS have  said and provided, I dont  uphold this complaint.  I will explain why.
Its clear that Mr P feels very strongly  about  this complaint, which  Ive thought  about  
carefully. He has explained  that he went into the branch  to open an account and was only 
presented with the option of two fee-paying  packaged accounts. He says that as he didnt 
want a packaged  account, he opted  for the cheaper one which  cost £10 per month.
I accept that this is possible, and also that what Mr P has said is what he genuinely  now 
remembers. But this happened  over 18 years ago, and I need to consider all the evidence  
Ive got in the round to decide what I think is most likely to have been the case.
Mr Ps testimony on this point doesnt  match the evidence that is available. For example, he 
recalls being offered  a Royalties Gold account  and a Platinum account. However, his 
account was opened as a Royalties account  and RBS didnt  offer a packaged account 
described as Platinum  until much later on in 2012   when it launched a Select Platinum  
account. Mr P has also said that he was presented  with an account that cost £10 and a more  
expensive account  and chose to have  the cheaper  account. However based on bank 
statements that RBS has provided, Mr P was initially paying £5 per month  for his account 
and did so for many months after it was opened.  
Of course,  memories fade over time,  and its not surprising if some details become confused. 
But the only evidence  I have to show that the RBS misled Mr P in March  2001 is his 
recollections. And given  that his recollections dont match with what I do know about his 
account and RBS packaged  accounts  at the time,  I think  its just as likely that RBS did 
discuss fee-free accounts with Mr P, which it says it wouldve as part of its sales  process,  but 
he now doesnt remember it doing so. So I dont think  that the testimony is persuasive 
enough to lead me to conclude thats  what  is more likely to have happened. 
Ref: DRN13966122Mr P has pointed  out that he didnt use the benefits of the account. But I think  its likely  that 
Mr P mayve  agreed  to the account  because he was initially  attracted to the benefits it 
offered, but with the benefit of hindsight he now thinks  agreeing to the account to be poor 
value for money.  But that in itself doesnt mean  that RBS was wrong to have sold it to him.
So taking everything into account, on balance, I dont think  RBS mis-sold the packaged 
account to Mr P. I appreciate that this may come  as a disappointment to Mr P, but I hope  I 
have been able to explain my reasons for not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1396612