K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a packaged bank account. She 
says Santander  incorrectly  advised her to take the account and she never  received  a benefit 
from it.
background
Mrs T says that in 2014 she was advised  by a member of staff in branch  to upgrade to the 
123 account. A few years later Mrs T says she was told by another Santander employee that 
the account wasnt useful to her and she was losing money  as a result  of having it. So they 
advised her to go online and open  a 123 lite account. But Mrs T wasnt able to change  her 
account online and instead decided to revert back to the fee-free account shed initially 
opened. 
Mrs T complained to Santander and requested a refund of the monthly fees shed paid for 
the 123 account.  Santander disagreed  with this but did offer to pay Mrs T £30 for the 
inconvenience caused when it gave her incorrect information about  downgrading the 
account online. Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint and didnt feel the 123 account had 
been mis-sold. But he agreed  with Santanders recommendation of £30 compensation for 
giving incorrect information.  Mrs T disagreed with this so the complaint has been passed  to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to decide what to do about  Mrs Ts complaint.
After considering everything available to me, I dont think Santander  mis-sold the 123 
account. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, theres  been a disagreement over how the account was upgraded; whether it was in 
branch or over the internet. Looking at the evidence Santander has provided of its internal 
notes, I think its more  likely the account was upgraded via the internet. Having said this, I 
dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint if the account was opened 
in a branch or if it was mentioned to Mrs T in branch and she then went  online to upgrade it. 
Mrs T first opened a fee-free account  with Santander in November 2008 and had this for six 
years before upgrading it to a fee-paying account. So I think  that when Mrs T agreed to 
upgrade to the 123 account, she was aware  that fee-free accounts were  available  and that 
she didnt have to have the 123 account  if she didnt want  it. So I think  Santander gave     
Mrs T a fair choice when  she agreed  to open the 123 account.   
Mrs T has said she was advised to take out the 123 account, but I dont think this means 
Santander gave  her a personal recommendation for the account  based on her 
circumstances at the time. Instead,  I think its more likely  Mrs T was told about the benefits 
the account came with and agreed to open  the 123 account because  of the potential savings 
she thought she could receive.  
Ref: DRN19419412Because of this, Santander didnt have  to make sure the account  was right for Mrs T. But it 
did have to give her enough  information  so she could decide  if it was right for her. 
At the time of the sale, the 123 account  cost £2 a month and in return  offered tiered cash  
back on council tax and utility bills. It also provided  interest on credit balances over £1,000  
(up to £20,000). To be eligible for these benefits,  Mrs T had to credit at least £500 per month  
and have at least  two direct debits  on the account.
Looking at the statements from when Mrs T opened  the account,  it looks  like she did meet 
the eligibility criteria to receive  the benefits.  Just a few weeks  before the account was 
upgraded, there was a large deposit  made into it, meaning the balance was kept over the 
minimum requirement for interest to be applied for some time after the account  was 
upgraded. Because of this, I think its more likely Mrs T was given enough information about 
the account to know  how to receive  the benefits.
Mrs T has complained that in 2017 she was told the account was costing her more than the 
benefit she was receiving,  so she was losing money as a result.  Looking  at the statements, I 
can see that when  Mrs T first upgraded the account, she was regularly receiving more  credit 
interest on the account than the £2 account  fee. So if Santander did say to Mrs T in 2014 
that the benefits would outweigh the cost,  this looks to be correct information  based on Mrs 
Ts circumstances at the time. 
It seems  that over time, this slowly changed and when  the account  fee was increased to £5 
per month in January 2016,  the monthly account  fee was often  more  than the credit  interest  
she was receiving each  month. But if the benefits no longer outweighed  the cost because 
the monthly account fee had increased  in 2016, this doesnt mean that Santander was wrong 
to have sold it to her in 2014, as the circumstances were different then. 
Santander has provided evidence that it sent Mrs T a letter before the fee was increased to 
inform her of the changes. So Im satisfied  it made  her aware  of this. It was then up to Mrs T 
to make sure the account was still right for her. And if it wasnt, she had the option of 
changing the account to a more suitable one. 
Having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Santander mis-sold the 123 account  
to Mrs T. And I dont  think it needed  to monitor the benefits  she received on the account  to 
make sure it remained  suitable for her. I do agree  that it couldve given her clearer  
information when  she asked to downgrade the account. And I think the £30 it has already 
offered to reflect this is fair in the circumstances. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1941941