K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that BMW  Financial  Services (GB) Limited did not respond appropriately 
when his car had a serious failure.
background
Mr R bought a new car using a Hire Purchase Agreement  from BMW Financial Services in 
March 2017. In October 2018, after 14,500 miles,  it suffered  an engine failure and needed a 
replacement engine. Mr R says he was told this issue had been caused  by a manufacturing 
fault.
Mr R asked BMW  Financial Services to extend his warranty for a fourth  year, compensate  
him for the loss of use of his car for a month and offer a new service pack  from the date of 
installation of the new engine. He also wanted  reassurance that a new engine did not need  
to be notified to the Driver and Vehicle Licensing  Agency (DVLA) and would not affect  the 
Guaranteed Future Value (GFV) of the car in relation to his finance agreement.
BMW Financial Services confirmed that the DVLA did not need informing of the new engine 
and that the GFV remained  unchanged. It also offered  to extend the warranty  for a further 12 
months and agreed  to a partial  refund  of Mr Rs monthly instalment as hed been  provided 
with an inferior replacement vehicle  whilst  his was being repaired. However, it did not agree 
to extend the service  pack.
Mr R says that due to the oil change that happened  when the engine was replaced and 
because the car was off the road for a month,  it was now unlikely hed be able to have the 
second service before  his service pack expired. He considered that to be unfair.  He also 
says that hed received contradictory  information  about whether the new engine  needed  
reporting to the DVLA  and remained concerned about the re-sale  value of the car. Mr R 
added that, as hed now lost confidence in the car, he was considering rejecting it, especially 
as hed already  had other remedial work carried out under  warranty  and there  continued to 
be a rattle which the garage had failed  to identify.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She was satisfied the fault 
was a manufacturing one and was present  at the point of sale. She also found that Mr R did 
need to update the DVLA regarding the engine change and the rattling noise continued 
despite a repair attempt. She considered that had he been  given the correct  information in 
November 2018,  he would have asked to reject the car. Our adjudicator recommended BMW 
Financial Services should cancel the finance  agreement and collect  the car, refund the 
deposit (plus 8% statutory  interest) and £100  of his November payment, pay him £150 for 
the inconvenience, plus £80 to remove his personalised number plate  and it should  amend 
his credit file accordingly.
Mr R responded to say, in summary, that hed also paid for gap insurance and tyre and alloy 
wheel insurance,  as well as a set of winter wheels.
BMW Financial Services responded to say, in summary, that it cant be presumed the fault 
was present at the point of sale and the manufacturers warranty  is provided for exactly  such  
failures. It added that Mr R wasnt out of pocket as a result and although the engine  was 
replaced it was due to a part failure  rather than the total failure of the engine.
Ref: DRN12416122my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold  Mr Rs complaint, I need  to consider whether the car was of satisfactory  
quality at the point of sale and, if it wasnt, whether BMW Financial Services needs to do 
anything more than its already done.
Cars are of satisfactory quality if theyre what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all of the relevant circumstances. In this case, the car was brand new,  so its 
reasonable to expect  it to be fault-free at the point of sale.  Although  the particular issue 
about which Mr R is complaining did not become evident until October 2018, Im satisfied the 
fault was present at the point of sale. I say that because  Mr R was told the issue had been 
caused by a manufacturing issue and the job cards support that. An email says the fault was 
caused due to the bores being out [of] specification and being  too big for engine .
So, having  concluded that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, I now 
need to consider whether  the remedy provided  by BMW Financial Services  was reasonable. 
BMW Financial Services repaired the car (by replacing the engine), offered Mr R a partial 
refund (£200) on his monthly instalment and extended his warranty for 12 months.
But Mr R also wanted his service pack extended and reassurance that he didnt need  to 
inform the DVLA  about  the engine change as he was concerned  about  the future value of 
the car. When he was initially told he wouldnt need to inform the DVLA  he said in an email 
on 19 November 2018: Can you advise why I dont  need to inform the DVLA please?  I just 
want to keep myself right here, and led to believe  an engine  change (because the V5 has 
the engine number recorded) requires them to be notified. Following your reply, if the 
response is still not to my liking,  then I would like to know  the procedure  for rejecting the 
car.
On 5 December  2018, Mr R followed this up with an email saying If the service pack is not 
extended, and/or I do need to contact the DVLA about the work done,  then that significantly 
changes this situation.
Mr R referred  his complaint to this service in January 2019  as he says hed lost confidence 
in the car and was considering rejecting  it. He said that, as well as the replacement  engine, 
hed had other remedial work carried out and the garage had been unable to identify and 
remedy an ongoing rattle  / clicking sound. Mr R says the other remedial  work  was all carried 
out under  warranty  prior to the engine replacement and included  the door seals being 
replaced due to excessive creaking, the rear lights being replaced  due to water ingress, and 
two black chrome exhaust tips replaced  for corrosion. He says the dealership  has failed to 
rectify the rattle so its clear the quality is not what I expected  of the brand, which  has been 
a shock when compared to my two previous BMWs .
On further investigation, it appears Mr R was also given  incorrect  information about  the need  
to notify the DVLA  of the engine change. Given all the circumstances of the case, and the 
emails that I have seen  from the time, I think it is more  likely than not that Mr R would have 
requested to reject the vehicle earlier had he been given the correct information about  the 
DVLA notification at the time.
Ref: DRN12416123Having considered all the issues Mr R had, in addition to the engine  replacement, I cant  
conclude any of them are reasonable to expect within the first 18 months of ownership of a 
new car. I accept the repairs were  covered under  warranty, but I also think  its likely all the 
issues were present at the point of sale. With regards to the rattle  / clicking  sound, Mr R says 
he only noticed it after the door seals were  replaced,  but I find it likely the noise would have 
been evident prior to that but was muted by the creaking. Indeed,  Ive listened to a recording 
of the noise to which  Mr R refers and it can be clearly heard even above the engine  sound.
Mr R says he has requested for the noise to be identified and remedied on at least two 
occasions, but it still persists. I have also seen evidence of an attempted  repair.
So, in conclusion, based on all the circumstances, I consider its fair for Mr R to be entitled to 
reject the car. I acknowledge he says he has incurred costs associated  with the car in the 
meantime, so I have  also considered those  in turn.
Ongoing maintenance costs,  including winter wheel changes
oAs its reasonable  to assume Mr R would have  needed an alternative car if he 
had rejected this car earlier, I dont think its fair for BMW  Financial Services  
to be held accountable for costs that are an integral part of running a car;
Alloy/Tyre  insurance
oI have seen the paperwork which shows Mr R took out a four-year insurance 
on the car which doesnt expire until March 2021. However, Mr R says hes 
made a claim on the insurance which means he cannot now cancel it and get 
a refund. As this was something over which BMW Financial Services  had no 
control, and Mr R was never  going  to be able to claim the refund anyway, I 
cant conclude he is out-of-pocket by now rejecting the car;
Gap Insurance
oMr Rs gap insurance also expires in March  2021. As this is specific to the 
car, Mr R is entitled to cancel it and receive a pro-rata refund. However, there  
is a £35 administrative charge  for this, which I consider should be reimbursed 
by BMW Financial  Services.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited should:
Cancel the finance agreement for the car and collect it, at no cost to Mr R;
Refund the deposit in full (including  any part-exchange allowance), adding  8% simple 
interest a year from the date it was paid, to the date of settlement;
Refund Mr R £200 of his November 2018 payment;
Pay Mr R £150 to recognise the distress  and inconvenience this caused;
Pay Mr R £80 to cover the cost of removing his personalised  plate;
Reimburse Mr R for the £35 charge for cancelling his gap insurance;
Adjust Mr Rs credit  file accordingly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1241612