K820x#14complaint
Mr W, in his capacity as executor for the late Mrs Ws estate, complains that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to make a payment.
background
Mr W has explained that a payment of £85.60 was owed by his late mother Mrs Ws estate 
to a third party. He emailed Barclays on the 15 February 2019 and asked it to make  the 
payment. But it failed to do so, and closed the account.
Barclays acknowledged its mistake  and explained that as the account was now closed Mr W 
would need to contact the third party and make  alternative arrangements to pay the money  
owed. It offered him £100  compensation to apologise  for the inconvenience  caused. And a 
further £85.60 for the payment it had failed to make. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this response so he brought this complaint to our service  on behalf  
of Mrs Ws estate. He said he wants Barclays to stop making mistakes.
Our investigator agreed Barclays had made a mistake here, and acknowledged that Mr W 
had asked it to make the payment a number of times. But he said that our service wasnt  
able to suggest an award of compensation to a representative  as is Mr Ws capacity  in this 
complaint. He also explained that we have limited  powers to tell a business to change its 
processes. But said that he could see Barclays had stated that its process  here was under 
review.
Mr W wasnt satisfied  with this response, so the case has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has accepted  it made a mistake here when  it failed to process the payment from 
the late Mrs Ws estate.  
I appreciate this would  have  been frustrating for Mr W, especially at such  a difficult time. I 
can see he spent time resolving the matter. And I understand this was a stressful experience  
for him. But our investigator was correct  when he explained that in situations like this, our 
service isnt normally able to award compensatory payments for distress and inconvenience 
experienced by representatives. Whilst Mr W has brought this complaint to us, hes done so 
in his capacity  as the executor for the late Mrs Ws estate. It is the estates complaint about 
actions Barclays took (or didnt take) in respect  of the late Mrs Ws account. And thus I can 
only consider the impact  of Barclays actions on the estate  itself.
I appreciate Barclays error  may have caused  the estate a small amount of additional 
administrative work. But in the circumstances I think its offered a reasonable response to 
this complaint. So Ill leave it up to Mr W to decide  if he wants to accept the £85.60,  and the 
additional £100 compensation Barclays has offered him.
Ref: DRN18567262I understand Mr W is upset that Barclays made this mistake, and feels strongly that it needs 
to make changes and not just offer compensation to put things right.  But as our investigator  
explained, its not the role of this service  to punish  a business. Nor do I have the power to 
review Barclays processes or ask it to make  changes  to these. So whilst  Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr W, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further  here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
I leave it up to Mr W to decide if he wants to accept the compensation 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W, on behalf of 
the late Mrs Ws estate,  to accept or reject  my decision before 28 November  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1856726