K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  they were mis-sold  a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs B already had a mortgage when, acting  on L&Gs advice, they re-mortgaged to 
another lender. In doing so they consolidated their unsecured  debt and raised some 
additional funds.
Mr and Mrs B are now advised by a claims management company (CMC) which has 
complained on their behalf.  It says the mortgage wasnt suitable for them  because there 
was no need to consolidate  their debt, unnecessary funds were raised, and the fees charged  
were unfair or unreasonable.
L&G didnt uphold  the complaint about the mortgage advice. Its offered to refund 
commission the broker received for referring them to a solicitor, together  with £100 
compensation, but didnt otherwise uphold the complaint. Our investigator agreed, so the 
CMC asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the advice was unsuitable in this case.  Mr and Mrs B had come to the end of 
their rate with their previous lender.  They also wanted to raise  more funds  meaning  they 
would have had to pay application  and valuation fees even if theyd stayed with their 
previous lender. I dont think it was unreasonable for the broker  to search for a competitive  
rate across  the wider market  especially  as Mr and Mrs B also wanted a more flexible 
mortgage. 
Ive looked at the income and expenditure recorded  in the fact find, and it think  it shows 
Mr and Mrs B were  overstretched already  before  borrowing the extra  funds they wanted. 
They had relatively high unsecured debt, across several loans  and credit  cards.  And their 
expenditure appears low, suggesting  it might  be underestimated. While  consolidating their 
debt would make it more expensive in the long run, I think  that  in this case   Mr and Mrs B 
benefitted from reducing their outgoings in the short  term. Taken  individually,  much of their 
unsecured debt was relatively low value so an argument can be made  and has been  made  
 that each debt,  in isolation, shouldnt have been consolidated. But taking a step back, I 
think the overall pattern of their debts and spending  shows that they were  overstretched,  and 
consolidation gave  them  some  breathing  space  and reduced their monthly  commitments.
I think the offer L&G has made in respect  of the legal  advice is reasonable.  But I dont think it 
needs to refund any of the fees the broker charged. They were  set out to Mr and Mrs B. 
While other  brokers may charge less, or structure their fees differently, I dont think  
Mr and Mrs B were  misled about  what  they would be charged, and they received the service 
theyd paid for. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative says that the mortgage was too big, that too much  was 
borrowed. I dont  think its factored  in that one of the consolidated loans wasnt paid direct  by 
Ref: DRN18811292the solicitors, with the funds paid direct to Mr and Mrs B instead. I dont know whether they 
actually did that, but if they didnt I dont think L&G is responsible for that. But even taking 
that into account, Mr and Mrs B were  left with more money borrowed than theyd asked for, 
which shouldnt have  happened.  However, as this was a flexible  mortgage  they could have 
paid back any funds  they didnt want to avoid  interest.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I think Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited has made a 
reasonable offer to settle this complaint and I dont direct it to take any further action  beyond  
that. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 April 2020.
Simon Pugh  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1881129