K822xComplaint
This complaint is about a two mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) policies taken 
out in 2006. Mr and Mrs J say Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them  the MPPI policies.
Background
Mr and Mrs J were both sold an MPPI policy to cover their joint mortgage in 2006.  They  
applied for their mortgage and MPPI  over the phone. 
When our adjudicator looked  at the complaint, they thought that the policy  sold to Mr J was 
mis-sold  but they also felt that the policy sold to Mrs J wasnt  mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs J accepted  the adjudicators view  but Barclays did not. So the case has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Js case.
Mr Js policy
Ive decided that the policy sold to Mr J was mis-sold  and I uphold this part of the 
complaint because Barclays recommended the MPPI to him, but I dont think  that it was right 
for him.
I say this because  Mr J had treatment for a condition in 1988, which he continued to take 
medication for, and left him prone to illness, which wouldnt  be covered by the policy  so he 
wouldnt have been able to claim for everything he wouldve  expected to.
Barclays disagrees with this. It says that it completed a statement of demands and needs 
with Mr J where he said that he had been symptom free, and not consulted a doctor or 
received treatment in the two years prior to the application. But I dont know  how this 
question was presented to Mr J  or if Barclays made it clear what the implications of not 
answering this question correctly would be. So I still think I should uphold  this part of the 
complaint.
Mrs Js policy
Ive decided this policy wasnt mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mrs J says that the MPPI  wasnt mentioned, and was just added  on without her knowledge. 
But I think Barclays made it clear  that Mrs J didnt have to take out the MPPI and chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this. I say this because  
Barclays has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Js mortgage application, and I can see that the 
MPPI is presented as an optional product and has been selected  Mrs J has signed to 
confirm this, which is separate  to where she has signed for the mortgage with Mr J. 
Ref: DRN19409552Barclays recommended  the MPPI to Mrs J so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. Although 
Mrs J has told us that she suffered  from e medical  condition, shes  also said that this was 
well controlled, and never had to take time off work  and I cant see that she was affected 
by any of the other exclusions  to or limits  on the MPPI cover and she seems  to have had a 
need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs J about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs J has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think her policy  was mis sold.
Ive also thought about whether Barclays needs  to give Mrs J some of the commission she 
paid back. The Supreme  Court ruling  and rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mrs Js mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage  they dont apply. So Barclays doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mrs J paid for the MPPI she had with the mortgage.
What the business should do to put things right
Barclays should put Mr and Mrs W in the position  theyd  be in now if they hadnt taken out 
MPPI policy sold to Mr J. The policy  should  be cancelled, if it hasnt been  cancelled already, 
and Barclays should:
Pay Mr and Mrs J the amount they paid each month for the MPPI sold in 2008
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr J made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, Barclays can take off what they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Barclays  to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr and Mrs J a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN19409553My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js compliant about the MPPI policy  sold to Mrs J.
I do uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint about  the MPPI policy sold to Mr J  Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC should  put things  right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2019. 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1940955