K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about one running  account credit  facility  and eleven  high-cost short  term 
credit loans that Sunny provided  to Mrs B between February 2014 and January 2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Bs complaint and thought that she shouldnt have provided any 
further funds on the running account  credit  facility from the sixth drawdown in September 
2014. She also thought that instalment loans 6 to 11 shouldnt have been  provided to Mrs B 
either. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs B, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mrs B was unlikely  to have been  able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  when it provided Mrs B with her sixth drawdown on her running account 
facility and by the time it provided instalment loan 6. 
Ref: DRN13456032I say this because  by this stage, it ought to have  been  apparent to Sunny  that Mrs Bs use of 
her open-ended facility  suggested that there  was no reasonable  prospect of her clearing the 
balance within the period  of time set out in the agreement, or even a reasonable period of 
time. And it also ought to have been apparent  that Mrs B was relying  on the facility too. 
By the time of loan 6, Mrs B then exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further loans not 
too long after repaying previous ones. And some of them  were  even provided when Mrs B 
already owed Sunny money on existing  loans. Sunny continued lending to Mrs B even when 
this pattern was repeated and in circumstances where it ought  reasonably  to have realised 
that any further loans were more likely  than not unsustainable for her. 
Mrs B had to pay interest and charges on credit that Sunny shouldnt have provided her with. 
So I think that she lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs B paid as a result of the drawdowns provided on 
the running-account credit facility September  2014  as well as all interest,  fees and 
charges paid on instalment loans 6 to 11;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all reference to instalment loans 6 to 11 should  be removed from Mrs Bs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mrs B compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1345603