K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank plc wrongly  debited his account  with more than 
£16,000. He says that he was out of the country  at the time and that he neither carried out 
the transactions himself nor authorised anyone else to do so. Hes also unhappy that HSBC 
closed his account.  
background
Mr H says he lost his debit card on or about  17 September 2018  and ordered a replacement  
the following  day. He also ordered  a new PIN. He received the PIN but not the card and so, 
on 22 September 2018, he went  to a branch of HSBC and re-ordered a new card; again, he 
ordered a PIN at the same  time.  He travelled out of the UK later the same day. 
HSBCs records  dont show that Mr H ordered  a new card with the first PIN, and none was 
sent. But a new card and PIN were ordered on 22 September  and sent to Mr Hs address 
shortly after that. 
Mr H says he was out of the country  from 22 September until 6 October. When he returned, 
he went to a branch  to withdraw money.  He found out that his replacement  card had been 
activated and used to make  a large number  of transactions. He says he has no knowledge of 
those transactions  and couldnt have made them himself, since  he was not in the UK at the 
time and hadnt  received the card or PIN.  
HSBC looked  into what had happened, but said it believed Mr H had made the transactions  
himself or allowed someone else to do so. It noted that the card and PIN had been sent 
separately to Mr Hs home address. The card had been activated, and that required Mr Hs 
date of birth, as well as the card details.  
HSBC also noted  that it had sent a text message  to the number it held for Mr H on the day 
after the disputed  transactions started. It had tried to contact  Mr H by phone, but hadnt been 
able to. It had, however,  received calls in response to the text message,  suggesting  that it 
had been received. In each case, the caller was able to pass security.
When HSBC declined  Mr Hs claim for a refund, he referred his complaint to this service, and 
one of our investigators  considered it. She thought however that it was more likely than not 
that Mr H had authorised  the transactions hes disputing. She didnt recommend that HSBC  
refund the payments; she also didnt think it unfair that HSBC had closed Mr Hs account.  
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings  and asked that they be reviewed by an ombudsman.        
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general principle,  a bank customer is liable for payments, withdrawals  or other  
transactions that they carried out or authorised someone else to carry out. And, generally,  
they wont be liable for transactions  that they didnt  make or authorise someone  else to 
make. There  are exceptions, but the main issue I have to decide in this case  is whether Mr H 
carried out the disputed transactions himself  or allowed  someone  else to do so. 
Ref: DRN15891142The card and PIN used  for the transactions were those ordered  on 22 September.  They 
would have been delivered  on the following day at the very earliest  and most  likely a day 
or two after that. Mr H has provided evidence that he wasnt in the UK between the evening 
of 22 September   and  the morning of 6 October  2018. It follows  therefore that he didnt  carry 
out the transactions himself, since  all of them took place in the UK. He wasnt  in a position  
either to collect the card and PIN when they were  delivered or to use them in the UK in the 
period of the disputed transactions. 
I must therefore consider  since Mr H didnt carry out the transactions  whether he 
authorised someone  else to do so, once theyd collected the card and PIN.
Im satisfied that the transactions  were made using the genuine replacement card and PIN, 
sent on or about  22 September.  They were sent separately  and addressed to Mr H at his 
home address registered on the account.  Mr H has explained that he lives with family 
members and that his house has its own letter-box. Hes also said that post has on 
occasions been delivered to a different address nearby. Its possible therefore that one or 
both pieces of post (the card and the PIN) were  wrongly delivered.  Its also possible that 
someone managed  to intercept one or both pieces of post. However, the card was used with 
the PIN, and I think it unlikely that neither was correctly delivered; its even less likely that the 
same person  was able to collect both. 
The evidence suggests that both the card and PIN were delivered  to the same place, since  
they were used together. Its more likely than not, therefore, that they were  both delivered  to 
Mr Hs home  address. 
Mr H told the bank  that he shares  his home  with family members.  They  would of course have 
been in a position to receive the card and PIN. Its likely too they would have had sufficient 
information about Mr H to be able to activate  the card.  So, they could have been responsible  
for the transactions  and could have used the card and PIN without Mr Hs authority. 
However, shortly after the disputed  transactions started, HSBC tried to contact Mr H about 
them. As Ive indicated, the bank was unable to contact Mr H by phone, but did send him a 
text message. He says he was using a different SIM card while  he was away,  which  is why 
he didnt receive  the calls.  But someone called the bank,  knowing that it had sent a 
message. Whoever  did that must have had Mr Hs phone or SIM card; or they must have 
known that the bank  had sent a text message. They were  also able to pass  security and 
confirmed the transactions as genuine.
I accept that Mr H didnt carry out the transactions himself. I accept too that he didnt receive 
the card and PIN, although I believe they were safely  delivered to his home address. That 
provided an opportunity  to a small number of people  to use them  without his knowledge or 
authority. However,  the person who later called the bank to confirm  the transactions  were 
genuine also had access to Mr Hs phone (or a phone containing his SIM card) and was able 
to answer security questions. It seems likely therefore that the person who had the bank 
card was in contact with Mr H or had his SIM card as well. That indicates to me that Mr H 
knew who that was and had authorised them to use the card and PIN. 
In the circumstances, I dont believe it would be fair to require HSBC to reimburse the disputed 
transactions. Nor can I properly say that HSBC treated Mr H unfairly in closing his account.        
Ref: DRN15891143my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank plc to do anything  further to resolve 
Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1589114