K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Pounds  to Pocket)  lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
May 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms  part of this final decision, so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mr E has said he 
accepts my provisional findings. Pounds to Pocket  has provided us with some  comments.   
Although I am only summarising here what Pounds to Pocket has said,  I have considered  its 
entire response carefully before  writing this decision.
Pounds to Pocket has noted  that I didnt think it reasonable to consider Mr Es financial 
situation had improved before loan 4 was agreed  it disagrees  with this assessment and in 
particular notes that there is no regulatory limits on the number of loans that can be granted  
in a specific period  of time before suggesting any lending has become unsustainable.  It says 
that looking at what Mr E declared  in relation to his other credit commitments across  the 
loans suggests  that his total indebtedness  wasnt increasing. And Pounds  to Pocket  notes 
that it engaged positively  with Mr E when changes to his employment meant he faced 
difficulties paying  his last loan  it says that without  these employment changes  there  would 
have been no reason  for Mr E to face repayment problems.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I remain of the 
opinion that Pounds to Pocket  shouldnt have given the last three loans to Mr E.
I think by that time it should have been clear to Pounds  to Pocket  that it was unlikely that 
Mr E was using his loans  as they were intended   as a short  term solution to a one-off cash  
flow problem. That assessment isnt just based on the number of loans he had held, or the 
time for which he had been borrowing, but on a combination of all the things that 
Pounds to Pocket reasonably should  have known  about Mr Es financial situation.  And I think 
taking all that into account a reasonable lender would have concluded that it was unlikely 
that Mr E would be in a position to repay those loans in a sustainable  manner.
So I uphold the complaint  about loans 4 to 6 and Pounds to Pocket  should  put things right.
putting things right
I dont think Pounds  to Pocket should have agreed  to lend to Mr E after,  and including,  the 
loan that he took on 15 May 2015  (loan 4). So for each of those loans Pounds  to Pocket  
should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Ref: DRN16776652The number of loans  taken from loan 4 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  4 to 6 should be removed from Mr Es credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Pounds to Pocket to take off tax from this interest. 
Pounds to Pocket must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Es complaint and direct  CashEuroNet UK LLC to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16776653EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr E complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading  as Pounds to Pocket) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr E was given six loans  by Pounds to Pocket between May 2013 and March  2017.  Two of the loans 
refinanced previous borrowing, but since those refinances changed both the repayment amount and 
planned end date of the borrowing I think they should  be treated as separate  loans. Each of the loans  
was repayable in either 10, 11 or 12 monthly instalments. Mr E was unable to make all the 
repayments due on his final loan and a balance  remained outstanding when he made  his complaint to 
the lender. A summary  of Mr Es borrowing from Pounds to Pocket is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount
1 13/05/2013 Refinanced £ 1,000
2 23/10/2013 Refinanced £ 1,148
3 05/03/2014 31/01/2015 £ 1,148
4 15/05/2015 29/02/2016 £    650
5 31/03/2016 28/02/2017 £ 1,350
6 14/03/2017 - £ 1,300
Mr Es complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that it had been 
reasonable for Pounds to Pocket to give the first four loans to Mr E. But he didnt think Pounds  
to Pocket should have  agreed to lend the last two loans. So he asked Pounds to Pocket to pay Mr E 
some compensation.  
Pounds to Pocket  didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Pounds to Pocket  needed to take reasonable  steps to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure that Mr E could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. Those checks  could take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Pounds to Pocket should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN16776654the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Pounds to Pocket  was required to establish 
whether Mr E could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending,  and later the Consumer Credit  
Sourcebook (CONC),  define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular 
the customer  should  be able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
Mr Es initial loan was refinanced twice, five months after his first borrowing,  and then four months 
after that. Since he took some additional principal when he refinanced, the revised  repayments he 
needed to make were  higher  than at the time of his initial borrowing. That meant that he repaid his 
initial borrowing over a period of more  than 20 months.
I think  this behaviour should  have caused great concern to Pounds to Pocket.  These were  high cost 
short term loans that would normally be substantially repaid  within a period of 12 months.  But the 
repayments were relatively modest compared to the income Mr E declared. And I cant  see that 
Pounds to Pocket  should  have been aware of any adverse information on Mr Es credit file such as 
defaults or county court judgements. So, on balance, I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate here 
for Pounds to Pocket  to ask Mr E for the amount of information that would be needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable. I dont think Pounds to Pocket was wrong to give these initial  loans to 
Mr E.
But looking  at the overall pattern of Pounds to Pockets lending history with Mr E I think by loan 4 the 
lender should reasonably have  seen  that further lending  was unsustainable,  or otherwise  harmful. 
And so Pounds  to Pocket should have  realised  that it shouldnt provide any further loans. 
I say this because:
Although there  had been a gap of just over three months  between  Mr E repaying  loan 3 and 
asking to borrow again,  I dont think it would have been reasonable  for Pounds to Pocket to 
conclude this was any indication that Mr Es finances had moved on from whatever  situation 
had required  his previous loans. 
By the time Mr E asked for loan 4 hed been borrowing from Pounds  to Pocket  for a lengthy 
period. By then Mr E had paid a considerable amount of interest to Pounds to Pocket  to 
effectively service a debt over an extended period.
Ref: DRN16776655After loan 4 Mr E was provided with a new loan shortly after settling a previous one and the 
amounts he asked to borrow increased  markedly. So Pounds to Pocket ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr Es indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
I think  that Mr E lost out because  Pounds to Pocket continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Es indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Es ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
So Im intending to uphold  the complaint about loans  4 to 6 and Pounds  to Pocket  should put things 
right.
Ref: DRN1677665