complaint
This complaint is brought by the estate  of the late Mr A. The estate is represented  by Mr As 
son. He says Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) sold his father a standard annuity 
when he would have  been eligible for an enhanced  annuity due to medical conditions he had 
at the time.
background
Mr A called Scottish Equitable in January 2008  and requested retirement quotes which were 
sent to him about a week later and included various annuity options with Scottish  Equitable. 
Mr A had protected rights (PR) and non-protected  rights (NPR)  benefits.  He completed the 
relevant forms and chose  to take maximum tax-free  cash payments and annuities  for both 
his PR and NPR benefits. He chose  single life annuities with a five-year  guarantee period, 
no escalation and paid monthly in advance.
Mr A passed  away in March 2018.  His son raised a complaint as he thinks his father was 
mis-sold his annuities. He says he was suffering from severe  medical conditions at the time 
of the sale which would  have made him eligible for enhanced annuities.  He says Scottish 
Equitable should have  asked him about his health  and not sold him standard  annuities.
Scottish Equitable  rejected the complaint. They say they didnt advise Mr A on his retirement 
options. They gave  him information about  the retirement options they could offer and 
recommended he took independent financial advice as other providers  might  be able to offer 
other annuity products and rates. Scottish Equitable  didnt offer enhanced annuities  
themselves.
Mr As son referred the complaint to this service. One of our investigators  thought  the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. He agreed that Mr As annuity sale was non-advised and that 
Scottish Equitable  only had to give Mr A clear,  fair and non-misleading information about his 
retirement options. He considered a template letter Scottish Equitable  had provided which 
they say was included with every  retirement  options  pack. It explained the option to buy an 
annuity on the open market with a different provider who might  be able to offer a higher rate 
and also provided  information on the availability of enhanced annuities if someone suffered 
from ill health.
The investigator thought Scottish Equitable had given Mr A all the required information he 
needed to make an informed choice. He didnt think Scottish Equitable had treated Mr A 
unfairly or had mis-sold him his annuity.
Mr As son disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
K821x#15
Ref: DRN1699063my findings
I previously issued a provisional  decision in which I upheld this complaint. I said:
Based on the documents I have  seen Im satisfied  that this was a non-advised sale. Mr A 
asked for retirement  options from his pension provider and was sent a letter with options to 
choose from which he did by completing  a form. He indicated  on the form that no financial 
adviser was involved  in the transaction.
As no advice  was given,  Scottish Equitable didnt have to ensure that the retirement option 
chosen by Mr A was right for his circumstances. So they didnt have to ask him about his 
health or make sure he was buying  the most suitable product.  However,  they did have to 
give him information about his option to shop around  on the open market and that this might  
lead to a higher income. They also had to explain  about the availability of enhanced and 
impaired life annuities  and that ill health  or lifestyle conditions could make someone eligible 
for a higher  annuity rate.
Scottish Equitable  say all this information  was provided in the accompanying letter which  
was sent out with every retirement  options  pack.  They explained that personalised copies of 
this letter  werent  stored  on file, but provided a template letter  that they say was used. The 
template was dated January 2009 which postdates Mr As sale,  however Scottish  Equitable 
say they are sure previous letters would have  been  very similar  and would have included  
information about the open market options and enhanced annuities.
Its likely  that standard letters would have  been sent out with each retirement  pack, so Id 
probably have  accepted  a template letter  in this case. And I consider the information in the 
letter provided would have been sufficiently  clear about the option to buy an annuity on the 
open market which might provide a higher income and the existence  of enhanced and 
impaired life annuities.
However, the template letter provided  was issued a year after Mr A was sold his annuity, so I 
cant say this is the letter he likely would have received. I appreciate Scottish  Equitables 
reassurances that earlier letters  would have been  very similar, however  without  further 
evidence that this is the case (for example earlier templates,  key facts documents predating  
2008 etc) I cant fairly say that on balance this is the case.
The regulators rules and industry guidance  on information that needed to be provided  about 
the open market option  and enhanced annuities changed over the years. In November 2007 
the regulator introduced the Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (COBS) and firms  were  
required to send out the regulators factsheet Your pension-its time to choose or a written 
statement that gave  materially the same information.  And in July 2008 the regulator had 
completed a review into the sales of annuities which concluded that many firms  information  
on the open market option and its possible advantages to customers  didnt meet the 
regulators requirements. This had contributed to customers not shopping  around  and simply 
buying their annuity  with their existing provider. Firms were requested to improve  their 
literature by the end of 2008.
It might be that Scottish Equitables literature  was already meeting the required standards by 
the time Mr A bought  his annuity. However,  they havent been able to evidence  this. And 
given the regulators  activity around  these  subjects in 2007/2008 I think theres a strong  
possibility that the information  Mr A received in January 2008 did include different and 
potentially less clear  information than the 2009  letter.
Ref: DRN1699063Scottish Equitable  says its up to Mr As son to provide evidence  that his father wasnt given 
information about the open market option and enhanced annuities.  However,  I disagree.  Its 
unreasonable to expect  Mr As son to prove a negative. I appreciate the sale happened quite 
a few years  ago, however I would still expect Scottish Equitable to be able to demonstrate 
what general information customers would have been provided with at the time, especially  
given the regulators  interest in non-advised  annuity sales  and the information given by 
providers over the years.
Based on the information I have Im not satisfied that Mr A was more likely than not given all 
the information he needed to make an informed choice about  his retirement benefits.
Of course Im mindful its possible  that even if Mr A had received all the relevant information 
he still might  have  decided to take an annuity with Scottish Equitable. He might have thought 
it was easier or quicker that way. Unfortunately, we cant ask Mr A about this as hes passed 
away. However, I think on balance if the open  market option and the existence of enhanced 
annuities with the possibility of a higher  income had been properly explained in the 
paperwork he received,  he more likely than not would have considered options with other 
providers for the chance of a higher income.
This service has got access  to historic annuity rates  and looking at the relevant standard  
rates available in 2008, Scottish  Equitable rates were above average,  so if Mr A wasnt 
eligible for an enhanced annuity I think its likely  he would have taken his annuity  with 
Scottish Equitable  even  if he had shopped  around. In this case theres nothing else Scottish  
Equitable would have to do. However, if Mr A was suffering  from ill health  at the point of 
sale, he possibly could  have received  a higher  income.
Mr As son has said his father was suffering from severe medical  conditions  in 2008-the 
same that caused his death 10 years later and which are recorded on the death  certificate.  
Given the particular  causes of death  recorded on the death certificate I find this plausible.
In order to establish Mr As health  conditions in January  2008,  Mr A should provide his 
fathers relevant  medical records. If this shows he did suffer  from health  conditions in 
January 2008  that would have likely made him eligible for an enhanced annuity Im intending 
to ask Scottish Equitable to proceed  as set out below under putting things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr As son agreed with the outcome. He contacted the NHS  for his fathers medical records,  
but due to a filing error  by the GP practice the records  arent listed on the NHS register.  I 
understand an internal investigation  is ongoing, however in the meantime the GP practice 
was able to confirm that Mr A was diagnosed with Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease  
(COPD) in 2005. COPD is also mentioned  under cause of death on Mr As death certificate. 
I consider this sufficient  evidence that Mr A had this condition when he took out his annuity 
and likely he would have  been eligible for an enhanced annuity.
Mr As GP says he was diagnosed with two further conditions in 2013 and 2014. However, 
this was after Mr A bought  his annuity.  Mr As son says his father suffered symptoms  for 
these conditions several years before they were diagnosed. But I wouldnt expect Scottish 
Equitable to take these into account  as I think its unlikely these wouldve been considered 
by annuity providers without a diagnosis  at the time.
Ref: DRN1699063Scottish Equitable  disagreed with my decision and provided further information. In summary 
they said:
The sale happened a long time ago. Its unfair  to draw adverse  inferences because 
Scottish Equitable  cant provide certain  documentation. They  note no such  adverse 
inference is drawn from Mr As estate not providing  this documentation or Mr A not 
complaining in the ten years before his death.  Its not reasonable to conclude the 
2008 documentation was deficient  just because it is absent from their files.
In the review  report about annuity sales in 2008, the regulator said 60% of annuity 
providers offered appropriate options. Its unclear why Scottish Equitable would be in 
the other 40%.
In 2017 the regulator asked Scottish  Equitable to undertake  a thematic  review  of their 
annuity book.  As part of this review they were asked to report  on whether customers 
were told about  the option to shop around  and the availability of enhanced annuities. 
They considered  records from July 2008  onwards.
The report  stated that "Initially the messaging around shopping around and 
enhanced annuities was achieved through including the FSA factsheets. Prior  to 
November 2009  the process  was that these leaflets were inserted in the quotes and 
packs for automated  and manual cases."
Providing the factsheets was seen as seen as sufficient and the thematic review 
supports that Scottish Equitable was following this practice. This doesnt support the 
conclusion that they werent  providing customers with the required  information.
Theres no evidence  to show whether Mr A considered  different quotes  with different 
providers in January  2008. Its equally possible that he did contact other providers or 
decided not to make these enquiries.
It would be more  appropriate to come  to a conclusion about what  Mr A more  likely 
than not would have done once quotes are received from other providers. Once its 
known what income would have been available to Mr A at the time, it can then be 
considered whether  the offer of an enhanced annuity was sufficiently greater  in order 
for Mr A to make the effort to move  elsewhere.
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I carefully considered the additional 
information and comments  Scottish  Equitable provided. However, I still think  my original 
decision is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that the sale happened a long time ago. However, theres no indication  that 
Mr A ought  to have  been aware  that he had cause for complaint  before he died and his 
estate brought  the complaint about  a year after his death. So I think the complaint was 
brought within the applicable time limits and after an investigator  explained this to Scottish 
Equitable, they accepted this finding  and consented  to us considering the merits.
The fact that Mr A didnt  complain during  his lifetime doesnt mean he was given all the 
relevant information  in 2008. I considered that Mr A did have a serious medical  condition  and 
if he had been  given clear information to say that by shopping around he could  achieve  a
Ref: DRN1699063higher income  and that enhanced annuities were available for people with medical  
conditions, I think he more likely than not would have done  this.
Its true that we dont know whether Mr A shopped  around or not. However, Ive considered 
the quick turn around time between Mr A being  sent retirement options and him signing  the 
instruction forms which makes it more likely that he didnt  look elsewhere. Also, if he did 
shop around and an enhanced income  was available  I think on balance  Mr A would have 
chosen it. I can see Scottish Equitables argument that if the difference was minor, Mr A 
might have still chosen to stick with them  for convenience. But given that his income  was 
relatively low I think  on balance Mr A would have changed providers if the income was 
higher elsewhere.
So based  on the above considerations,  it seems  more likely than not Mr A didnt  receive 
clear information about shopping around and enhanced annuities.
I then looked at the information Mr A was given in 2008. Scottish Equitable says any 
bespoke letters would  have  been scanned onto Mr As file. So in the absence  of this they 
assume a standard templated letter would have been sent.  I do understand that other than 
the actual quotation no accompanying information from 2008 is available  -neither Mr As 
estate nor Scottish Equitable can provide it. This isnt unusual after such  a long time. For this 
reason I was willing to accept any template  letters or other  evidence  showing that in January 
2008 Scottish Equitable routinely included information about  the open  market option and 
enhanced annuities in their annuity  packs.  If this was the case,  although theoretically the 
leaflet could have  erroneously not been included in Mr As specific  annuity pack, I think on 
balance it would  have been more likely  than not Mr A would have  received it this information.
I also agree  with Scottish Equitable that including the regulators factsheet Your  pension- 
its time to choose  would have been  sufficient to meet  the requirements as set out in COBS  
in November 2007. However,  given the evidence provided, I cant  fairly say its more likely 
than not Scottish  Equitable was sending  out the factsheets in January 2008 or that
Mr A received adequate information  in a different format.
The thematic review report from 2017  stated  that prior to November 2009  Scottish  Equitable 
were sending out factsheets.  However  its not clear exactly when they started  doing  this.
I noted that their template letter from January 2009  doesnt refer to the factsheet and in 
response Scottish Equitable stated that the temporary measure  of using the fact sheet had 
been superseded by templated letters which were tailored to the customer.  However, a 
standard paragraph was included in all template letters which was If you have health  
problems which threaten to reduce  your lifespan, or if youre overweight or smoke  regularly  
then shopping  around for an enhanced  life or impaired annuity could be particularly 
beneficial as these  annuities could provide a higher retirement income.
Cases from July 2008 had been  reviewed  and showed a fact sheet was used then. Scottish 
Equitable says its likely they implemented a process of attaching  the factsheet with their old 
templates at some point  after November 2007  until they started  issuing new templates in 
January 2009  which  included  the appropriate wording (see paragraph quoted  above).  I have 
no reason to doubt that this is what happened. However, its still not clear when Scottish 
Equitable started  sending  the factsheets.
I considered that the regulator  found  in the 2008 annuity review  60% of businesses provided 
appropriate information to customers. I dont know whether Scottish  Equitable fell into this 
category or whether  they were part of the significant  proportion of firms who were  asked  to
Ref: DRN1699063improve their literature.  Ive taken into account that their 2017 thematic review indicated  
that in July 2008 they were using  the factsheet  to inform customers. So I appreciate  
theres the possibility  that Scottish Equitable were  also providing the leaflet in January  
2008 with every annuity quotation. But I think theres not enough to say this is more  likely 
on a balance of probabilities.
In summary,  Scottish Equitable havent been  able to show sufficient evidence in my 
opinion that Mr A more  likely than not received adequate information  about the open 
market option  and enhanced annuities. Taken  together  with the fact that Mr A opted for a 
standard annuity instead of shopping around  for an enhanced annuity despite  having a 
serious medical condition  I think its more  likely  than not he didnt receive the right 
information.
putting things right
Even if Mr A had used  the open  market  option to find an enhanced annuity  rate I dont 
know what annuity he would have ended up with. Scottish Equitable  should ask at least 
two major pension providers who were  offering  enhanced annuities in January 2008 for 
historic quotes they would have offered to Mr A taking into account his COPD  diagnosis 
and any other relevant  factors.
If Scottish  Equitable requires further documentation  to ask for quotes from different 
providers, for example  a medical  questionnaire,  they should request this from Mr As 
son.
The average of these annuity  rates should be assumed as the rate Mr A could 
have received.
Scottish Equitable  should then:
Calculate  the net annuity payments  Mr A would have received from the average of 
the open market enhanced annuity rates based  on his circumstances. This should 
be in the same format  as the existing annuities  (single life, five-year  guarantee 
period, no escalation). In working out the net payments, Scottish Equitable  should  
assume Mr A to have  been a 20% rate tax payer.
Compare this with what he actually received each month from the time his took 
his annuities in 2008 until his death  in March 2018.
If there  is a loss, roll up the differences in the amounts each month  to the date of 
this decision together  with 8% per year simple interest* from the date each 
payment would have  been made  and pay this to Mr As estate (which is Mr As 
son).
*Interest is subject to income tax
K820x#14
Ref: DRN1699063my final decision
My decision  is to uphold  Mr As estates complaint and ask Scottish  Equitable Plc 
(trading as Aegon) to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the representative 
of Mr As estate to accept  or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
7
Ref: DRN1699063