K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc sent letters  that threatened to 
suspend their personal bank accounts because of customer due diligence  (CDD)  checks  that 
were being  required  on their business bank  account.
Background
Mr and Mrs T are both directors  of company T. They hold personal  accounts with Natwest as 
well as dealing with company Ts business  banking with Natwest.
On 29 August 2018 Natwest  sent letters to company T requesting information on company 
shareholders in order to carry out CDD checks.  These letters explained that the information 
was needed in order to avoid future interruptions with personal and business banking  
services. The letters contained a reference to frequently asked questions  (FAQs). In the 
first FAQ (What regulations are we obliged  to comply with?)  the letter references The Money 
Laundering, Terrorist  Financing  and Transfer  of Funds (Information on the Payer)  
Regulations 2017 (MLR). The letter provided a link to the full Regulations online.
Mr and Mrs T stated  that they found  this letter threatening  and that it caused concern that 
their personal bank accounts  with Natwest would be affected. Mr T states  he then spent time 
reading the referenced MLR to find out whether  the checks  were required. Mr T established  
that MLR  required CDD checks on shareholders with more  than a 25% share  of a company. 
Mr T explained to Natwest that company Ts shareholders  only had a 25% share and 
therefore MLR did not require them to be verified.  Mr T wrote to Natwest on 4 September to 
make this point and made it on the phone as well in a call that occurred on 11 September.
Mr T explained that the worry  he was caused, at the threat of an interruption  to his personal 
as well as business  banking, meant  that he spent over 200 hours  in time reading the 
relevant legislation and contacting Natwest to deal with the matter.
Mr T also explained that at the beginning of September  2018  he was in the middle  of a 
house purchase and needed to get money transferred to a solicitor. Mr T explained  that 
because of the concern he was caused  he felt compelled to go to a Natwest branch and 
arrange a CHAPS payment to his solicitor  earlier than necessary. He feels the fee for that as 
well as incidental expenses and inconvenience,  is Natwests fault.
In response to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, Natwest agreed that the information they had 
provided was misleading and apologised for that. Natwest accepted that the standard letter  
format was incorrect in this case as MLR did not require the information it requested. They  
stated that they did not think they were  responsible  for the number of hours Mr T had 
decided to invest in researching the legislation though. 
Natwest offered £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience they caused
Mr and Mrs T.
Our investigator did not feel that the letters from Natwest were threatening but felt that more 
could have been done to let Mr and Mrs T know that their personal accounts would not be 
affected. He did not feel that it was reasonable to hold Natwest  responsible for the decision 
to conduct the CHAPS  transfer on 6 September.  He felt that the offer of £500 for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused was fair.
Ref: DRN16620532My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Natwest have acknowledged  that the shareholders were not Beneficial Owners  as defined in 
MLR, and have accepted that the reference  in the standard letter  was not correct in this 
case.
Mr T decided to spend time checking the quoted  legislation and he found that MLR did not 
account for why he was being asked for the information. The correspondence from Mr T 
illustrated that MLR had been referred to in depth in order to identify Natwests  error. 
Natwest have accepted this. Natwest have offered the explanation that the letters are 
standard, but I do not accept that this removes the need for information contained to be 
accurate. There has been an impact  in this case because of the confusion over this.
Mr and Mrs T state that they suffered a financial impact in having  to conduct the CHAPS 
transfer when  they did. In a phone call Mr T had with Natwest  on 11 September, he said that 
the letter he received on 6 September came two days before  he was meant to make a 
payment of forty-odd thousand pounds to a solicitor. That he made the transfer on 6 
September on the day that he received the letter makes it likely this was an immediate  
response to that letter as Mr T said.
Based on what Mr T said in the call, the payment was going to be required within  a few days  
anyway. The letter on 6 September  gave  a deadline  of 8 October to carry out what  Natwest 
were asking. There was over a month to address the issues in the letter before there may 
have been any consequences. I dont think it is fair to say that this letter  made it necessary 
to conduct the CHAPS  transfer so urgently, or led to the costs Mr and Mrs T incurred.
Mr and Mrs T say they found  the tone of the letter threatening.  The tone is firm and whilst  it 
does say that restrictions will be placed on their accounts, it is also clear that this would only 
be in response to a failure to provide the information needed. I would expect such  a letter to 
set out the consequences  clearly and its tone to underline the serious nature of the request. I 
do not consider  the banks letter oversteps that standard. I do not think  it is fair for Natwest  
to pay for the cost of a CHAPS transfer Mr and Mrs T would in any event have  made two 
days later.
Mr T stated in his complaint that he wants to be compensated for the time he spent in 
dealing with this. He states  he invested over 200 hours of his time. That is broadly  equivalent  
to five weeks full-time work. I do not consider the issue at the core of this dispute  places  
Natwest under any obligation to compensate Mr T for the amount of time he chose to spend 
dealing with matters.
In the phone call with Natwest on 11 September Mr T explains that he is reluctant to provide 
personal information if it is not necessary.  I think that his reluctance in complying with the 
request, and the difficulty in doing so in the case of one of the shareholders (who was 
unavailable), made him look at the legal requirement  himself. The fact that the reference  was 
incorrect did not cause  Mr T to research the matter. Rather, the fact that he researched  the 
matter is the reason the error was discovered.  I dont  question the amount of time Mr T 
spent, but feel that this was a matter of choice rather than necessity.
The fact that it took some  time for Natwest to clarify the potential impact  on their personal  
banking did cause Mr and Mrs T worry about access to their money. On 11 September  Mr T 
Ref: DRN16620533was reassured  on the phone that there would be no action  on their accounts  whilst the 
issues he raised were looked  into. This was also followed up with written reassurance  as 
well.
I think that the confusion over CDD checks on the business account, and the possibility of it 
affecting personal accounts  caused Mr and Mrs T unnecessary worry and inconvenience.  I 
think this was mitigated  though by reassurances that there would be no action on their 
accounts whilst the points Mr T raised were considered. This reassurance  was provided by 
11 September. At no time was there  any impact  on their personal accounts. Natwest have  
made an offer of £500  to compensate them the distress and inconvenience caused by this. 
They have said that the offer still stands. I do not consider Mr and Mrs T have offered any 
persuasive basis for me to require the bank to increase  its proposal.
My final decision
As I have said, National Westminster Bank Plc has made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs T £500 
compensation. I am satisfied the bank  doesnt need to do anything further. My decision is 
that National Westminster  Bank  Plc pay Mr and Mrs T the £500 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused if it has not already done  so 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1662053