K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ws complained  that AA Underwriting Insurance Company  Limited  unfairly avoided her 
policy because she didnt  tell it about a claim shed  made against a previous policy.  
background
In 2016 Mrs W said she gently bumped into the car behind. She let her insurer know  about  
the accident but wasnt sure if the other driver was going to claim. Mrs W accepted  she was 
to blame and her insurer emailed her to say they would be holding her responsible  and 
would have to settle any claim that was made. A short while  later Mrs W contacted her 
insurer to let them know the other  drivers insurer had asked her to alert them. Mrs W 
thought her insurer was going get back in touch  if a claim was made.
In 2018 Mrs W bought a new policy with AA through an aggregator  website. The following 
week AA told her it was avoiding her policy (which  means it cancelled  it from the start as 
though it never existed) because she hadnt declared two claims when buying the policy.  AA 
said it had asked her have you had any accidents,  claims or losses  in the past 5 years, no 
matter who was at fault or if a claim was made.  It said Mrs W should  have answered yes to 
this instead of no. It said if Mrs W had answered  the question  correctly it wouldnt have sold 
her the policy. 
Mrs W didnt think shed made  any claims  and contacted her previous insurer.  That insurer 
accepted theyd wrongly recorded one windscreen  claim as a fault claim but said theyd 
settled the claim against Mrs W from 2016.  
Mrs W brought complaints  to us about her previous insurer and AA. She said shed 
answered the question to the best of her knowledge  and didnt  know  about the claim. 
Our investigator looked into things and didnt recommend Mrs Ws complaint be upheld. She 
thought Mrs W had made a careless  misrepresentation  when  buying  her policy with AA. And 
AA had acted  reasonably  by avoiding her policy as it wouldnt have covered her if shed 
answered the question correctly.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said it was unreasonable for her to recall  the incident  because it 
was so minor.  She said shed interpreted the question to mean something more serious. She 
also said if her previous insurer had provided more information shed have known  about  the 
claim. She asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
When she bought  her policy Mrs W had a responsibility - under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) - to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation. And for AA to take any action  at all, it needs  to show she didnt do this 
and that she made whats described  as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of things that need to be considered when deciding  whether a 
consumer failed to take reasonable care. The aggregator website asked have you had any 
Ref: DRN15513192accidents, claims or losses in the past 5 years, no matter  who was at fault or if a claim was 
made. Im satisfied this was a clear  question and Mrs W answered no as this is shown on 
her statement of insurance and she said she didnt know about the claim.
Ive issued a separate  decision about  Mrs Ws complaint against her previous insurer.  In that 
decision I didnt hold that insurer responsible for Mrs W not remembering the claim. Ive seen 
a copy of the no claims discount  letter  that insurer sent Mrs W before she bought her policy 
with AA. And that set out the claims against the policy. 
Mrs W said she interpreted the question to mean  more serious accidents or where a claim  
had been made. But thats not what the question asked and Im satisfied its a clear  question.  
Mrs W accepted there has been  an accident where her car had bumped into the other  one. 
And she notified her previous insurer of this. Im satisfied Mrs W should reasonably have 
known there  was a claim. But even if I accepted she didnt know about  the claim I still dont 
think she took reasonable care when answering the question as there  had been  an accident 
in the last five years.
In view of this, I think Mrs W failed to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. 
But to show Mrs Ws misrepresentation  was a qualifying one, under CIDRA AA needs  to 
show it would either not have  offered  the policy at all if Mrs W hadnt made the 
misrepresentation or that it would have  offered  it on different terms. 
AA has shown that it wouldnt have sold Mrs W a policy if she hadnt made a 
misrepresentation. So Im satisfied there  was a qualifying misrepresentation. A qualifying  
misrepresentation is considered either  deliberate or reckless or careless.  AA has accepted 
Mrs W made a careless misrepresentation. I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances as I accept  she didnt intend to answer incorrectly. 
Where an insurer wouldnt  have offered a policy  if there hadnt been a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer  has the option  under CIDRA - to avoid  the policy and refund 
the premium. I understand AA avoided Mrs Ws policy and refunded her premium.
I understand Mrs Ws frustration at whats happened  because  she didnt intend to make a 
misrepresentation. But Im satisfied  AA has acted fairly and reasonably when avoiding her 
policy because it wouldnt have sold her the policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before18 February  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN1551319