K821x#15complaint
Mr S, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  that CashEuroNet  
UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  provided loans to him that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Based on the information provide, Mr S took out four loans with QuickQuid between 
November 2008  and September 2009.
Loan Date Amount Repaid 
1 7 Nov 2008 £225 29 Dec 2008
2 2 Jan 2009 £475 20 Feb 2009
3 25 Feb 2009 £475 14 Aug 2009
4 18 Sep 2009 £500 outstanding
Mr S says that the loans trapped him in a spiral of debt with the cost of the repayments 
meaning he had to borrow again to meet his regular expenses. He says that his credit  file 
would have shown  he was having issues managing his finances  and that QuickQuid should 
have realised from his missed payments that his debt problems  were  getting worse.
QuickQuid says that the loans were taken out more than six years before Mr S raised his 
complaint and so were  out of jurisdiction  for this service.  It says Mr S would have  been  
reasonably aware  of any issues  at the time of the loans.
Our adjudicator said that although Mr S raised  his complaint more than six years after the 
loans had been provided, there was nothing to suggest that he knew, or he should really 
have known, he had reason to complain more than three years  ago. Because of this she 
considered all of the loans.
Our adjudicator said she hadnt seen enough to say that it was unfair  that the first loan was 
provided. But loans  two to four shouldnt have been  lent to Mr S. She said the repayments 
due for loan two were  substantial compared  to Mr S income  meaning he would have had 
very little left over and there was a significant risk that he wouldnt have been able to meet 
his existing commitments without having to borrow again.
By loan four our adjudicator though that Mr S overall pattern  of borrowing suggested he had 
become persistently reliant on short-term loans  and was having problems managing his 
money. 
QuickQuid didnt accept  our adjudicators view. It said no evidence had been  provided to 
show the loans  provided had a detrimental impact  on Mr S financial position. It noted that 
Mr S had a break of 35 days between repaying loan three and taking out loan four.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Ref: DRN15770232QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans  - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
At the time these loans  were provided  the relevant  guidance was provided  by the Office of 
Fair trading (OFT) and this set out the need to make  a reasonable assessment of whether a 
borrower can afford to meet repayments in a sustainable manner. This refers to issues  such  
as being able to the make the repayments without undue difficulties throughout the life of the 
agreement and without  having to realise  security or assets. It then further  sets out that 
without undue difficulty means without having  to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint.
QuickQuid raised the issue of jurisdiction. The loans were provided more than six years  
before Mr S raised his complaint. However as our adjudicator explained the rules regarding 
the timing of complaints allows us to consider complaints that are brought  more  than six 
years after the event complained of but within three  years of the consumer becoming aware, 
or ought be reasonably aware  of the cause for complaint. I have nothing  to suggest that Mr S 
was aware he had cause to complain more than three years before he brought his complaint 
and as this hasnt been disputed by QuickQuid I have considered the merits of his complaint.
Before the loans were  provided information  about  Mr S income was gathered  and credit 
checks undertaken. I do not have anything to show information about his expenses was 
gathered and I think it would have been reasonable for this to have been assessed. Mr S 
has provided some information  about  his expenses in his complaint however I havent  seen  
copies of his bank statements from the time.
Ref: DRN15770233Looking at the repayment amount for the first loan and without further evidence to support 
Mr S expenses from the time I do not find that I have enough to say this loan shouldnt  have 
been provided.
The second  loan was for a larger amount, £475,  with the highest repayment being for just 
under £600.  This was more than 50% of Mr S monthly income  and I think  this should have 
raised concerns  about how sustainably affordable it was. Mr S has explained he had housing  
and other  costs as well as other credit commitments at the time and I think  given the size of 
the repayment compared to his income,  QuickQuid should have realised this loan wasnt 
sustainably affordable.
Loan three was for the same amount as loan two and was taken  out five days after loan two 
was repaid. As with loan two, I think  the size of the repayment compared  to Mr S income  
suggested this loan wasnt sustainably affordable. I also note that Mr S had incurred a late 
fee on loan two further supporting the concern that he was struggling  to manage his money.
By the time the fourth loan was provided, Mr S overall pattern of borrowing suggested he 
had become persistently reliant on short-term  loans. He had incurred late fees on both his 
second and third loans and new loans  were being  taken out shortly after previous loans had 
been repaid. Mr S had taken four loans in ten months, and the amounts he was borrowing 
had increased  from the initial loan and then remained roughly the same for the rest of the 
borrowing relationship  with QuickQuid. In my view, the pattern of lending itself shows that 
loan four was unsustainable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  two to four. CashEuroNet  
UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans two to four;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
offset the above refund against any capital amount correctly outstanding, and pay 
any remaining amount  to Mr S;
remove any negative information  about loans two and three from Mr S credit file;
the number  of loans taken by loan four means  any information recorded about  loan 
four is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  four should be removed  from Mr S' credit  
file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
QuickQuid intends  to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance,  it must do 
so after deducting  the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1577023