K820x#14Complaint
Miss H has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold  her a Graduate  
Additions packaged bank account in 2006.
Background
One of our adjudicators has looked into this complaint already and she didnt think  that 
Barclays had mis-sold the Graduate Additions. Miss H disagreed and asked  for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint and make a final decision. This decision will only be 
looking at the sale of Miss Hs Graduate Additions  account.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  this complaint. 
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint. And having done  so, I 
dont think this complaint  should be upheld. I will explain why.
 Ive started  by thinking about whether Miss H was given a clear  choice in taking the 
account. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  having weighed up what  Miss H and 
Barclays have been able to provide me with.
Miss H says that her account was just changed to the Graduate Additions account without 
her consent.  The account was upgraded  on 31 October 2006. Based on Miss Hs bank 
statements from the time it seems likely that she was in a Barclays branch on that day this is 
shown by a cash  withdrawal. This would match up with Miss Hs comments  that she believed  
that the account was upgraded during a meeting. Overall, I think that it is more  likely than not 
that during this meeting  Miss H agreed  to this upgrade but in circumstances she no longer 
recalls. I say this because had there been  a meeting  in which Miss H declined  to upgrade 
her account  had her account then been changed, I wouldve expected her to have queried 
this at the time rather than many years  later.  
Given this I think that Miss H agreed to the upgrade  in order to obtain the benefits that the 
account came with such as the mobile  phone  insurance and breakdown  cover. I note that 
the adjudicator  mentioned the interest  free overdraft facility, but as that was already 
available on the account Miss H had prior to this upgrade, I dont think that this wouldve 
been a factor in the upgrade. I also note that Miss H said she did not really want  the 
overdraft facility and that it was forced  on her but I cant see that the limit was changed at the 
time of the upgrade as it was already £1,000  prior to the upgrade  and additionally I can see 
that it was reduced  to £200 shortly after the upgrade. So, I cant say that the overdraft was 
related to the Graduate  Additions account or that Miss Hs recollections of the sale match  the 
evidence that is available  on this case either.
I accept that Miss H may not have  been  told everything about all of the other  benefits  that 
the account came with. But I cannot  see anything specific that she was not told that I think  
wouldve altered  her decision to take out the account.
Ref: DRN12953782I want to reassure Miss H that Ive looked at all the information provided  about this 
complaint. And Ive thought about everything  shes  said. Although having done so and while  
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing  for her, I dont think  that Barclays mis-sold the 
Graduate Additions account to her. So Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision  
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2020.  
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1295378