K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about a number of issues hes experienced with HSBC  UK Bank  Plc. 
In summary,  these are:
-He was wrongly assured that a payment to his credit card account would be applied  
immediately. 
-It wasnt made  clear to him how a linked credit  would  be treated. 
-A dispute  about goods  bought with his credit card wasnt  handled as he expected.  
-He was given incorrect information by the banks fraud detection  department. 
-He was given incorrect information about what was required to close his account.  
-He was unable to use telephone banking because of a problem with voice  recognition. 
background 
Ill set out in this section  a little more detail about each aspect of Mr Bs complaint. And, 
since the complaint  has been considered by one of our investigators, Ill summarise too their 
conclusions and, where appropriate, the parties  responses.  
the payment to the credit card account
Mr B was over his credit card limit and needed to pay for a hotel. He called HSBC to arrange  
a £400 payment to his credit card account.  He says, and HSBC accepts, that he was told 
this would be credited  immediately  and that hed be able to use the card straight  away.  In 
fact, that wasnt the case and his card was declined,  causing  Mr B significant  
embarrassment. He then had to arrange to move  other funds, all the time facing the prospect 
of being unable to pay for overnight  accommodation. 
Our investigator largely accepted  what Mr B had said about  this, and agreed that the events 
Ive described merited  some compensation in recognition  of the inconvenience to which Mr B 
had been put and the distress hed suffered.  The investigator explained  that he had taken 
those considerations  into account  when assessing his overall award.
In response, Mr B explained  that the reason the money wasnt credited immediately was 
because his account had been passed  to collections. That is, the delay in crediting the 
payment wasnt simply due the time needed for a payment to clear, as the bank  had 
suggested. 
the credit  to Mr Bs current account
As a result of the problems Ive described  above,  the bank offered to put a matching credit in 
Mr Bs current account  in effect returning  the money hed arranged to transfer to the credit  
card account. The investigator concluded that the bank  had explained that this was not a 
permanent arrangement, but was by way of an advance in light of the confusion  over the 
credit card account. The bank said that it might be necessary to move money back from the 
credit card account and also discussed  the possibility of payments by instalments. Our 
investigator quoted  in his view letter what he considered to have been the key part of the 
Ref: DRN15409682conversation between Mr B and the bank, but felt the bank had acted fairly in the way it 
handled the issue. 
Mr Bs response was to clarify that he had not suggested the payment was a permanent  
one; his concern  was about the ambiguous  nature of the conversation hed had with the 
bank. 
the dispute about goods bought with Mr Bs credit  card
The investigator noted that this issue had been resolved  in the sense that the payment for 
the goods had been credited  to Mr Bs account.  He also agreed with Mr B that HSBC could 
have handled  things better; for example, the bank could have asked for the information it 
needed sooner  than it did, and it asked for information that wasnt  appropriate to the dispute 
in question. It also tried to deal with Mr B by post,  even though hed asked for electronic 
communication only. 
incorrect information from HSBCs fraud department
Mr B had a transaction blocked while the banks fraud department  checked  whether it was 
genuine  which it was. When Mr B confirmed that, he was told the payment would be 
processed straight away, but in fact it took a further  20 minutes. Our investigator noted  too 
that Mr B needed more  than one attempt to speak to the bank, and that this would  have 
made things  worse for him. 
Mr B accepts that it would  have  taken some time to process the payment, but remains  
concerned that the information  he got from the bank  suggested something different. 
information about closing the account     
Our investigator noted that Mr B asked by secure messaging to close  his account. He 
received a message in reply saying that he would first need to clear the small balance owing. 
The investigator concluded that HSBC  had done nothing wrong, and Mr B accepted  what he 
said about this issue.     
telephone banking
There were a number of failed attempts to access Mr Bs account using telephone banking.  
It appears that HSBCs voice recognition system  didnt recognise  Mr Bs voice. As a result, 
calls were routed to agents for verification, rather than going through the banks automated 
system. 
The investigator thought that HSBC should have  been better at explaining to Mr B what the 
problem was and the steps  it was taking to resolve it. 
In response Mr B explained that the solution HSBC suggested was to un-enrol from the 
voice identification system and then to re-register. But, he says,  that hasnt been possible,  
even with the banks direct  assistance.      
the investigators overall conclusions
As Ive indicated above, the investigator agreed  with Mr B on some aspects of his complaint. 
And, whilst noting that HSBC had agreed  to pay him £250  in recognition of the 
inconvenience hed been put to and the distress hed suffered, the investigator thought that 
Ref: DRN15409683an additional  £100 would better reflect what Mr B had been through  (bringing the total 
compensation to £350).  HSBC accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mr B asked 
that an ombudsman  review the matter.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
Like the investigator, I accept that there were areas where HSBC could have done better, in 
particular in the way it communicated with Mr B. But I must  also be mindful  of the impact this 
had on him. For example,  I agree that there should  have been  no suggestion that the £400  
credit to Mr Bs current account  was a loan or that there was any question  about repayment. 
Placed in context,  though, I think that both parties understood that the payment was a 
mechanism to help resolve the problem with the credit card account   no more  and no less. 
I agree  too that it would have been  helpful if the banks fraud department had explained  
more clearly when the delayed  payment would be made, or that it couldnt say exactly when 
it would  be made  since the precise  timing was clearly  of some importance to Mr B. 
Overall, I agree  with the investigators  assessment  here that a total of £350 (that is, the £250  
that HSBC offered, plus £100 in addition)  would be fair compensation here. 
Finally, Mr B has pointed out that he hasnt been able to re-register  for telephone banking.  
For the avoidance of any doubt,  I havent considered these on-going issues, as they post-
date the complaint Mr Bs raised here.  But that means that it remains  open to Mr B to take 
this up with HSBC  (and,  if necessary, with this service  subject to our rules)  if he wishes  to 
do so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve this complaint, HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
increase its offer of compensation by £100  (making a total of £350). Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 14 March 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1540968