K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy QIC Europe  Ltd has declined a claim  under his buildings  insurance policy.
background
Mr H discovered  he had a water leak after losing all water pressure. He called his local water  
board who confirmed the leak was located  on his property. Mr H called QIC to let it know 
about the leak and instructed his own plumber to trace the leak and make  an emergency 
repair. 
The plumber said the mains pipework located under  the wall/floor of the kitchen had burst.  
Due to the depth of the pipework and need to dig up the concrete flooring, he made  a 
temporary repair by rerouting the pipework behind the skirting boards from the external 
mains supply. When invoicing Mr H for his work, the plumber noted hed left part of the 
copper pipe hed cut off and a piece  of broken coupling  with Mr H. 
QIC arranged for its contractor to attend Mr Hs home to investigate the leak. It also looked 
at the pictures  Mr H had taken. The contractor reported a connection between two pipes had 
failed under the kitchen floor but said there  was no evidence of accidental damage. QIC 
declined Mr Hs claim saying he hadnt  shown an insured event had occurred. In this 
instance, QIC didnt  think the damage  to Mr Hs pipework could be classed as accidental  
damage. It also said the claim wouldnt be covered  as the pipe connection had failed due to 
age. It pointed out wear  and tear or gradual deterioration wasnt  something that was covered 
under the policy.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint and initially said the complaint should be upheld 
as the damage  met the definition of being  accidental  damage in that it was sudden, 
unexpected and physical damage. She recommended  the business  consider the claim 
again. QIC disagreed,  it pointed  out the damage to the pipe wasnt caused  by something 
external, which  was another requirement  for a claim to be considered under the accidental  
damage section. It also said the coupling (connection) had failed  and this meant  it had 
reached the end of its useful life and this would be another  reason why the claim wouldnt be 
covered under the policy.  
Having considered QICs response  our investigator  let Mr H know  that she now didnt  think 
his complaint could  be upheld.  Mr H was unhappy with this and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. In the meantime,  hed also provided further  evidence from his plumber and the 
local water  board for consideration. 
Further developments
Having considered all of the available  evidence and arguments, I spoke with both parties to 
explain I was minded to reach a conclusion that differed from our investigators  opinion. I was 
minded to direct QIC to consider 50% of the claim. 
In this instance, it seems  there is no exact  answer as to how the connection burst  under the 
kitchen floor. Due to its location under a significant  amount  of concrete, Mr Hs plumber, not 
unreasonably, decided to complete a surface reroute of the pipework in order to reinstate the 
supply. 
Ref: DRN18871892However, for Mr H to have  a valid claim under the policy, he needs  to be able to show  what 
happened meets the criteria  for accidental damage. Mr H has been able to provide  two 
possible scenarios,  the connection was overtightened when it was installed and/or a burst of 
high water pressure  caused  the connection to burst apart. These  scenarios would meet the 
definition, in that the burst happened suddenly, it was unexpected and caused physical 
damage to the pipework. The burst can be said as having happened at a specific time and 
wasnt deliberate.  These scenarios are also external to the pipe and potentially identifiable. 
Either of these explanations is plausible and would meet the definition  of accidental  damage. 
And as such,  Mr Hs claim could be considered as being valid. I would  also consider how 
reasonable it would be to expect Mr H to dig up most of his kitchen  to explicitly determine  the 
cause of the burst connection,  given  this type of scenario is something a consumer would 
normally expect to be covered under their insurance policy. 
However, I also have to acknowledge here that these are, only suggestions. And, as such it 
could be called into question whether  Mr H has actually met the final criteria of accidental  
damage  for the cause of the damage  to be identifiable.  
Should I accept the claim is valid, I would  then need  to consider if QIC has acted reasonably 
in declining the claim for wear and tear. QICs contractor has said the connection wouldve 
failed with age, however  they havent provided  any further comment on this or justified that 
comment with evidence,  as I would normally expect to see. And, because of this I would 
normally say the exclusion  couldnt be relied upon.  But that being said,  should I initially  
accept that Mr Hs claim be valid due to the cause being the connection was overtightened,  I 
cant then discount  Mr Hs plumbers  further comment  that the connection would have  then 
given up over time. This comment would support the exclusion being  applied.
The circumstances of this claim are relatively unique and I acknowledge there are equally  
plausible arguments  on each side. The role of this service  is to resolve complaints, and in 
this case, based on the conflicting information above  I believe the fair and reasonable 
approach would be a 50% settlement of the claim.  That is, each party  paying  50% of the cost 
of creating a lasting  and effective repair of the pipework and reinstatement  of the flooring 
and kitchen. 
Mr H has claimed  for the cost of his plumber tracing  the leak and making  a temporary  repair.  
However, these arent costs that are covered  under the damage to underground  pipes  
section of his policy.  I wont  therefore be asking QIC to reimburse  Mr H for these.   Mr H 
does however have  Home  Emergency  cover  with QIC so I have asked it to consider  whether 
Mr H would be able to make a valid claim under that policy. 
Both QIC and Mr H accepted my findings.
QIC said its contractor set out the cost of repairing the pipework in its report  as being 
£898.68 plus Vat. It said it was willing  to pay 50% of that. In relation to the reinstatement of 
the kitchen and flooring, no quote  has been put together yet, but it has confirmed it would be 
willing to pay 50% of reasonable costs related to this if Mr H obtained a quote.  
Mr H said that he understood my reasoning.  He emphasised that due to his location and the 
time of year,  hed like for the repairs to be completed as soon as possible.  He said he was 
happy to instruct  a builder and put the quotes to QIC for approval. 
Ref: DRN18871893my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.  
I agree  with QIC the maximum it should  pay for the repair  of the pipework is half of what it 
would have cost should its contractor have  completed the work. With respect of the 
reinstatement of the flooring and kitchen, QIC will only need to pay 50% of reasonable costs 
in relation to this. If Mr H arranges a quote  for the repairs, QIC should assess it for 
reasonableness prior to the work being completed  to avoid any further issues.  
my final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint  against  QIC Europe  Ltd in part. I direct  QIC to pay the following:
50% of the cost of repairing the pipework  quoted  at £898.68 plus Vat.
50% of the reasonable costs  associated with reinstating the flooring and kitchen. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1887189