K822xcomplaint
Miss G complains  that Lowell Portfolio  I Ltd added unfair charges to her account and caused 
her stress by applying  an unfair county court judgement (CCJ)  which was subsequently set 
aside.
background 
Miss G entered into a fixed  sum loan agreement in 2008. In 2012 her account was acquired  
by Lowell. Miss G says that the original agreement  was for £3,500  and her payments mean  
this should have reduced to £3,100  however  the amount she is being asked to pay is much  
more suggesting  significant charges have been  applied.
Miss G says that Lowell  did not contact her between  2012 and 2015 and that she only 
received contact in 2015 shortly before a formal arrangement was put in place. She says she 
felt pressured  into accepting the terms of the arrangement as she didnt want to go to court 
due to her personal  circumstances  at that time. She says that as she had not received any 
contact during this period charges should not have been applied to her account.
Miss G says that Lowell  continued to apply charges to her account even though  the solicitors 
it had instructed had told her it was no longer taking payments. 
Miss G raised a complaint in December 2017  with Lowell saying that she was wrongly taken 
to court  for a defaulted account. The County Court Judgement (CCJ)  was set aside but she 
says this process caused her stress which has affected her health and other aspects of her 
life. She says that she was then wrongly  told her payment amount was £50 a month rather 
than five pounds  causing her further stress. She says that when she has spoken to Lowell its 
staff have been rude and suggested she was not telling the truth.
Miss G says that Lowell  has made numerous  mistakes which  have caused her undue stress 
and affected her credit file. She says that she has spent hours trying to resolve the issues  
and she does not consider the £300 compensation offered sufficient. Miss G wants  all the 
charges removed and her balance to be reduced  to £3,100. 
Lowell says that it purchased Miss Gs debt from the original debt provider in August 2012 
and that the outstanding balance was £4992.54 with the last payment received on 
28 December 2008. It says the original  debt provider registered  a default in November 2009. 
It says after purchasing the debt it carried out a trace procedure  to locate Miss Gs address. 
An address  was found and letters were sent to this over the following year requesting Miss G 
to contact it. 
In August  and September 2013, it says it received returned post and so another  address 
trace was carried out and a new address was found  to which fourteen letters were sent. 
Legal action was then started and a further trace carried out which  it says led it to believe 
Miss G was at the address it had previously identified.  A claim form was sent to Miss G and 
it says Miss G challenged  that the debt was statute  barred.  It says it confirmed the date of 
the last payment and that it did not believe the account to be statute barred. It says that legal 
fees, costs and interest were added to Miss Gs account over the following months bringing 
the total outstanding  balance to £5943.68.
A formal arrangement  was agreed by all parties on 15 April 2015 in which  Miss G agreed to 
repay the outstanding balance.
Ref: DRN17838902Lowell says that Miss G told its solicitors  of her change of address in April 2015 but that 
when it stopped using the solicitors in March 2016  this information did not pass  to Lowell or 
its new solicitors.  Letters were therefore sent to Miss Gs previous address and due to non 
payment a CCJ was obtained in November 2017. Miss G disputed this and a further hearing 
resulted in the CCJ being set aside  and the terms of the previous  arrangement  being 
restored.
Lowell says it upheld  Miss Gs complaint about this process and sent her a cheque  for £300 
in February 2018  as compensation  which was cashed in March  2018.
A jurisdiction decision was issued before the merits of this complaint were considered. This 
set out what fell within our jurisdiction.  Based  on this our investigator explained she would  be 
considering the following issues in regard  to Miss Gs complaint;
1.concerns about the balance;
2.the letters sent by Lowell to pursue  the debt;
3.the charges  added to the account  since purchase;
4.if Lowell  were rude when speaking to Miss G on the telephone;
5.if Lowell  has offered a reasonable amount of compensation  to reflect  the trouble and 
upset associated with the County Court  Judgment (CCJ) that was set-aside.
Our investigator did not think that the charges added to Miss Gs account  before the formal  
arrangement was applied were  unreasonable saying they were allowed to be charged under 
the terms of Miss Gs agreement. She noted  that the payments made since  then had 
reduced the balance.
In regard to calls with Miss G, our investigator  said that there  wasnt  evidence of calls with 
Lowell and that any upset caused by calls with Lowells solicitors could not be considered. 
Our investigator said that contact had been  attempted before the formal arrangement was 
agreed. She said that Lowell accepted Miss G notified its solicitors in 2015 that shed 
changed her address  but this information  wasnt passed on when the solicitors  ceased to 
act for Lowell. Information was sent to Miss Gs old address and then a CCJ was recorded. 
Our investigator noted that the CCJ was recorded on Miss Gs credit file for three months  but 
that Miss G had said she didnt apply  for credit during that time. 
Lowell sent Miss G a cheque for £300  to say sorry for the trouble and upset she experienced 
in relation to the CCJ. Our investigator noted that the CCJ had been removed and thought  
that the compensation was fair. 
Miss G did not accept our investigators view. She said that calls took place with Lowell not 
just Lowells solicitors.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G has raised a number of concerns in regard to her outstanding debt. Following the 
jurisdiction decision issued on this complaint  I have  looked into points one to five set out 
above. My role is to consider each  case  based  on its individual merits. While  I take relevant 
Ref: DRN17838903law into consideration  my decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable based on 
the unique circumstances of the case.
A formal arrangement  was put in place in April 2015  and this contained  an outstanding 
balance of £5,943.68. This was the balance that Miss G agreed to pay through  monthly  
payments of five pounds. Miss G has said that she only agreed to this as she wanted to 
avoid a CCJ. Given Miss Gs circumstances at the time I can understand why she wanted to 
avoid a court  hearing and CCJ and I have  considered whether the balance  accepted  at that 
time was fair and reasonable.
Miss G entered into a £3,500 loan in 2008.  There was also an acceptance fee of £75. 
Interest was charged on the loan and Miss G was required to make 36 monthly repayments 
of £191.70. 
Miss G made payments up to 28 December 2008. I have looked at the statement provided  of 
payments from the outset  and this shows the payments made and the fees added  to 
Miss Gs account by the original debt provider. The statement  shows the interest  charged  
and fees for items such as letters being  sent.  The account was defaulted  in 2009 and I can 
see that no interest or charges  were added after August 2009.
Miss Gs account was sold to Lowell  in 2012. The outstanding balance amount from 2009 up 
to this time was £4,880.61 and then the transfer  amount was recorded as £4,992.54, a 
difference of £111.93. We requested further information to explain the difference  and Lowell 
contacted the previous debt owner about  this. It confirmed  that the additional amount was for 
ad hoc fees capitalised  within  the settlement. While it is unclear exactly what  these fees 
related to the balance was set and agreed  at the point of transfer and I do not find I can say 
that Lowell  did anything wrong  by taking this as the outstanding balance  and contacting 
Miss G about this. 
The balance recorded in the arrangement was £951.14 higher than the balance at the time 
Lowell acquired  Miss Gs account. Lowell has explained that this is due to the fees applied  
through the legal proceedings. I have looked at a statement provided and this shows  the 
following charges:
September 2014 - £410.00  claim form issue fee
November 2014  £100.00  issue claim solicitors  cost
November 2014  £106.14  interest accrual
January 2015  - £335.00 pre trial check list and hearing fee 
These fees account  for the difference between the balance  on the account when Lowell 
acquired it and the amount agreed in formal arrangement. Based  on what  I have  seen I do 
not find I can say that Lowell  did anything  wrong  by including  these fees in the balance.
Following the formal arrangement, Miss G made the agreed five pound  payments between 
June 2015 and January  2016,  making total payments of £45. She was then contacted by the 
solicitors saying that it was no longer acting for Lowell. Given  the issues addressed  below 
this then started a period of non payment.
In regard to the balance,  Miss G says that further  fees and charges were added  as a result 
to f the CCJ being  recorded. I have looked at the activity on Miss Gs account from the point  
when her payments  stopped in February 2016.  There has been  limited explanation as to why 
certain charges  were  made  and refunded.  However, based on the statement the net position 
Ref: DRN17838904after charges were added and refunded did not lead to an increase in Miss Gs balance.  
Therefore I do not find that any additional fees are included in Miss Gs balance due to the 
CCJ process.
Payments are recorded of five pounds starting  in February 2018  and these  have been  
reducing the balance.
Overall, having looked  through  the information  provided I do not find that I can say the 
outstanding balance is incorrect. 
Lowell has made  mistakes and Miss G has not received  the service  she should have. Miss G 
has explained that she did not receive  letters from Lowell between 2012  and a month before 
the formal arrangement.  Lowell has explained that on acquisition  of the debt it used  a tracing 
service to find Miss Gs address. Based on the results it sent letters to an address for around 
a year.  It then received  returned mail and carried out another  search  and found  a different 
address which  appears to have been  correct.  Lowell has provided a copy  of a letter sent to 
Miss G at this address in September 2013.  Based  on the information I have seen it appears 
there was a period from when the account  was acquired until September  2013 when the 
letters may not have  been  sent to Miss Gs correct address. After this it appears that these 
were sent to a correct  address.  I understand it was upsetting for Miss G to not receive any 
information for a period of time but I also accept that it would be her responsibility to inform 
of any change of address.
Miss G updated her address with Lowells solicitors in 2015. However, when the solicitors  
ceased acting  for Lowell the new address was not provided to Lowell or its new solicitors. I 
think Lowell  is responsible for ensuring  it had the correct address  information for Miss G 
when it took back  her account.  Miss G was not provided with any new payment information  
and had a letter from the previous solicitors saying it was no longer acting for Lowell. Based 
on this I do not find it unreasonable that Miss G stopped making her payments. However I 
also note that there  was no information provided to her to say that the debt had been written 
off.
Lowell started legal proceedings against Miss G due to non payment however as information 
was being sent to an old address, Miss G was not aware  of this until after the CCJ had been 
applied. The CCJ was set aside at a later hearing and the previous arrangement  reinstated.  
The CCJ would have  been on Miss Gs credit file for around three months.
Miss G has said that she did not apply  for credit  while the CCJ was on her credit  file and I 
have no evidence to suggest this caused her any financial loss. However I understand why 
the CCJ being applied was upsetting for Miss G. Miss G has explained her situation and why 
a CCJ was of particular concern and I accept that this whole process caused her a great  
deal of stress. Because of this I think compensation is required.
Miss G has also said she was treated  badly  when she made  contact with Lowell.  I appreciate 
she has said she had a number of conversations and that Lowell has only been able to show 
evidence of one call. It has been explained  that we cannot consider the calls with Lowells 
solicitors. While I can understand Miss G has been  upset by the service she has received 
based on the information and having listened to the call provided  I cannot say that Lowell is 
required to do anything  further in regard to this part of her complaint. 
Overall, I think that Miss G should  be compensated for the trouble and upset she was 
caused by her address not being correctly recorded  by Lowell following its recall of her 
Ref: DRN17838905account. I think had Miss G been  provided with new payment information at that time she 
would have continued to make her five pound monthly payments as she done to that point 
and the CCJ process  could have been  avoided. 
Because of the CCJ Miss G had to make an application for the CCJ to be set aside and 
attend court for the hearing. This caused  her unnecessary upset and inconvenience as well 
as great  deal of stress. Miss G spent  a lot of time dealing with this issue and had to 
represent herself in court.  Lowell has paid Miss G £300 compensation. However in this case 
I think a total amount  of £500  is reasonable. I suggested to Lowell that it increased the total 
amount of compensation and while it felt its original offer of £300 was fair it agreed to 
provide Miss G with the additional £200.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd should pay Miss G an additional £200 
compensation (bringing the total to £500), as it has agreed,  in recognition  of the trouble and 
upset she was caused following her address not being  updated  and a CCJ being applied. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1783890