K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1991. Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI. 
The sale was made by Leeds Permanent  Building  Society, which merged with Halifax,  and 
its actions at the sale are Halifaxs  responsibility.  So Ill refer to Halifax  in this decision.
Mr and Mrs R paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which did not attract  interest. 
It was there to cover the mortgage  payments  in case Mr R was off work sick or lost his job.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs R, I dont  think this PPI policy  was mis-sold, for 
the following  reasons:
Because the sale was so long ago, neither  party have all the documents  from the time. 
But Halifax has been able to provide Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage  application.  The only 
mention of PPI was a small section saying it was something  the business offered if 
Mr and Mrs R wanted cover, and it gave  them  the option to get more  information and a 
quotation if they wanted. It doesnt look like Mr and Mrs R had to apply for PPI as part of 
applying for the mortgage, and instead wouldve  applied for it separately   though Halifax  
dont still have a copy of that because  of the time thats  passed.
Ive not seen any evidence which shows that the PPI was presented as anything  other  
than an optional extra, or that Halifax put Mr or Mrs R under any unfair  pressure to buy it. 
And it looks like Mr and Mrs R knew theyd bought the policy as they later successfully 
claimed on it. So I think its most likely that Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs R didnt have 
to take out PPI and that they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand why 
they might  not remember choosing  PPI after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr R, so it had to check the policy  was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, Mr R wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. While  he 
said he had good sick pay through work,  the PPI wouldve paid out on top of that, and it 
covered him more  comprehensively  especially when his sick pay reduced to just half 
pay, which wouldve  been a very significant  drop in income.  And Mr R doesnt seem to 
have had any other cover  in case he lost his job, which potentially  left him at serious risk.
I understand Mr and Mrs Rs family  may have been  more than willing  to help. But 
circumstances change, and there was always the chance theyd be unable  to help when 
needed. Further, this mortgage was Mr and Mrs Rs responsibility, and I dont  think  it 
wouldve been suitable for Halifax to have advised them  to rely on someone  else to pay it. 
Its worth  bearing in mind  that if Mr and Mrs R fell behind on their mortgage payments, 
they couldve lost their home. So I think the PPI couldve really  been useful for them in 
protecting their home and giving  some  peace of mind.
Ref: DRN15394312Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as I said above,  it doesnt  look like Mr R was affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI, and the policy could have been useful for Mr and Mrs R 
in case something went  wrong.  And if their circumstances  changed or they changed their 
minds, Mr and Mrs R could cancel the policy at any time without  a penalty. So overall,  
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R because:  
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs R about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs R any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1539431