K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Miss B says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires  (BOS), mis-sold 
her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BOS  made it clear that Miss B didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. BOS has given  
me various documents  from the point of sale and these include the Home  Protector  
Mortgage Related Insurance Application, which has been completed by hand  and 
signed and dated  by Miss B. 
There is also the Home Protector Quote  showing Miss Bs details and cover 
information. 
I have also seen a copy of an internal memorandum signed by Miss B in which she 
queries the quote she has been  given for the Home Protector and another  insurance. Its 
recorded that the figures quoted were subsequently  amended. 
BOS recommended the PPI to Miss B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, Miss B didn't  take the accident and sickness  element of the policy.  She has 
told us she had employee benefits of between six and twelve months so she might have 
thought she was sufficiently covered if she was away from work unwell. 
Miss B only chose to take the policy  for unemployment cover.  The redundancy terms of 
her employment were one month for every year she was in service which  was six years,  
so six months. So it looks  like she was more concerned about covering her mortgage 
costs in the event  of redundancy.  
I can understand this. Miss B was solely responsible  for the mortgage  repayments, and if 
she had lost her job and not been  able to make  those repayments, the repercussions  
could have been severe, even so far as losing her home.  
From what  I have  seen, Miss B wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover  such as a pre-existing medical condition. And she seems  to have had a 
need for the cover. She could have  benefited from it in what  could have been a difficult 
time.   
Its possible the information BOS gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks 
Ref: DRN14743692like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover. 
Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But BOS  has offered pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because: 
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about  that. Because  BOS  didnt tell Miss B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Miss B has said. But because of what Ive said,  these points 
dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
If it hasnt  already done so, BOS has to pay back to Miss B any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. BOS should also pay back  to Miss B any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
BOS should pay back to Miss B the extra  she paid each  month  because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. BOS  should also pay Miss B 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss B can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss B any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already  done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.  
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1474369