K821x#15Complaint
Mr F complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) blocked  and closed his account and returned the 
funds in the account to their original sources,  rather than him.
To put things right, he wants  Revolut to return his money to him.
Background
In October  2018, Mr F opened an account  with Revolut.  Mr F used the account to buy and 
sell cryptocurrency.
On 6 February 2019, Revolut blocked Mr Fs account, and carried  out a review of his 
account. Whilst it completed its review, sixteen  payments were made into Mr Fs account 
from various sources for cryptocurrency trades  Mr F had made  between  6 and 8 February 
2019. 
On 19 February 2019, Revolut received  notification  from another  bank that their customer 
had been the victim of a scam, after theyd bought bitcoins  from Mr F on 7 February 2019. 
Revolut asked Mr F about the transaction. He said that the transaction  was legitimate, and 
he hadnt done anything wrong. 
Revolut completed  its review and returned  the funds  in his account to their original sources,  
rather than releasing  them  to Mr F. Revolut felt it was more than likely Mr F was involved in 
fraudulent activity and that he should  contact  the people whod paid money into his account 
to get it back.  At the time, Mr Fs account  balance was just over €2,577. Following this 
Revolut closed Mr Fs account. Mr F complained, but Revolut maintained its position, so he 
brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened.  And asked Mr F for some more 
information about the activity on his account. Mr F provided the investigator with screenshots  
showing sales of cryptocurrency for all the transactions  on his account  between 6 and 8 
February 2019. Mr F said because of Revoluts actions hed lost both his cryptocurrency 
which hed sold to various traders, and the money he had expected in return  for it. 
The investigator looked at the information  Mr F had provided. He said Revolut hadnt done 
anything wrong  by closing and reviewing  Mr Fs account. But he didnt think Revolut had 
treated Mr F fairly by returning  his funds to source.  He thought Revolut should have to return 
Mr Fs money  to him, pay 8% simple interest  on the balance, as well as £100 to compensate  
Mr F for the trouble and upset hed suffered. 
Revolut disagreed. So, the matter  has come to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review and closure
Ref: DRN14227562Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order  to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in 
accordance with these  obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Fs account. 
I then turn to Revoluts  decision  to close Mr Fs account. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue  to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer.  Unless theres a very good  reason to do so, this 
service wont usually  say that a bank must  keep  customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed.
Under the terms of the account Mr F held, Revolut are entitled  to end the relationship.  I can 
see that they notified Mr F on their decision, so I cant say Revolut have done anything 
wrong.
Access to funds
Before Revolut releases  funds  held in a customers account, its entitled to carry out checks 
to ensure its complying  with its legal and regulatory  obligations.  And it will follow its internal 
procedures before they release funds.
With that said, Revolut  hasnt provided  a satisfactory  explanation, supported by evidence,  as 
to why it returned the money in Mr Fs account  to the original  sources, rather than releasing 
it to him. I accept there  are times when its appropriate for a bank to return  funds  to their 
original sources. But in order to decide  whether or not that is the case, I would need to see 
appropriate evidence  to support such a decision.
While Revolut has explained  its rationale  to me, it hasnt been able to provide sufficient  
evidence to justify  its actions. I understand that it had concerns about the way Mr F was 
operating his account. But Ive seen nothing to suggest the people who sent money to Mr Fs 
account between  6 and 8 February 2019  had challenged the payments they made  to him or 
requested their money back before Revolut returned  them. Ive also not seen  any evidence 
that Mr F procured the funds dishonestly or that he knew  or believed that the funds paid into 
his account had been illegitimately procured by someone else in order to pay for the 
cryptocurrency sales. 
Mr F has provided  the investigator with screenshots detailing each bitcoin sale, including 
invoices and communication with each individual. But I cant  see that Revolut spoke to Mr F 
about the activity  on his account, asked him for information or carried out any sort of 
investigation to establish whether Mr F had behaved  fraudulently.  So, Im not persuaded 
Revolut had sufficient  evidence to justify depriving Mr F of the funds  in his account. If it did, it 
hasnt shared that evidence with our Service. Therefore,  I cant  see any reason for Revolut 
to return the money  to the source. It follows that I believe  Revolut should  refund Mr F 
€2,577.
Revoluts actions caused Mr F a great deal of worry and upset. He was left without his 
money and it ignored the evidence he wanted to provide. So, along with refunding Mr F the 
€2,577, I also believe an additional payment is warranted of £100 for the trouble and upset 
hes faced due to the removal of the funds. 
My final decision
Ref: DRN14227563My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Fs complaint  against  Revolut Ltd. To put things 
right Revolut Ltd must:
Refund Mr F €2,577
Pay Mr F simple  interest at the rate of 8% on the £2,577 from 28 March 2019 (the 
date the review was completed) until the date of payment.
Pay an additional  £100  for the trouble and upset caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021. 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1422756