K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mr O says Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays), mis-sold him the 
PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays responded to confirm it had no further  information to provide. I havent received any 
further comments from Mr O. As I havent  received any new information  that requires 
comment, I see no reason  to change my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
I dont think that the PPI policy was mis-sold   so it follows that Barclays  Bank UK Plc does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does  have to pay back to Mr O any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already  done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN12756612Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 2008. Mr 
O says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading  as Barclaycard  (Barclays), mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr O bought the policy in 2008 at the same time as taking out a credit card. He applied for the credit 
card and PPI policy over the internet.
The policy provided  cover  for unemployment and life only. It offered to repay 10% of Mr Os credit 
card balance  in the event of a successful claim  for unemployment. And it would repay  the 
outstanding balance, up to £15,000  under  the life section of the policy. At the time, it cost 56p per 
£100 of the monthly outstanding  balance.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold  the complaint.  Mr O disagreed with our adjudicator  and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case. I currently dont intend to uphold this complaint.  Ill 
explain why.
I think Barclays made it clear  that Mr O didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  
although I can understand  why he cant remember  this.
Barclays has given me examples of the pages  from the online application  it thinks  Mr O would have 
completed, and they show he would have been asked to choose if he wanted the policy and select  
from different options on screen, one of which  was to decline the PPI. Without any other persuasive 
evidence, I have no reason to doubt that these were the screens that Mr O would have seen and 
completed online. And Mr O has only taken life and unemployment cover  he hasnt taken out cover for 
accident and sickness. So I think its likely Mr O would  have seen these  options when applying  for the 
credit card and that the
PPI was added as a result  of him selecting the cover.
Barclays didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr O so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did 
have to make  sure Mr O got the information he needed  to decide  for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr O about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been  
including details of the cost of the policy. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And is seems like it could have 
been useful for him if something  went wrong. So I dont  think better  information  about  the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O. 
Ref: DRN12756613But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - 
so it should have  told Mr O about  that. Because Barclays  didnt  tell Mr O, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr O has said  including what hes said about  his sick pay. Mr O has 
told us he would be entitled  to sick pay for 12 months from his employer if he was too ill to work. But 
as Ive already mentioned,  Mr O chose to take out unemployment and life cover only.  This would 
suggest Mr O was aware  of his sick pay benefits  when taking out the PPI and specifically  chose not 
to take out that part of the cover. So this doesnt alter my decision.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont think  that the PPI policy was mis-sold   so it follows that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
does not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr O any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done this, so I dont award 
any further compensation.
Ref: DRN1275661