K820x#14complaint
Ms G is unhappy that Metro Bank  PLC hasnt provided her with information regarding the 
restriction which was temporarily placed  on her deposit account, and the removal  of funds.
background
Ms G said the substantial funds in her account  are a compensation payment for her relative,  
which she said she was asked to control.  Ms G said funds  from the account  were placed in 
other accounts so interest could build up, and some accounts were in her relatives name.
She said Metro Bank placed a temporary  block on the account  in response to another bank 
recalling funds for one of its customers. She said Metro Bank referred her to the other bank, 
but it wouldnt speak  to her.
Ms G said Metro  Bank said that the funds  have been returned  to the other  bank and decided  
that there  wasnt any fraudulent activity. Ms G wants to know whether it was her relative or 
someone else who tried to obtain the funds so she knows what  course  of action to take. 
The investigator said that Metro Bank was contacted by another  bank and decided to return  
the funds to that bank. He said Metro Bank doesnt have to provide any information about its 
actions. He recommended Ms G contact the other bank for information.
The investigator explained that Metro  Bank  followed its regulatory  obligations  and the terms 
and conditions of the account  in restricting Ms Gs account. He said banks are under no 
obligation to inform a customer of the actions that theyve taken until they have enough 
evidence to make a decision regarding the account. 
Ms G said she still doesnt know where  the money has gone,  and since it left her account 
without her permission  she was concerned about fraud. Ms G requested an ombudsman  
review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Metro Banks handling of Ms Gs account to see if it has acted within  the terms 
and conditions of the account,  and treated her fairly. Having done so Im satisfied that Metro 
Bank has taken actions in line with the correct procedures and the regulations that govern 
accounts and transactions.
Banks are allowed to block accounts and return funds, and arent required to disclose the 
information behind  their decisions.  Our service will look to see if a consumer has been 
treated fairly, but is prohibited from disclosing detailed information about  regulatory activities 
undertaken by banks.  
Ms G has raised the possibility that fraud has been committed on her account. I think that 
given the other bank  that contacted Metro Bank raised an indemnity about the funds, the 
likelihood of fraud is extremely remote. I have noted that Metro Bank has not closed Ms Gs 
account and theres  been no suggestion  of wrongdoing on her part. 
Ref: DRN14763342I realise that I havent been able to provide  Ms G with an explanation about where the funds 
have gone, but I am unable to provide this.
I sympathise with Ms G for not knowing about  the movement of her relatives  funds, but from 
what I have seen Metro  Bank have  followed  the correct procedures  in its actions towards Ms 
Gs account, and has treated  her fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1476334