K821x#15complaint
Mr S, through his representative,  complains that it was irresponsible  of National Westminster  
Bank Plc to give him an overdraft that he cant repay.
background
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 30 March  2019. A copy  is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. My provisional decision was that I intended to uphold  the 
complaint. I intended  to direct National Westminster to:
1.Write-off any remaining sums due on the overdraft on Mr Ss account, including
all charges and interest.
2.Make  no attempt to collect or enforce the debt.
3.   Remove any record of the overdraft from Mr Ss credit file.
Mr S (through his representative) said he accepted my provisional findings.
National Westminster said it was willing to write  off the outstanding  debt. It said it would 
bring the balance  to nil and close the account.
But the bank said it had to show a true reflection of Mr Ss credit history on his credit file. It 
didnt consider it would be appropriate to remove the overdraft record from Mr Ss credit file. 
National Westminster said the adverse  data had been recorded before Mr Ss mother  had 
written to it in December 2017.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted everything  National Westminster has said in response to my provisional decision.  I 
accept that the bank  should keep an accurate record of Mr Ss credit management before his 
mother wrote to it in December 2017.
But Mr S applied for the overdraft that is the subject of this complaint in April 2018.  And he 
applied for extensions of the limit in June  and July 2018. To clarify, it is the record  of lending 
between April and July 2018 that should be removed  from Mr Ss credit  file.
The bank has agreed to write off the remaining balance of the overdraft.
Ref: DRN16724952my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint.  I direct  National Westminster  Bank  plc to:
1.Write-off any remaining sums due on the overdraft on Mr Ss account, including
all charges and interest.
2.Make  no attempt to collect or enforce the debt.
3.Remove any record of the overdraft  and extensions applied for in April, June and July 
2018 from Mr Ss credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
Ref: DRN16724953complaint
Mr S, through his representative, complains that it was irresponsible of National Westminster
Bank Plc to give him an overdraft  that he cant repay.
background
Mr S applied  for a number of loans  with National  Westminster but the bank wouldnt lend to him. 
But when he applied for an overdraft he was successful.
When Mr S reached his overdraft limit it was extended, until it reached £1,500.  Mr S isnt in a 
position to repay what he owes.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. Given the number of loan 
applications Mr S had made, their timing and transactions on the account,  he considered National 
Westminster shouldve realised an overdraft  might  not be appropriate for Mr S.
The investigator said National Westminster should write off the overdraft  and not attempt to collect 
or otherwise  enforce the outstanding  balance. He also said National Westminster should  remove 
any record of the overdraft  from Mr Ss credit  file.
National Westminster didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It said the lending criteria for 
a loan were  different to those for an overdraft.  It considered  it was reasonable  for someone to be 
turned down  for a relatively small loan,  but approved  for an overdraft.
Mr Ss account  had been well run at the time of his overdraft applications, and there was nothing  
to suggest that repaying  it should have been a concern for the bank.  National Westminster  didnt 
consider it was reasonable to expect  it to police the transactions  on Mr Ss account.
National Westminster asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think its likely that National  Westminster  assessed the turnover on Mr Ss 
account, together with credit reference information, to determine whether or not he could afford to 
repay the £250 overdraft he first applied  for, and subsequent applications to extend the credit.
I also accept that it wouldnt be reasonable for National Westminster to analyse individual  
transactions on Mr Ss account,  to work  out whether it was appropriate to offer the credit.
Im mindful, however,  that between 28 June and 6 July 2018 Mr S made  three applications to extend 
his overdraft.  The overdraft amount increased  from £750 to £1,500 during that time.
Given the short  period  of time in which the overdraft increased,  and the amount of the cumulative 
increases, I think National Westminster shouldve realised Mr S might have been having difficulty 
managing his account.
In addition,  Mr Ss mother had written to National  Westminster in December  2017, to tell it about  
Mr Ss particular circumstances. I think the information in the letter was clear  enough  to make the 
bank aware  that it might be difficult  for Mr S to repay any credit or borrowing.
Ref: DRN16724954But at that point Mr Ss mother didnt have any authority  over his account, and it was being  well 
run. So National Westminster didnt reply to the letter from Mr Ss mother.
I accept  that National Westminster couldnt take any direct action in response to the letter.  But 
keeping in mind the information it had been given, I think it wouldve been reasonable for the bank 
to review Mr Ss account.
Had it done so, and keeping in mind the relatively recent activity on Mr Ss account, I consider 
National Westminster wouldve concluded that the information it had been given was likely to be 
correct.
That means  I consider National Westminster  was put on notice of Mr Ss particular circumstances 
in December 2017. So it shouldve used that information in its assessment of whether  it was 
appropriate to offer him an overdraft. Had it done so, I think  its unlikely National  Westminster 
wouldve offered Mr S the original overdraft of £250, or increased it until it reached £1,500.
When National Westminster  received the letter from Mr Ss mother, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for it to reply  that it couldnt do anything without  Mr Ss authority. It shouldve also 
explained to her what was required to protect the account against unnecessary  borrowing.
If National Westminster  had provided that response, I consider it likely that Mr S, with assistance 
from his mother,  would  have done what was necessary to properly protect his account. Again, if that 
step had been taken, I think its unlikely  Mr S would have been offered an overdraft by National 
Westminster.
When I take all of these points into account,  I dont  think  it was reasonable for National
Westminster to offer Mr S an overdraft, or to then extend it. So I agree  with the investigator
that the debt should be written-off, and any record of it should be removed  from Mr Ss credit
file.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint, and direct National
Westminster Bank  Plc to:
1. Write-off any remaining sums due on the overdraft on Mr Ss account, including  all 
charges and interest.
2. Make no attempt to collect or enforce  the debt.
3. Remove any record of the overdraft from Mr Ss credit file.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1672495