K820x#14complaint
Miss C1 and Miss C2 complain that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) transferred 
money between their accounts  without authorisation.
background
Miss C1 and Miss C2 complain that Bank of Scotland  transferred money from their joint 
account into Miss C1s credit card account  without authorisation.  Miss C1s also unhappy 
about a comment  made  by a member of staff when ending a phone  call.
Bank of Scotland said in its final response that its records show that four transactions were 
made in a ten minute period via telephone banking and its voice recording system  over three 
accounts Miss C1 and Miss C2 hold. Although Miss C1 says she wouldnt have made a 
payment from the joint account to her credit  card its records  show  this payment was 
requested. And it cannot say why two payments to the credit card wouldve  been requested  
from two accounts. But both of the £389.10 payments were issued to the same  paying in 
details and both were applied to Miss C1s credit  card account.  The staff member involved in 
the call also confirmed that a comment made before it ended,  which Miss C1 believed was 
derogatory, merely reflected what the staff member had found so far and what  had been 
discussed with Miss C1. She expressed her belief, subject to further review, that Miss C1 
had authorised both the payments. The staff member apologised if this comment was 
lacking after a difficult call.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said:
Bank of Scotland has confirmed a number  of transactions were completed  on 26 July 
2017 from Miss C1 and Miss C2s various accounts. They were made on its voice 
recording system  and didnt involve a member  of staff.
Security verification was completed on the two calls made to telephone banking.  The 
transactions carried out included  two payments from two different accounts both for 
the same  amount  and they were  both paid into Miss C1s credit  card account. The 
joint account from which  one payment  came  from hadnt  been used since March 
2014 so she can understand  why Miss C1 is querying the payment from it. 
But Bank of Scotland has confirmed there werent any system  faults  or IT issues at 
the relevant time which mayve affected the transactions. So, shes unable  to 
conclude Bank  of Scotland made an error  making this transfer. 
The member of staffs comment at the end of the call was unprofessional but she has 
addressed the issue and apologised  in the final response letter.  Miss C1 says having 
made a complaint to the bank about  the staff member the matter shouldve been  
passed to someone more senior to deal with. But its not for us to tell a business  how 
it should operate. Thats  a matter for the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority. 
Miss C1 also says she didnt receive the final response letter.  But its not Bank  of 
Scotlands fault the letter  it posted  wasnt received by her.  
She will not be asking  Bank of Scotland to do any more.
Miss C1 remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review.
Ref: DRN16705332my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Miss C1 has provided detailed submissions  to support this complaint. Ive read and 
considered them all. But my findings are expressed  in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main  issues.
I understand Miss C1s concern about  the fact that a second  payment was made into her 
credit card account from their joint account that hadnt been used for a number of years. But 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that this was caused by an error by Bank of Scotland.
Security verification was completed on the two calls made to telephone banking.  And its 
confirmed there werent any system or IT issues at the relevant times which  mightve 
affected the transactions. Furthermore I dont think it will ever be possible to prove  whether 
or not Miss C1 made the transfer  by accident. 
But whatever happened  neither Miss C1 nor Miss C2 has lost out financially. Although some 
money mayve ended up in the wrong account, all the relevant accounts belonged to them  
and the mistake could  be easily rectified  between them.
Miss C1 also took issue with something  said by Bank of Scotlands member of staff who,   
believing a call had ended, made a comment about  whatd happened  when  Miss C1 was in 
fact still on the line. I note the member of staff said in the final response letter that it 
summarised what shed  found out and what had been discussed. Its unfortunate if Miss C1 
feels this comment was derogatory and as the adjudicator has said it was unprofessional. 
But an explanation  and apology has been  given.  Thats fair and reasonable.
I understand Miss C1s frustration and strength  of feeling. But taking everything into account, 
I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case. And I dont  
think I can fairly or reasonably require Bank of Scotland  to do any more than its already 
done.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C1 and 
Miss C2 to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1670533