K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained he was mis-sold a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Mr S took out the PPI in June 2004 when he applied  for a credit  card.  BoS said the sale took 
place during a meeting and that Mr S was advised  to take the cover. Mr S said he wasnt 
given a choice  about taking the PPI, and that he didnt need  it as he had good  employee 
benefits. 
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Mr S had successfully claimed on the policy  for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when he stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
so didnt uphold  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Mr Ss credit  card agreement. The document shows a cross in a box to 
say that Mr S wanted PPI (but no cross  in a second box relating to another  insurance 
product). The cross  was pre-printed  but so was all the other information on the form, 
including Mr Ss income and employment details. So I think  its most likely that the form was 
printed out after a discussion with the adviser,  and that the PPI formed  part of that 
discussion. On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr S was given  a choice about 
whether to take the PPI and that he agreed  to it. I think he probably just doesnt remember 
doing so after all this time. I also note that computer records  provided  by BoS suggest that 
Mr S cancelled the PPI shortly after he took it out, although he kept the credit card account 
going. 
Im satisfied that BoS advised Mr S to take out the policy.  So BoS had to make sure that the 
PPI was suitable for Mr S. I think it was. 
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy.  But I cant see that Mr S wouldve been  affected by any of 
these. 
Mr S said he wouldve been entitled  to sick pay from his employer of six months full pay and 
six months half pay. He also said hed had private health insurance and life and critical  
illness cover,  and couldve relied on his family  to help out if needed.
Ref: DRN17028402We asked Mr S about his private health  insurance,  but he didnt provide any information  
about it. I think that such a policy is likely to have covered  the cost of any medical treatment 
rather than pay out if Mr S was off work.  And his life and critical illness  cover  also wouldnt 
have paid out if Mr S was off sick or lost his job  I also dont know if this other  cover  was 
taken out in relation to other borrowing. And family circumstances can change, so I dont 
think their help couldve been guaranteed. 
Ive given careful thought to everything Mr S has said, but overall  I think  he couldve  found it 
difficult to meet the monthly payments on the card once his sick pay reduced  or if he lost his 
job. And Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. So 
on balance I dont think there was anything wrong  with BoS recommending the PPI. 
Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Mr S. As Ive said, I cant  know 
how the adviser explained the policy, or when Mr S mightve been given a policy summary or 
full policy  document.  So its possible the information about the cost and benefits may not 
have been as clear  as it shouldve been. 
However, given Mr Ss circumstances, I dont  think more detailed information  about the cost 
and benefits wouldve changed his decision to take the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if hed been unable to work. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
S paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr S back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has made this payment to Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1702840