K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that after he cancelled his monthly subscription he continued  to be charged  
by Equifax Limited. 
background
Mr S signed  up for Equifaxs 30 day free trial in June 2017. He said he cancelled his 
subscription after the free trial. In February  2019  he noticed he was being  charged a monthly 
subscription by Equifax.  
Mr S complained to Equifax who didnt uphold  his complaint. They said they had no record of 
Mr S cancelling his subscription and Mr S had been  using  their service after the free trial 
period. However  as Mr S hadnt used the service  since  September  2018 they refunded Mr S 
£32.00 as a gesture of goodwill. Equifax didnt accept that Mr S wasnt aware  he was 
subscribed to their service  as theyd emailed him a number of times. Equifax said that under 
their terms  and conditions  they were  entitled to charge  Mr S monthly subscriptions. 
Mr S wasnt  happy so he complained to our service.  He said he had cancelled  his 
subscription after the free trial and that Equifax had taken his money without his knowledge. 
He also suggested  that he should only pay for the months hed actually used the service.  
An investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt uphold  it. The investigator didnt think  
that Mr S had cancelled  his subscription  and thought that Equifax acted fairly in charging 
Mr S. Mr S didnt accept the investigators  view so Ive now looked into this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive focused on the following points; 
did Mr S cancel his subscription after the free trial period?
did Equifax act fairly in charging Mr S a monthly  subscription? 
should Mr S only pay for the months  he used Equifax?
did Mr S cancel his subscription after the free trial period?
Mr S says that he cancelled his subscription  after the free trial period  and wasnt aware he 
was still subscribed to Equifax until February  2019.  The evidence  suggests  otherwise. Mr S 
says he called Equifax  to cancel his subscription  but he hasnt sent us any evidence  to 
confirm this. Equifax,  on the other  hand, has records of when Mr S called. Theres  no 
mention of Mr S cancelling  his subscription  in these records. This suggests that Mr S didnt 
do so. Thats  reinforced by two emails Equifax sent Mr S  one in August 2017 and one in 
April 2018. Equifax mentions the fact that Mr S has an ongoing online subscription in both of 
those emails. Mr S says he didnt read them and that they must  have  gone  into his junk mail. 
But the first email was sent in response to a question Mr S had asked. So I would have 
expected Mr S to check his junk mail if he didnt get the reply he was expecting   and to 
check his junk mail from time to time in any event. 
Ref: DRN19640942Mr S also used Equifaxs  service several  times after the free trial period was over. He must 
have known he could  only have done this if he still had a subscription. His bank statements 
would also have shown  he was making monthly  payments to Equifax.
In short,  the evidence suggests  that Mr S was aware, or should have been  aware,  that he 
was subscribed to Equifax. Had he cancelled his subscription, as he says he did, I would 
have expected him to complain much earlier given  the evidence  Ive just mentioned.  He 
didnt do so until February 2019,
did Equifax act fairly in charging Mr S a monthly  subscription?
The terms and conditions  of Equifaxs  subscription  service say; 
Your free trial will end on a (specific date). Your payment card will be charged (current 
price) on (specific date) and then on or around  the 3rd of each month  thereafter.  Well email 
you if there are any changes to your payments.
 
The terms and conditions  also say;
Please tick the box to confirm that you agree to the Terms and Conditions including  a 
(current price) per month charge after a 30 day free trial period if you do not end your 
membership. 
The terms and conditions,  in other  words,  make it clear that Equifax will charge  customers  a 
monthly fee if they dont end their membership  after the 30 day trial period is over.  Mr S 
didnt end his membership, so Equifax was entitled  to charge him the monthly  fees it did. 
should Mr S only pay for the months  he used Equifax?
Mr S says that he should only pay for the months  he used the Equifax  service. Under the 
terms and conditions Equifax are entitled to charge Mr S for every  month  after the free trial 
period. Equifax refunded  Mr S £32.00 as a gesture of goodwill as hed not used their service 
since September 2018. Equifax werent required to do this but I can understand why they 
did. I consider Equifaxs  actions, in the circumstances, to be fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint and I dont require 
Equifax Limited  to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1964094