K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C say there have been  faults with a leather sofa and recliner they financed 
through Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation).
background
In March 2016 Mr and Mrs C signed  a point  of sale loan with Creation to finance  their 
purchase of a reclining  chair and sofa as well as some other items.
In November 2017 Mr and Mrs C complained  to the retailer that the leather on the sofa and 
chair was peeling  away. There was no reply by the retailer and Mr and Mrs C complained to 
Creation in February 2018. Creation responded that Mr and Mrs C should  approach  the 
retailer to arrange  repair. 
So Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint  to this service and our investigator took a look at 
the evidence.  He thought  there was clear evidence that the leather  was peeling away and 
that the sofa and chair was not of satisfactory  quality given the time that Mr and Mrs C had 
owned the items and the price they paid. He also thought that Creation hadnt done  enough  
to assist Mr and Mrs C when  they raised the complaint by directing them back  to the retailer.
He thought Creation should  do something to put this right.  Although Mr and Mrs C wanted to 
return the items he thought it would be fair to give Creation an opportunity  to fix it. He said 
that Creation should arrange  for the sofa and chair  to be recovered and it should  also pay Mr 
and Mrs C £150 to reflect the inconvenience caused by its handling of the complaint.
Following receipt of the investigators view in November 2018  Creation asked the retailer  to 
make arrangements  to repair the items. The retailer is only prepared  to repair the damaged 
areas of the sofa and chair and not recover them completely. Because  of the issues  with the 
poor quality  of leather the investigator didnt think that was acceptable.  He thought  that in 
these circumstances  the items would now need  to be returned.  As the repairs  cannot be 
agreed the matter  has been passed  to me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
investigators view and for broadly similar reasons.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr and Mrs C acquired their furniture under a fixed sum loan agreement.  The relevant law 
says that the furniture  should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt  
then Creation is responsible. I take account  of relevant law when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable. On this basis if I thought  the furniture was faulty when  supplied,  Id think it fair 
and reasonable to ask Creation to put this right. It appears to be accepted  by Creation that 
the leather should not have worn in the way that it has and therefore the sofa and chair  are 
not of satisfactory  quality.  
Ref: DRN12376172Wed usually allow the business one chance to repair the goods but if that repair failed we 
would usually expect  the consumer to be allowed  to reject them.  In these circumstances 
Creation is not in a position to arrange  an adequate repair. I agree with the investigator that 
repairing only the damaged sections isnt a proper repair given the issues are with the 
leather in different parts of the sofa and chair.  That would  suggest it is likely that the whole of 
the covering is not of satisfactory  quality. The whole of the sofa and chair should therefore  
be recovered.
So under these circumstances as Creation is unable to arrange to repair the items, they 
should now allow Mr and Mrs C to reject  the sofa and chair. I have considered  that Mr and 
Mrs C had use of the furniture for over a year before  there were any problems and so I dont 
think it would  be fair for them to have the return of all of the money they paid. 
I think that Creation  should cancel the agreement and refund all instalments that have  been  
made towards the credit agreement since February 2018 which was the date that Mr and 
Mrs C complained to Creation.
I agree  with the investigator that Creation should  have done  more to assist  Mr and Mrs C to 
resolve this issue and not simply direct them back to the retailer  when the business was 
aware that Mr and Mrs C had not obtained a satisfactory reply. In these circumstances I 
think £150 is a fair and reasonable amount  to reflect the upset caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Creation  Consumer  Finance  
Ltd to:
arrange the collection of the furniture at no cost to Mr and Mrs C
cancel the loan agreement with nothing  further  to pay
return all of the instalments Mr and Mrs C have made towards  their loan agreement  
since 4 February 2018 and add 8% simple interest from the point of payment to the 
point of settlement
remove any adverse credit markers  from Mr and Mrs Cs credit file that have been 
made in relation to this issue
pay Mr and Mrs C £150 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 June 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1237617