K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complained about two instalment  loans  he took out with Gain Credit LLC (trading as 
Lending Stream). He says Lending  Stream should have been aware that he had really bad 
credit and shouldnt  have allowed him to borrow the money.
background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and Lending  Stream had told us. And she 
thought that the checks Lending  Stream carried out before giving Mr M his loans were 
proportionate. So she didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Ms complaint.  
Mr M was provided with high-interest loans,  intended  for short-term use. So Lending Stream  
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is 
that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr M before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr M took out a first instalment loan for £100  in March 2018.  The loan was to be repaid over 
a period of around six months  and the monthly repayments were  around £44. Mr M repaid 
this loan early in May 2018. He returned for a second loan, five months later,  in October  
2018. This loan was also due to be repaid over a six month  term and the monthly 
repayments were around £200. 
Lending Stream says it agreed to Mr Ms application  after hed provided details of his 
monthly income and expenditure.  It says the information Mr M provided on his income and 
expenditure showed that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was 
committing to. And in these circumstances  it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr M and Lending  Stream have said.  The first thing for me 
to say is that these  loans  were Mr Ms first loans  with Lending Stream.  Mr M did take his 
second loan on the day he repaid his first one. And there wasnt any established pattern in 
Ref: DRN16590602Mr Ms borrowing needs at this stage. The information provided does suggest  that Mr M was 
asked to provide  details  of his income  and expenditure.  Bearing in mind  the amount of the 
monthly repayment, the questions Lending Stream asked Mr M and these were Mr Ms first 
loans, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream  to rely on the information  Mr M 
was providing.
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances may not have  been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream  obtained. And Im sorry to 
hear that Mr M was struggling financially and repaying these loans  has proved difficult. But 
Lending Stream could  only make  its decision based  on the information it had available  at the 
time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think  proportionate checks 
wouldve extended into Lending Stream asking Mr M to evidence  what  he was declaring.  
Equally I can uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did something wrong.  And, 
in this case, I dont  think that Lending  Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr M 
- it carried  out proportionate checks even though  its looks like the information it mightve 
been provided with was inaccurate.  Lending  Stream reasonably relied  on the information 
provided with and given the amount of the repayments involved and the overall 
circumstances of Mr Ms loan history, I dont think it was unreasonable  for Lending  Stream  to 
lend  especially  as there wasnt anything obvious,  in the information it had, to suggest Mr M 
wouldnt be able to sustainably repay  these loans.
So overall I think the checks Lending Stream carried out were proportionate. As this is the 
case, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  I appreciate this will be very disappointing  for      
Mr M. But I hope hell understand  the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his 
concerns have been listened to.
I understand that Mr M may be having difficulty paying back loan two. So Id remind  Lending 
Stream of its obligation to treat Mr M positively and sympathetically should it be the case that 
he is experiencing financial difficulty.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1659060