K820x#14complaint
Mrs C, represented by Mr P, complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) treated her poorly  when Mr 
P tried to help her manage  her account, due to issues with her health.
background
Mrs C held an account with TSB.  She has a condition which  makes  written and verbal 
communication difficulty, although there is no loss of mental faculty.  As a result,  on an 
occasion in 2018 Mr P called TSB on her behalf.
As the call came from an unauthorised third party, TSBs security processes were  triggered, 
and a protective  block was placed  on Mrs Cs account until it could be clarified that Mr P was 
acting with her authority.  As a result of this block, although Mrs Cs direct  debits  were  paid, 
she didnt have access to cash  for her daily living  expenses, and her benefits were  unable to 
be paid into her account.
Mrs C wanted a home visit from TSB to resolve matters,  and give Mr P authority to manage 
her account  in future on a third party basis. But Mr P says that the only way to arrange  this 
was via the branch, and that on various  occasions  when  he called the branch he got no 
reply. He believed  branch  phones were deliberately not operational, and was unhappy  with 
this.
So Mrs C and Mr P visited  the branch and had a meeting  instead.  Unfortunately, this didnt 
go well. During the visit Mrs C became  upset,  due to her condition  and the associated  
discomfort of having  to travel to the branch, along  with the tone of the meeting and the way 
Mr P says she was spoken  to. As a result,  Mr P also became upset and the meeting ended 
badly. 
This meant Mr P still wasnt given third party authority to operate the account, and due to 
Mrs Cs condition causing communication difficulties at the branch meeting, TSB remained 
concerned about  the security of her account and said that a Power  of Attorney would be 
required for Mr P to represent  her in future. So the block remained on her account.
The Power  of Attorney  was eventually obtained, and Mrs Cs account  subsequently closed 
and transferred to another bank.  But Mrs C wished  to complain about TSBs treatment of 
her, which she felt was discriminatory given her health condition. Mr P, on her behalf, asked 
for £1,000  compensation for each month Mrs C didnt have full access  to her account. 
TSB responded to the complaint by offering  £300 compensation plus £30 expenses. 
Mr P rejected this, and brought  Mrs Cs complaint  to this service. He said he had concerns 
about TSBs accessibility policies,  and its discriminatory treatment of Mrs C. He said the 
current offer wasnt enough.
Our investigator looked at all the evidence, and concluded that TSBs cumulative offer of 
£330 to resolve  the complaint was fair and sufficient, and he explained why.
But Mr P didnt agree. He expressed his view that our service  is purely here to stand  up for 
banks, and that he didnt think wed properly looked at his concerns. He was very unhappy 
with our investigators view  particularly in respect  of the in-branch meeting, whereby he 
Ref: DRN10780392said as he wasnt present he couldnt make  a determination on what  had happened. He felt 
this brought our entire  process into question.
He asked for an ombudsmans review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im going to disappoint  Mrs C and Mr P, because I think  TSBs  
suggested settlement  of £330 is fair and sufficient to resolve  this complaint.
I know that Mr P will be very unhappy  about  this, considering it a mere rubber stamp of our 
investigators earlier opinion. And while I anticipate hes probably  unlikely  to be persuaded, I 
can assure him that this is most certainly  not the case. 
All our Investigators and Ombudsmen are specifically trained and expected to act entirely  
neutrally when dealing with complaints. Integrity  is central to what  we do. Our decisions are 
based on the evidence produced in a case, and nothing else. We have no bias, or prejudice. 
I take my role as an ombudsman very seriously, with full respect of the responsibility I have 
to all of our customers. And I would never make a decision that I didnt feel to be fair and 
impartial. 
My role is to consider all of the evidence, and decide  what  I think  is fair to both parties. In 
this complaint, I havent seen evidence of poor treatment or wrongdoing by TSB.  Rather,  I 
see that it tried to protect  its customer  Mrs C  when it had reason to believe she was 
vulnerable, and until it could be certain Mr Ps involvement in her affairs  was legally 
legitimate. 
Had TSB not taken  these  precautionary measures, and simply allowed third party access to 
the account of somebody it knew to be vulnerable, we could currently be dealing with quite a 
different complaint. One of financial  loss. Im sure all parties are glad were not.
So Im not going to criticise  TSB for its security processes.  Im satisfied it acted in good  faith.
On the matter of discrimination, Im very aware  that this is a serious accusation.  So Ive 
taken it seriously. Having looked at everything, I havent seen any evidence  of Mrs C being 
treated unfavourably because of any protected characteristic. Like our investigator, I wasnt  
present at the in-branch meeting where Mrs C became upset. Im sorry to hear this 
happened  it must  be been unpleasant  and distressing for everyone. But in the absence of 
evidence that shows me she was treated  in a discriminatory manner, I cant uphold this 
element of the complaint.  The only evidence I have are Mr Ps allegations, which  are not 
specific, and the opinion of a senior staff member  from TSB, who knows  and spoke to the 
staff member concerned   who she described as long-serving and capable. So on balance I 
dont think its more  likely than not that Mrs C was discriminated  against.
On the matter of accessibility, I see that TSB does have a home visit function. Its 
unfortunate indeed that Mr P wasnt able to speak to branch staff on the phone to set this up. 
But simply because he didnt doesnt  mean  I can say TSB doesnt  have  a suitable policy in 
place. Neither can I say that branch  phones  are deliberately put away and not answered. Ive 
no hard evidence  for this. In any event, a branch visit took place instead, which didnt go well 
Ref: DRN10780393and failed to lead to the third party authority being  put in place due to Mrs Cs condition.  
Therefore, I cant say for sure that even had a home visit taken place there  would have been  
a different outcome.
I see that until the Power of Attorney  was put in place,  Mrs C had limited access to her 
account. Although  Im pleased to note her standing instructions continued to be honoured. 
Whilst this was no doubt an inconvenience,  I think it was a necessary one in the 
circumstances. TBSs  priority is to keep its customers money safe.  And it did this. Given all 
of the context, I dont  see it had an alternative. 
TSBs offered £330 to Mrs C. Mr P wants £1,000 for each month the account wasnt  fully 
accessible. I dont  think this is reasonable or proportionate. Nor has any rationale been 
provided for how this figures been  arrived at. 
The access  was restricted for entirely justifiable reasons. Not out of error,  malice or 
recklessness. While its unfortunate that Mrs C was made upset in the course  of events, and 
was inconvenienced by the account  block until TBS made sure the Power of Attorney was in 
place, Im satisfied this was all done in her best interests. I think  the current  offer of £330 is 
fair and sufficient to settle this complaint, and I wont be asking TSB to increase its offer.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I wont be asking TSB Bank  Plc to increase  its current  offer of £330, 
and I direct that this remains open for acceptance as a suggested settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P, on Mrs Cs 
behalf to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1078039