K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a now-expired mortgage  Mr A holds with Santander  UK Plc. Hes 
trying to secure a re-mortgage with another lender but at the moment, his home isnt worth 
enough to secure  the funds he needs. He complains that Santander wont allow him time to 
obtain planning permission for a house extension, that he says would increase the value and 
allow the re-mortgage to go through. 
background
Mr As interest-only mortgage  was due to be repaid in the spring  of 2017, but he had no 
means of doing  so other than selling  his home.  He approached another  lender for an 
equity-release  mortgage to repay Santander, but the amount it was willing  to lend, based on 
its valuation of Mr As home,  wasnt enough  to  repay Santander.  
Mr A decided to apply for planning permission to build  an extension, to enhance the property 
value. He mentioned  this to Santander,  and it seems that at first no one told him that with the 
mortgage having already  expired, the bank wouldnt allow it. When it realised its omission, 
Santander apologised and offered him £75. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us in June  last year; Santander agreed  a temporary hold on 
recovery action whilst  we looked into the complaint. Unfortunately, it was several months 
before we were  able to do so. In that time, Mr A stopped making  payments to the mortgage,  
and substantial arrears  accrued.  
When our investigator looked  into the case,  aside  from the initial  confusion  (for which  she 
thought £75 was fair compensation) she didnt think Santander had done  anything wrong. 
Mr A doesnt  agree  and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Santander agreed a further hold on recovery action whilst we concluded our consideration of 
the complaint,  but it appears there has been some contact with Mr A from the recoveries 
department.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ill make  some general observations 
before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Mr As complained about the amount of time weve taken to deal with his complaint.  One of 
our managers has addressed that and explained that if he wishes  to, Mr A can refer his 
complaint about  our service to the Independent  Assessor. Here, I deal solely  with the 
underlying complaint against Santander.
Lenders generally do put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they 
dont have to and we cant force them to. For the Financial Ombudsman Service  to have that 
power would  seriously undermine  our impartiality between the parties  to a complaint. It 
would also create  the potential  risk of consumers abusing our service by making complaints  
with the intention to obstruct  businesses that were trying to take legitimate  action  to recover 
money owed to them.
Ref: DRN14239882Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
This complaint is simpler than its been  made  to look. Mr As mortgage should  have been  
repaid more than two years ago. The responsibility  to do so is his, and whilst we expect 
lenders to be flexible,  theyre not required to wait indefinitely.  
Mr A says he has a plan to repay the mortgage,  but its reliant on a lot of things  happening.  It 
needs him to secure planning  permission  for an extension which he doesnt  have the money 
to pay for. He says it might be possible to fund the work in stages, perhaps with help from 
family, but I dont think it reasonable  to expect Santander to agree to such an uncertain and, 
if Im frank, unlikely arrangement. It could  have been clearer  about  its position sooner than it 
was, but I agree with the investigator that Santander has offered fair redress  for that.
But thats not all; Ive also considered whats happened since.  Last time we checked with 
Santander (March 2019) the arrears  had risen to over £7,000. Despite this, Santander has 
held recovery action  in abeyance whilst we considered the complaint. It may be that Mr A 
simply hasnt been  able to make  the payments; and if thats the case, it has largely endorsed  
Santanders position. But if the payments have been  deliberately  withheld, then I cant  
emphasise how much Mr A has further compromised his position.
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to fetter that right from Santander in a final decision on Mr As 
complaint, regardless  of his wider  situation.  If recovery action is imminent,  that may well be 
unwelcome to Mr A but in all the circumstances I cant say its unfair. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1423988