K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds  Bank  PLC, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester, mis-
sold them  payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
In 1996, Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage  with Lloyds. They  were  also sold a PPI policy to 
protect the repayments  on their mortgage. The policy cost £75 a month. It gave them joint 
cover, on a 50:50 basis, for up to twelve months if one of them was unable  to work 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. In 2000,  Mr and Mrs W took out a 
further secured  advance  and the cost of the policy increased to £100  to reflect the increased  
cover provided.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagree with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  I know this will be a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs W but, having done so, Im not upholding it for reasons that Ill now explain.
Given how long ago this mortgage and PPI were first taken out, its perhaps  not that 
surprising Lloyds dont  have much of the original paperwork still available. Businesses  arent  
required to keep such records  over these time periods. So in these circumstances, I need  to 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the limited information  
available to me, including what Mr and Mrs W have said they remember  about  it themselves.
Mr and Mrs W say that they werent  aware until quite recently that they had a PPI policy 
protecting their mortgage and think it must have been added without their knowledge or 
consent.
Although Lloyds dont still have any documents  showing that Mr and Mrs W agreed to take 
the PPI, it has provided a copy  of a printed file note dated February 1997 which gives  details 
of various communications about the PPI policy from December 1996  to February 1997. This 
includes a number of entries concerning telephone calls with Mr and Mrs W and with the 
insurer of the PPI policy about a claim Mrs W had apparently made. So whilst I can quite 
understand why Mr and Mrs W might not recall this now,  it does seem  that they were aware 
of the policy  in the same year that it was sold to them.
Ive also seen a copy of a letter from Lloyds to Mr and Mrs W dated 27th November 1995 
about their mortgage  application. In this letter Lloyds strongly recommended  that PPI was 
taken and says that an application form for this cover had been enclosed.  And I think  its 
unlikely that Lloyds would have arranged PPI for Mr and Mrs W with the policys insurer 
unless they had first completed such an application  form.
Ref: DRN10318122So, on balance, I think its most likely  that Mr and Mrs W actively agreed  to take PPI, 
knowing that they could choose  not to do so. And similarly, I think its most likely that they 
agreed to increase the cover  on their policy when they took out a further  advance  in 2000. 
But I can understand why Mr and Mrs W might not remember  this now.
Lloyds says it cant be sure how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. But it says that, in fairness 
to them,  it looked  at their mis-sale complaint on the basis that this was an advised sale. Ive 
also assumed that this was an advised sale, because this means Lloyds needed to ensure 
that the PPI policy  was suitable for them. With so little information  now available,  I dont 
know how it did this. But from what I know about  Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time 
of the original PPI sale - together with when the cover was subsequently increased - I cant 
see any reason why it wouldnt have been  suitable. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs W appear to have  been  eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions  or limitations.
Mr and Mrs W say they didnt need the PPI because  they were  eligible for generous  sick 
pay and redundancy payments and could  also have relied on relatives for support. But 
this policy would  have  paid out in addition to these  other means and potentially for longer 
than their full sick pay alone  would have  lasted. It would also have been  more secure 
than relying on relatives for financial support. And a mortgage is a big financial 
commitment, where ones home  is potentially at risk if the monthly repayments cant  be 
met. So I still think they would have valued the extra  security  which  this policy  gave them 
if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs W. And as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  it could  have been  cancelled by them if it no longer met 
their needs.
Lloyds also needed  to ensure that Mr and Mrs W were given enough information about  the 
PPI policy  to decide if it was right for them. I think its possible that this information could 
have been better than it was. But for much  the same  reasons that I dont think  the policy was 
unsuitable for them, I dont think better information would have changed  their minds about 
taking it. I think theyd  still have thought  it gave  them useful benefits at an affordable cost.
So, after carefully  considering all the information  and evidence  available to me, I dont think 
that Mr and Mrs W have lost out by anything that Lloyds may have done wrong when it sold 
them this PPI policy in 1996 and increased  their cover in 2000.
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint against Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 October  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1031812