K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about the handling  and refusal of a claim under the legal expenses 
section of a home insurance policy with Legal  & General Insurance  Limited (L&G).
background
The policy provides, among  other  things, cover  for the legal costs involved in a number of 
specified legal disputes, and also provides access to a legal helpline.  
Mr C called the legal helpline  in early April to discuss a dispute with a neighbour about a loft 
conversion and extension.  A few days later he formally submitted a claim to L & G for cover  
to fund legal  costs in obtaining  an injunction against the neighbour and other remedies in  
relation to damage to his property, trespass and nuisance. 
L & G appointed  solicitors on its panel of pre-approved solicitors  to look into the case.  The 
solicitors didnt think there were reasonable prospects of succeeding in any of the legal 
claims Mr C wished to make. 
It is a pre-requisite of cover that any legal claim has a reasonable chance  of a successful 
outcome and so L & G refused to provide cover  for the legal costs of Mr C pursuing his case. 
However, L & G agreed to consider any further evidence  if Mr C could show there  were  
prospects.
Mr C is unhappy with this and has made  a number of submissions, which Ive summarised 
below. I understand  Mr C has also raised a complaint direct with the solicitors and has been 
referred to the Legal Ombudsman.   
His property has been subjected to physical damage and ongoing nuisance  and 
trespass, all of which are specifically covered by the insurance policy.  
The Police have  visited  on four separate occasions, due to the ongoing trespass and 
damage caused by the neighbour and her builders. It was the view of the Police, 
local Council and the Party Wall Surveyor this was a civil matter,  for which  legal 
representation should be sought and the appropriate  action taken.
The legal opinion from the panel solicitors  is different from what  he was told when he 
called the legal helpline. 
He wasnt formally told cover had been withdrawn. 
The solicitors suggested  some parts of his claim might succeed but all cover was 
withdrawn and the opinion only deals with the chimneystack  and not the other two 
elements of his claim.
The legal assessment ignores certain  terms in the policy. And is not based  on any 
legal reasoning, simply a statement.
The relationship  between L & G and the panel solicitors is inherently  unfair
It is responsible for appointing them and therefore cant  absolve itself of responsibility 
for their poor performance.  
The neighbour has, among other things, built a taller chimney stack, in breach of the 
Party Wall Act, without planning permission and by trespassing  on his property. 
During the construction work, debris was allowed to fall into the flue, thus making  the 
connected gas fire unsafe to use - this remains the case. It is of a poor standard  and 
does not meet the safety requirements of the Building Regulations with regards to fire 
safety. Despite all this the paralegal from the panel solicitors said he didnt see what 
remedy the courts could  provide for this. 
Ref: DRN11920022The police, council  and party  wall surveyor all say there are grounds for civil action 
about this. L & G has confirmed that his policy does in fact cover Party Wall Act 
disputes and so the error made by the panel  solicitors about this is within our remit as 
it relates to the cover  under the policy  not legal opinion  and so should not have  
been relied on by L & G to refuse to cover  his claim. 
Its difficult to accept  that this opinion from an unqualified paralegal  constitutes  an 
expert legal  opinion. He was not fully qualified and experienced in this area of law. 
The panel  solicitors  could have offered a review  of the case  by a fully qualified
solicitor, as a way forward
When this was reviewed, it was done under the misunderstanding that the chimney  
stack had been part of the original Party Wall Notice but it was not. And in any event, 
the policy does  cover Party Wall Act issues. 
The panel solicitors  have also asked for further  information  including  the cost of 
remedial work to his property, evidence that the chimney stack  is unsafe and the 
increase to the value of the neighbours property. He said the fact the solicitors are 
open to receipt  of further information  is contrary to L & G s decision to cancel  the 
claim and there  are no prospects of any successful legal action. 
Although the investigator suggested  that L & G would reconsider  the claim on receipt  
of any such further information,  this will be subject to its goodwill and it has refused to 
confirm to him that it will. 
L & G took too long to reply to the complaint.
Mr C wants Legal and General to meet  his claim and to pay for a new assessment  from a 
different firm; an apology; compensation; and to determine that the parts  of his legal case  
that do have reasonable prospects, should  be covered. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he thought L & G had acted  fairly  and reasonably in relying on the legal opinion  
obtained at that time and was not obliged to pay for any further legal advice. It was open to 
Mr C to provide the further information the panel solicitors had referred to and it would 
reconsider the cover going  forward. He didnt  think there were  parts  of the claim that the 
solicitors thought did have prospects, although they did talk about winning on liability and 
actually obtaining  a remedy. He said its apparent that they didnt  think there were 
reasonable prospects based  on the information they had but that this might  change if further 
evidence/information became available.   
Mr C doesnt accept  the investigators  assessment  and so the matter has been referred to 
me. 
L & G agreed to carry out a further assessment on the basis  of the current  evidence  and that 
it would  review the claim at any point  in the future if Mr C provided new evidence, including  a 
legal assessment his own. L & G also confirmed that any review would be treated as a 
continuation of the same claim,  so Mr C would  not be required to pay a second excess.  
Mr C is reluctant to go ahead without some  written confirmation from L & G about  what  it is 
agreeing  including that L & G would pay for the panel solicitors  reconsidering  and he would 
rather not have  the panel  solicitors review it. 
He also wants acknowledgement that the opinion given by the paralegal  was simply an 
opinion on the evidence at that moment in time. L & G cancelled the claim far too soon and 
before there was sufficient information  available  to consider the longer terms prospects for a 
Ref: DRN11920023successful legal outcome.  Mr C has also provided further information  and evidence about his 
legal case, showing  the extent of the 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, I have no jurisdiction over the panel  solicitors; complaints about 
legal professionals fall within the remit of the Legal  Ombudsman and I understand that Mr C 
has made a separate complaint about  them to the Legal Ombudsman.  
The fact that the solicitors  are on L & Gs panel  of preferred solicitors does not alter this. 
They were  acting as independent representatives  and were  not acting  on behalf of L & G. 
Therefore, L & G cannot be held be liable  for any act or omission made  by them.  
Mr C also says the relationship is unfair between the panel solicitors and L & G is inherently 
unfair.   It is for a policyholder to establish  that they have a valid claim but in common  with 
most other legal expenses insurers, L & G agrees  to pay for a legal opinion at the outset to 
assess if the claim is one that should be met under the policy. It does have arrangements 
with a panel of pre-approved solicitors  firms,  which is aimed to make this more cost effective 
However, that doesnt in itself make the arrangement inherently unfair. The solicitors are 
subject to their own strict  professional codes of conduct and there is no convincing  evidence 
that there  was any detriment to Mr C as a result. In any event, it is open to Mr C to provide 
his own legal opinion  and if that establishes that he does have reasonable prospects of 
succeeding in any of the legal claims he has, then L & G will be obliged to reconsider.   
My role is just to consider whether Mr Cs insurance matter was dealt with fairly, reasonably 
and in line with the policy terms and conditions.  Although, as stated, it is not vicariously liable 
for the actions of an independent law firm, L & G does  have  a duty to exercise some care in 
selecting firms for its panel.  However, I am not aware of any persuasive evidence that L & G  
was aware or should have been  aware  that the solicitors were  not suitably experienced or 
qualified for the instructions in question. 
Mr C says that L & G is aware that unqualified staff at the panel solicitors  would take conduct  
of cases and therefore they were  unsuitable. However, it is common  for law firms to have 
employees with a variety  of different levels  of qualification and experience. Legal executives, 
paralegals and legal clerks play an important role in the administration of justice  and 
litigation. There are normally requirements for supervision of such staff but my 
understanding is that there does not necessarily need to be supervision of each and every 
task carried out in the conduct of a case.  In any event, any allegations about a failure to 
properly supervise unqualified staff, is a matter for the Law Society and/or the Legal 
Ombudsman. 
I am not therefore  persuaded that knowing that the matter might be dealt  with by someone 
who was not a qualified solicitor, means  that L & G did not handle Mr Cs insurance matter  
correctly.
Having said that, it may be preferable to refer cases to qualified  legal experts  not least  to 
give the lay client  confidence in the fairness of the case review.  However,  in this case,       
Mr Cs matter was considered not just by the paralegal but also by a solicitor. Accordingly, I 
am not persuaded that there  was any need  for L & G to instruct another  firm of solicitors to 
Ref: DRN11920024carry out a further  review  when it became aware of Mr Cs concern about the opinion being  
provided by a paralegal. 
L & G obtained a legal  opinion which concluded  that there were not sufficient prospects of 
succeeding to proceed under the insurance  policy. 
Trespass, nuisance  and property damage are all covered under the policy  but only if certain 
other conditions are met, including that any proposed legal claim has reasonable prospects 
of success. The panel solicitors didnt  think on the evidence that was available  to them at the 
time there were reasonable prospects.  The police,  council  and party  wall surveyor were all 
correct that these are civil matters  and there  would  be a cause of action for Mr C but this is 
not the same as having a valid claim under a legal  expenses insurance policy. 
The panel  solicitors didnt say there is no cause of action or indeed that there is no hope  of 
success but rather there is insufficient  hope of succeeding (in proving liability and achieving 
a remedy to put any such issues right) for L & G to be required  to pay the costs  of pursuing a 
legal case. 
Mr C has also said the legal opinion  is flawed, and didnt contain any reasoning  to backup 
the opinion. I disagree.  The opinion sets out detailed reasoning  and  while  I cant  second-
guess the legal opinion  there are no obvious  flaws or errors that would mean its 
unreasonable for L & G to have relied on it. 
For instance, the paralegal said the work done  to the chimneystack was likely to be trespass 
but on the current evidence there was no legal remedy. He did also say hed need evidence 
it was unsafe  and that (if it is not unsafe) just because  it was built in breach of Mr Cs rights it 
is unlikely that a court would order its removal on that basis alone.  He also said that the local 
council may enforce the relevant regulations against the neighbour and this might be the 
most appropriate route to achieving its removal. 
The paralegal said that the scaffolding was encroaching on Mr Cs land but as it was 
temporary, its likely  that by the time any case about it got to court it would have gone 
already. 
He also advised  that Mr C might be able to recover damages for the trespasses onto his 
land/property if he could  establish that the neighbour had increased the value of her property  
because of these  acts of trespass. He asked for evidence about the value. He also set out 
reasons why he didnt  think  that a claim for noise nuisance and loss of amenity  would 
succeed. 
With regard to the damage to Mr Cs property, the paralegal  said to get evidence of the 
damage and ask the neighbour to pay it if she doesnt then Mr C would be in a position  to 
pursue a claim for that. 
The opinion is not obviously flawed  and reasons were given as to why he had given the 
advice he did. It seems  clear to me that the paralegal was not saying that all the actions Mr 
C wants to take are without prospects at all but that on the evidence  he had available  he 
could not deal with it under the insurance policy. He asked for further information/evidence.  
The advice was also reviewed and the supervising solicitor gave some  further  detailed  
advice. Mr C says he also incorrectly said that the policy would not cover any Party  Wall Act 
disputes.
Ref: DRN11920025This not incorrect but it is not clear  cut. The policy covers breach of Mr Cs property rights, 
which would be nuisance,  trespass and damage. It does not therefore cover  establishing  or 
protecting rights that havent been breached. So it doesnt cover  the enforcement or defence 
of Party Wall Agreements as such.  But if say damage,  nuisance or trespass have been 
caused to Mr Cs property  as a result  of something involving a party wall, and the solicitors
recommended remedy  is some form of enforcement of a party wall agreement, then this 
would be covered (subject to any other  relevant terms). 
 
In the absence of an alternative, favourable expert opinion,  Mr C has not proven that the 
claim is valid under the terms  and conditions of the policy. In this respect - insufficient  
prospects of success - I am satisfied L & G dealt  with this matter fairly  and reasonably. I am 
satisfied that L & G was entitled to rely on that opinion. 
Mr C says his claim has been cancelled but that is not an accurate way of describing whats 
happened. His claim can be restarted, if he can provide the evidence  that the solicitors 
asked for and the claim will be reviewed. L & G is entitled to ask its panel solicitors to review 
it and it has confirmed that would be at its costs  and Mr C would not have to pay for that. 
Mr C phoned the legal  helpline and says that he was told his claims would have good 
prospects of success in direct contrast  to the opinion of the panel solicitor.  However,  any 
such helpline is to provide basic initial legal advice and where appropriate to refer a claim for 
cover. However, it is for the panel  solicitors to consider the evidence and information  and 
advise on the prospects  of the case. Even  if Mr C was given the impression that it was likely  
hed have a good case against his neighbour, this doesnt mean I should disregard the panel 
solicitors advice. 
The panel  solicitors provided a detailed,  reasoned  opinion about each aspect of Mr Cs 
claims. I cant  see that Mr C he was advised  that parts of the claim should be covered, only 
that there  were potential  legal causes of action  but that they were  unlikely to achieve what 
he wanted.
Mr C also says that L & G didnt  tell him it had cancelled  his claim. It isnt accurate  to say it 
was cancelled; it has however, said it wont fund any further legal  costs.  It was made clear to 
Mr C that if the solicitors didnt think there was a reasonable  chance  of succeeding, then the 
policy will not cover  the costs going forward and it would withdraw cover.
So I do not think Mr C was treated unfairly in the way this was done.  He received the advice 
from the paralegal  and would have therefore  known  that this meant the claim would not be 
covered by L & G. He was also asked to provide further information  and I think  it was clear  
that the advice  would be reviewed on receipt of such. 
Finally, Mr C is also unhappy  that L & G took too long to address his complaint. I know  it can 
be frustrating, especially as Mr Cs neighbour was continuing to cause nuisance and the 
building work  is ongoing,  and he wanted a quick response. However, L & G responded 
within around four weeks, which is well within the eight weeks  that it is allowed to take by the 
regulations relating to insurance  complaints. 
my final decision
I can see that this has been an ordeal for Mr C and his brother  who also lives at the property. 
However, despite my natural sympathy  for their position, I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN11920026Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1192002