K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC were going to allow her estranged 
husband to transfer funds  from a bond  in their joint names into an account  in his sole name. 
Shes also complained  about the way Barclays dealt with her complaint and information  she 
was given regarding  her husbands account.
background
In November 2017 Mrs P and her husband  took out a bond with Barclays that matured in 
November 2018.  Mrs P and her husband separated before the bond  matured.
Mrs P says she went to a Barclays branch in September 2018  to enquire about transactions  
on a current account  she holds with her husband.  She also asked Barclays  about the bond 
and she was informed  her husband had instructed  Barclays to transfer  the funds from the 
bond into an account in his sole name.
Mrs P says she was very concerned about what would  happen  to the funds from the bond 
and went back to the branch on several  occasions.  However, the funds were paid into the 
joint current account when the bond matured.
Mrs P complained to Barclays  about  the service  shed  received. She also said shed been  
given confidential  information about her husbands  accounts and she was worried  Barclays 
may have  given her husband confidential about her accounts.
Barclays apologised to Mrs P for the upset it had caused her. It said it couldnt evidence her 
data being breached and it offered her £200  compensation for the distress,  worry and 
inconvenience it had caused.
Mrs P wasnt  happy with Barclays response  and referred her complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Barclays 
offer of £200 was reasonable. Mrs P didnt  agree  with our investigators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Barclays employee Mrs P spoke to on the first occasion she went  to the branch doesnt 
work for Barclays any more and it hasnt been able to obtain his version  of what  was said.  
Ive therefore  noted  and accepted Mrs Ps recollection of the conversation.
When the bond was opened  Barclays sent Mrs P a welcome letter  which included the terms 
and conditions one of which says:
If two or more of you hold the bond  in joint names, we will act on the sole instruction of any 
one of the account holders including withdrawals
Ref: DRN18720392Barclays was, therefore, acting in accordance with the terms and conditions when it 
accepted Mrs Ps husbands instructions  to transfer  the funds into an account in his sole 
name. Mrs P was then able to change those instructions  so that the funds were transferred  
to the joint account.
Mrs P says the first Barclays employee  she spoke to suggested she should transfer the 
funds into an account in her sole name. This would  have been permitted under the terms 
and conditions. But I dont  think it wouldnt  have  been a sensible course of action for Mrs P 
to take as it could  have  led to a dispute with her husband. In any event Mrs P didnt follow  
this advice.
Ive carefully considered  Mrs Ps comments about  possible disclosure of her own personal  
information. Barclays says it only told Mrs P her husband had instructed it transfer the funds  
into an account in his sole name.  It says it didnt give her any specific details about  his 
accounts.
I appreciate Mrs Ps concerns but I havent  seen any evidence to suggest Barclays  
breached its duty of confidentiality to her in any way. Mrs P hasnt suffered any financial loss 
and Im satisfied £200 is a reasonable amount  of compensation for her to receive for the 
trouble and upset  she was caused.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint because I think Barclays had made a fair and 
reasonable offer to Mrs P before she referred her complaint  to this service. Ill leave it to 
Mrs P to decide if she now wants to accept  that offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1872039