K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs unhappy that PRA Group (UK) Limited  has been  communicating  with him about a 
debt he says hes paid off.
background
PRA is trying to recover money  it says Mr R owes to two financial businesses. Mr R says 
hed entered a debt management  plan and both debts were paid off some time ago. He says 
he told PRA this but its repeatedly continued to contact and harass him. He wants  PRA to 
confirm he doesnt  owe anything.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
He cant consider if the debts are owed as PRA was passed them by two financial  
businesses. And any complaint about that would need  to be made  to them.  PRA has 
provided evidence  of the debts.  If this is incorrect and payments were  made  via 
Mr Rs debt management company  that also needs raising with the original financial 
businesses. 
PRAs communications dont  amount  to harassment. It called three separate  
numbers it held for Mr R once a day. Thats reasonable. Contrary to what Mr R was 
told there arent rules  about the number of calls that can be made each day. PRA 
also put the account on hold while it investigated things and offered to remove Mr Rs 
number from its system making automated calls.  That was fair.
Mr R doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary he says he told 
PRA he was at work but it still bombarded  him with calls. This wasnt  reasonable. Being 
continually chased  for a debt he thinks is paid off has been stressful.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr Rs frustration at being  chase by PRA for debts he thinks  were paid off as part 
of his debt management plan. But as the investigator has said PRA has provided evidence  
of the amounts it was passed for collection.
If Mr R disputes  these  sums or thinks some payments made through  his debt management 
plan havent been recorded  he should  contact the original financial businesses or his debt 
management company.
I also dont think PRAs  communications  with Mr R amounted to harassment as he suggests. 
PRA investigated  his claims and put matters on hold for a time.  It also offered to remove  his 
numbers from its system for some purposes. Thats all fair. I also think  it was entitled  to call 
each of his three numbers  each day as it did.
Although PRA incorrectly advised Mr R about  the rules it said existed and governed what  
contact it could have  with him, I dont think that warrants a payment of any compensation.
Ref: DRN12392362Overall, whilst recognising Mr Rs strength  of feeling, I dont see any compelling  reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1239236