K822xcomplaint
Ms H complains that an appointed representative of Intrinsic  Financial  Planning Ltd didnt 
advise her to protect her pension benefits  before the Lifetime Allowance was reduced  in April 
2016.
background
 
Ms H had been receiving  financial advice from an appointed  representative of Intrinsic for a 
number of years. 
In October  2015, Ms Hs adviser recommended that she pay a lump sum into her Self-
Invested Pension Plan (SIPP) to make full use of her annual pension contribution allowance.
This top-up happened in March the following year, and then the adviser looked to arrange an 
annual review for Ms H, which then took place at the end of April 2016.  
At that time,  Ms H was told that, if her employer  hadnt made its contribution  to her pension 
for the month of April,  she could apply  for Fixed  Protection 2016  (FP 16). This was because 
the value of Ms Hs pension was reaching the limits of the Lifetime Allowance (LTA), which 
would be reducing  to £1 million. A tax charge would be applied to any excess  of the LTA.
FP 16 gives protection against  any LTA charge on benefits worth  up to £1.25 million. But no 
further pension  contributions could  be made  after 5 April 2016 or the protection would  be 
lost.
However, Ms Hs employer had already paid her pension contribution after 5 April 2016 and 
this meant  she was unable to apply for FP 16. She complained that she hadnt been  given 
timely, clear and competent advice on the implications of the LTA for her. She said shed 
suffered a substantial disadvantage because of this.
Intrinsic said that, in 2014, Ms H had led the adviser to believe she only intended on working  
for another  three to four years. So they hadnt  expected her pension  fund value  would be 
substantially affected  in that time to reach the LTA. But at the April 2016 meeting, Ms H had 
said she was considering taking on a permanent  role which  was a change to her plans. 
Intrinsic said this was why the adviser  mentioned applying for FP 16 at that time, rather  than 
at a previous review  meeting.
Intrinsic said Ms H had been made aware that the LTA would be reducing  in a report  sent to 
her in June  2015.  It said the adviser hadnt made  a formal  recommendation  to Ms H for her 
to opt out of her employers pension scheme,  and it was subsequently decided this wouldnt 
be in Ms Hs best interests.
Ms H said she had been making  substantial payments into her freestanding additional 
voluntary contribution (AVC)  for some  time,  and it would be important for the adviser to have  
explained the limits on her funds. The adviser  had the wrong impression of her career  plans 
 she wasnt winding down her career. She doesnt feel she wouldve made sufficient 
investments into her pension to consider  retiring when the adviser had thought.
Ref: DRN15209492And since the advice,  shes  reached  the LTA so has stopped  paying any AVCs, incurring 
more income tax as a result.  Her current employer has also opted  her out of its pension 
scheme and said it will pay her its pension contribution as cash-in-lieu, subject to tax and 
national insurance.
our investigators opinion
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  He hadnt 
seen anything to confirm that Ms H intended  on retiring at an early  stage  of her life. He said 
she secured a permanent position in a similar  role at the company shed been seconded to 
since 2014. The investigator said that, irrespective  of the advisers assumptions about 
Ms Hs employment and retirement  plans, he thought adequate advice would be to avoid  
costs relating to any LTA excess, particularly when  the adviser had known  Ms H for so many 
years.
The investigator said the best course  of action  would  be for Ms H to crystallise  her pension  
funds to mitigate the consequences of missing  out on applying for FP 16. He said she didnt 
need to draw a pension  income but would need  to take the tax-free lump sum (25%  of the 
funds). He said this would  trigger an initial LTA test and would help Intrinsic identify the 
extent of the excess above the LTA, and the tax charge Ms H would incur.
The investigator said Ms H would incur a 55% charge on all of the excess of the LTA. He 
said Intrinsic should  calculate  how much  that charge will be based  on current values and 
how much  income tax she wouldve paid using the same values. He thought  Ms Hs loss 
would be the difference  between the LTA charge and the income tax on the excess and this 
should be paid directly to her.
If Ms H decided  not to take any of her pension at this time,  the investigator  said Intrinsic 
wouldnt be responsible  for any increase in the LTA charge that will be incurred  later. He 
said she should look to discuss  with her employers pension scheme  whether  its possible to 
take her tax-free  cash in isolation  from the scheme at this point. He said it was possible that 
shed need to transfer her pension in order to be able to take the tax-free cash, and Intrinsic 
should reimburse any costs for her receiving  advice about this. The investigator  also said 
Intrinsic should pay Ms H £250 compensation for the trouble and upset shed been caused.
Intrinsic didnt accept the investigators findings.  It said Ms H wouldnt have been able to 
apply for Individual Protection in April 2016,  as her pension  funds didnt  meet the minimum 
amount. The adviser had noted in 2014 that Ms H "sees herself working another 3-4 years " 
and in 2015 she was hoping to go part-time which was to be part of the process of winding 
down. It said it wasnt until the April 2016  meeting that Ms H said she was looking to go onto 
a permanent basis in her work. 
And it said that, in November 2015,  the adviser had sent a newsletter to clients which  set out 
the reduction in the LTA, and Ms H wouldve received a separate  letter from her pension 
investments platform provider. Intrinsic said the adviser found Ms H difficult  to contact so 
often relied on email communication.
Ref: DRN15209493my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2019. I thought it should be 
upheld, but should be put right it a way that was different to that set out by the investigator.
I said it was clear that Ms H had a long-standing advisory relationship  with this particular 
adviser, who I understood had been  regularly  dealing  with Ms H and her husbands financial 
needs for over 20 years. 
And I acknowledged that they may have believed Ms H was looking to wind down her work  
commitments prior to their meeting  in 2016, and that the additional contribution Ms H was 
advised to make to her SIPP  in 2015 took some time to arrange,  and this meant Ms Hs 
annual financial review  was later in the year than it would normally be.
I noted that he adviser sent out a client newsletter at the end of 2015 which referred  to the 
up-coming reduction in the LTA.  Intrinsic also said Ms H was made aware of this in the 
suitability report sent to her by a different adviser  who dealt with the transfer of her flexible 
pension plan into a SIPP in June 2015.
I considered the recommendations  letter from November 2015. This said that Ms H had 
been keen to make use of her Annual  Allowance  for pension contributions for the last few 
years, and the recommendation was to add a lump sum of £37,000 to her SIPP to meet this 
purpose. This suggested to me that, whatever  Ms Hs future  plans or wishes for her work  life 
may be, she was looking to maximise  what she could pay into her pension. 
At the time of the meeting  in April 2016, Ms H was aged  54. She was working on a 
secondment basis from her then employer.  Later  that same year, she took up a permanent 
role with the employer  shed  been  seconded  to work  for.
I said I accepted  that at the time of the advice she may not have  known this would happen.  
But considering her age and what she told us about  her working  arrangements,  I thought it 
would be reasonable to have expected  to see a meaningful discussion between  the adviser 
and Ms H about how this may possibly affect  her pension planning. 
Applying for FP 16 meant  that no further  contributions could be made  to build-up the pension 
benefits from 5 April 2016, and workplace pension  schemes must have been opted out of by 
that date. It fixed the LTA at £1.25 million.
I thought it was reasonable for Ms H to rely on the information she was given in her meetings 
with the adviser  about what may affect  her pension  arrangements, particularly as they had 
met in November 2015 when the lump  sum contribution  was discussed. I didnt think  she 
necessarily wouldve understood from being sent a generic  newsletter or the 
recommendations letter for her transfer into the SIPP that this was something that may affect 
her future planning, when  it hadnt been previously mentioned by the adviser when  they 
were specifically discussing  her finances.
I couldnt say for certain what Ms H wouldve chosen to do before April 2016  if this had been 
discussed. Applying for FP 16 wouldve meant  she could no longer make contributions into 
her AVCs or SIPP and receive the tax benefits  of this, and she wouldve  had to opt out of her 
occupational pension scheme.  
Ref: DRN15209494But, considering the way Ms H was contributing to her pension; her age; and the amount of 
pension benefits  shed already built-up  before  April 2016, the implications of the reducing 
LTA is something I thought should  have been  covered during her financial reviews,  
considering this had been  known for some time before.
So I thought  Intrinsic should compensate Ms H for this missed opportunity to apply for FP 
16. 
This service cannot advise Ms H on the course  of action she should take with her pension 
funds. This will be something that she will need to determine  with the help of her financial 
adviser.
If Ms H had had FP 16, she would  now have an allowance of up to £1.25m. But shed also 
have needed to opt out of her employers scheme before 5 April 2016  and take cash-in-lieu 
of the pension contributions from her employer from that point on. My understanding  is that 
Ms Hs employer paid 2% of her salary as contributions up to September  2016,  at which  
point she became a permanent  employee  and the contribution changed to 12%. This was 
reviewed in 2018 and, as a result of her realising she was nearing the LTA of £1m,  the 
payments converted to cash.  
But Ms H has lost the potential for protected fund growth within  the £1.25m environment 
provided by FP 16. And so to compensate  Ms H for her likely losses,  I said Intrinsic should 
undertake the following:
A Project the pension fund forward, from the date of any final decision (the calculation 
date) with likely fund growth over the number of years until Ms Hs assumed 
retirement date  April 2022   but without taking into account the contribution  paid in 
April 2016 or the employers  contributions  since 5 April 2016 (explained below).  I 
consider reasonable fund growth  to be the mid band of the FCAs assumptions  5% 
pa.
B The amount  by which the sum determined in (A) exceeds £1m is that which needs to 
be assessed for loss purposes.  
C This should in the first instance  have a notional 55% unauthorised tax charge  
applied. 
D The same  amount should then have a 30% notional income tax rate applied  to it. 
This reflects Ms Hs likely  higher rate tax paying tax status  (on 75% of that amount) in 
retirement and a withdrawal of 25% of the amount as tax free cash.
E The loss to Ms H at her assumed retirement  date will be the result  of (C  D).
F This should then be discounted  back to the calculation  date (using  the same 5% rate 
as in (A)) to produce a current  loss to Ms H. 
If FP 16 had been  established,  the April 2016  contribution would not have been paid into the 
pension scheme  and the contributions to her employers scheme would have  ceased.  Ms H 
would instead  have had these payments as cash, to which income tax would have applied at 
the rate of 40%. Ms H instead has this invested  in a pension wrapper, but it is likely  to attract  
a 55% tax charge at her retirement date. And so to compensate Ms H for her likely loss in 
respect of these contributions, I said Intrinsic should  undertake the following:
Ref: DRN15209495G Project the current value  of those contributions forward, from the calculation date, 
with 5% pa fund growth (as above), to Ms Hs assumed retirement date. To this 
should be applied  a 55% tax charge and the resulting  amount  should be discounted 
back, using the same  5% pa rate, to the calculation date.
H To the amount of contributions paid since 5 April 2016 should be applied income tax 
at 40% (the rate Ms H would otherwise have paid). This should then be projected  
forward using growth of 4.5% pa (to reflect the assumed mid band  investment growth  
outside of a pension plan) to the calculation date.
I If the amount  determined by (G) is greater than that determined by (H), Ms H has 
suffered a loss. If (H) is greater, then this may be offset against any loss determined  
above in (F).
I provisionally said that Intrinsic should pay Ms H any compensation determined by this 
method along  with £250 compensation for the inconvenience and upset she was caused by 
the matter. 
the responses
Intrinsic didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Ms H replied  to say that she had no further comments  to make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither Intrinsic nor Ms H have made  any further  submissions in response to my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Intrinsic  Financial  Planning Ltd to 
pay any compensation determined as set out above. I also direct Intrinsic Financial Planning 
Ltd to pay Ms H £250 compensation  for the inconvenience and upset shes  been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019. 
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1520949