K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (then trading as Egg)  mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit  card in October 1999.
background
The policy was added  to Mrs Bs credit card account when she applied  for the card online via 
the Egg website.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. Mrs Bs main concern is that if the PPI had been 
properly explained,  she wouldnt  have  agreed  to buy it. She told us that she had good sick 
pay through work, and some savings, so she didn't need PPI. Mrs B said that if the cost 
verses the benefit,  plus optionality  been  pointed out to her, she wouldve declined  the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
I think Egg made Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. On the 
online application form Mrs B completed, she had to select the Yes option  to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No. So I think shed have known at the time that she couldve 
declined PPI if she hadnt wanted it. And she wouldve had to choose  one of those options in 
order for her application to proceed. Its completely understandable that she mightve 
forgotten some of these details so long after the event. But, on balance,  I find that Mrs B 
knew she had a choice  about protecting her card repayments and she wanted to do so at the 
time. 
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt  have to check if it was suitable  for her. 
Its possible some of the information  Egg gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, next to where Mrs B was asked to decide  about the PPI, the cover was 
broadly described,  the cost was set out and there was information about the benefits PPI 
offered. I think Mrs B couldve  have benefitted from having the policy. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs B had 6 months  full sick pay followed by 6 months on half 
pay through work. The policy  wouldve  paid out, in full, for up to 12 months on top of her sick 
pay. So PPI gave her better protection in the event that she was too ill to work. Bearing in 
mind that Mrs B mightve also had some additional costs if she was too unwell to go back  to 
work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful  benefit at a difficult time  especially 
when she went down  to half pay only. And the policy wouldve also protected Mrs Bs credit  
card repayments if she lost her job unexpectedly  and was out of work.
Ref: DRN16320742Mrs B mentioned having a small amount of savings. But I havent seen anything to suggest 
that this meant the PPI wasnt still useful. I dont  know  how long her savings wouldve lasted 
if she had needed  to rely on these to cover her costs if she wasnt  able to work. Having PPI 
meant Mrs B could be sure shed be able to more than cover her Egg card monthly 
repayments whatever  her circumstances.  And it wouldve cleared her credit card balance  in 
full if shed claimed for the full 12 months.  
Mrs B was eligible for the policy.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  Ive taken 
into account that Mrs B told us about  a medical  condition shed had at the time she took out 
her card. But, although the condition mightve been  excluded under the policy,  Mrs B said 
she hadnt seen  a doctor about it, she wasnt taking any medication  for her condition  and it 
wasnt a condition shed  ever had to take time off work for. So I think its unlikely that Mrs B 
wouldve expected  to claim under the policy for this condition. Or that she would have been 
put off taking out the policy because of it. So this information doesnt change  my decision.  
And it doesnt look like any of the other  policy limitations or exclusions wouldve affected  
Mrs B. So I dont think having more information  about these policy  terms wouldve put her off 
taking out the PPI. 
I think, when it was trading as Egg, Canada Square Operations Limited couldve explained 
the policy cost better than it did. But, the policy seems to have been affordable for Mrs B 
when she took it out. PPI provided Mrs B with the protection broadly described on the 
website which shed  indicated she was willing to pay for. And, looked at overall,  given the 
benefits PPI offered Mrs B, I think it unlikely she wouldve  made a different decision if better  
information had been provided.  On balance I think shed still have taken out the policy.  
This means  Canada Square Operations Limited  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs B.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B 
because: 
Canada Square  Operations Limited got a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  
Canada Square  Operations Limited didnt  tell Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square Operations Limited has paid back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
Ref: DRN16320743my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1632074