K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK Plc is closing her local branch and she wont be able to 
get her passbook updated. To settle matters shed like Santander  to send her monthly 
statements instead.
background
Mrs P has a savings account with Santander. She says her account  has lots of credits and 
transactions into it. Santander  is closing her local branch and shell now have  to make a 20 
mile round trip to her nearest branch. As shes  a carer  this is too far for her to travel - and 
she relies on her passbook being  updated so she can keep  track  of her finances.  So shed 
like Santander to send  her a monthly  statement instead.
Mrs P complained to Santander but it didnt  uphold her complaint. It said it wasnt able to 
provide monthly  statements on her account but it suggested some  alternatives:-
she could open a current account which would  allow her to receive monthly 
statements.
she could call the banks customer services and they would be able to talk her 
through her transactions and make arrangements to send an ad-hoc statement.
she could manage her account using internet banking.
Mrs P wasnt  happy with Santanders response so she brought her complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
Santander had taken a commercial decision to close one of its branches  and that isnt 
something our service has any control  over.
The adjudicator reviewed the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps account. They explained that 
Santander is only required  to provide  annual  statements - and our service  cant require that it 
sends statements monthly.  The adjudicator  also noted that Santander had provided Mrs P 
with alternative ways for her to manage her account.  These  included  internet banking or 
opening a current  account.
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators view.  Ive summarised her points  and the 
adjudicators response in italics:-
she thinks annual statements will make  it more difficult to spot frauds  and scams. 
The adjudicator  agreed but he explained  that Miss A could change her account to 
one that allows monthly statements or she could change banks.
she doesnt agree that Santander  hasnt done  anything wrong  she says she was 
incorrectly told that another financial  business  would be able to update her passbook  
and she was told a monthly statement had been  set up when it hadnt.  The 
adjudicator explained  that they hadnt asked Santander for call recordings about 
these issues because  wed only be able to look at whether this warranted 
compensation and it wouldnt affect  what they understood to be her underlying 
concern  that she wanted monthly  statements. They agreed it wasnt good customer 
service for Santander to give incorrect information but they didnt believe it had 
caused any financial loss.
the alternatives  suggested by Santander  arent appropriate because she doesnt do 
internet banking; she says it will take too long to open  a current  account and change  
Ref: DRN16802972over her credits and it will take too long to get updates on the phone. The adjudicator 
noted her concerns but explained these were options available  to her.
she explained that a lot of other  local banks have closed or are closing  so she cant  
simply change banks  and shes also concerned  that Santander  changed its terms  
to allow  it provide only annual statements  before  it decided  to close  her branch. 
She says this isnt fair because it hasnt looked  at the impact these changes will have 
on her.
Following Mrs Ps further comments, the adjudicator asked Santander if it could convert
Mrs Ps savings  account into a current account.  Unfortunately Santander explained that 
shed need to apply for a current account  but this would have to be done  in branch, online or 
over the phone.
Mrs P remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with the position Mrs P finds  herself  in and I realise  that due to her personal 
circumstances it will be very difficult for her to make  the 20 mile round trip to her closest  
branch of Santander to update her passbook to allow her to keep  track  of her affairs.  But Im 
afraid Santanders decision to close her local branch is a commercial decision its entitled to 
make.
I think Santander has treated her fairly  so Ill explain  why.
I realise Mrs P would like Santander  to send her monthly statements but the amended terms 
and conditions for her account state that Santander  will provide a statement annually. I take 
on board  Mrs Ps concerns that its harder to spot scams if shes only sent statements 
annually and I also realise the terms and conditions were changed before Santander took 
the decision to close Mrs Ps local branch.
Ive thought carefully about this. But in the circumstances I can see that Santander  has 
suggested alternative ways in which Mrs P can access the banks services through  internet 
banking and by phone.  Its also explained  that she can obtain  monthly  statements by 
opening a current  account or she could speak to customer services  to ask for details  of her 
transactions.
I realise Mrs P says that these arent appropriate for her because  she doesnt  do internet 
banking and she says it will take too long to call customer services  but I think Santander has 
acted fairly  and reasonably in providing these alternatives to her.
I can also see that  through our adjudicator  Mrs P asked whether her savings account  
could be converted  into a current  account  without the need for her to attend  the bank. 
Santander explained that Mrs P would need  to apply for a current  account because current  
accounts can affect a customers  credit  file and as it offers a number of different  accounts, 
Mrs P would need to choose the account  she wanted.
Ref: DRN16802973Santander recognised that it might be difficult for Mrs P to attend her nearest branch  to open 
a new account  so it explained  that this could also be done  online or by completing an 
application over the phone. Although Mrs P has concerns  about  these options I cant say 
Santander has acted  unfairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1680297