K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) 
policy taken out in 1996. Mrs R says Bank of Scotland  PLC (BoS) mis-sold the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
And having done that, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
There is limited  information available in this complaint   which, while a challenge, isnt 
unusual, surprising or unreasonable given how much time has passed  since Mrs R took her 
mortgage and the MPPI  policy. 
When evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I have to make 
my decision  based  on what I think is most  likely to have happened  given  the evidence  
available.
The focus of Mrs Rs complaint has been on her ability to keep up with her repayments by 
herself  rendering, in her view, the policy redundant. But her representative  did suggest, in 
response to our adjudicators assessment, that it wasnt made clear to Mrs R that the policy 
was optional.
However, Mrs R hasnt  said much about  what was said and/or done at the time of sale.  And 
as the sale took place  over 20 years ago, I have  to consider this when weighing  up whats  
likely to have happened. After all, memories can struggle over that sort of timeframe.  So, 
while I accept its possible it wasnt made clear to her that she didnt have to take the policy  if 
she didnt want to, I find it hard to argue that its probable given the limited information 
available. And with that being the case, I dont think it would be reasonable to uphold  the 
complaint on an assertion  that carries with it very little else.
As a result, Im not persuaded  theres  the evidence to say she didnt agree to take the policy  
or that she only agreed because she thought she had to.
This leaves  me with the rest of the sale to consider. BoS says that it recommended the 
policy  and I see no compelling reason to dispute that. This means  it had to make sure the 
policy was suitable  for Mrs R given what it knew about her circumstances at the time.  And 
based on what I know, I think  the policy was suitable.
It doesnt look like Mrs R would have been  affected by any of the likely exclusions to or limits  
on the cover. I acknowledge  that she was entitled  to some sick pay and that she may have 
had some savings available. But she was taking on a long-term  and significant  financial 
commitment on a secured  basis. As a result, her mortgage repayments  would have been 
important repayments  to maintain had she found  herself out of or unable  to work. And as the 
policy would have helped  her to make those  repayments over a reasonably  significant period  
of time instead of having to rely on her sick pay and/or  savings (which  she could have used 
elsewhere), I think she would have found the policy useful and did have a need for it.
Ref: DRN18878262As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Mrs R clear information 
about the policy. So thats what Ive looked at next.
Given the limited information available from the time of sale,  I acknowledge that its possible
Mrs R wasnt given the clear information  she should have been. But as Ive already said,  it 
looks like she could have claimed  if she needed to. And given the nature of the financial 
commitment she was taking on, the policy did provide important protection. So, for the same  
reasons I dont think BoS recommendation was unsuitable, I think  she would have still 
bought the policy even  if she had been  provided  with clear information.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1887826