K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the level of account fees they have  been  charged by Barclays  
Bank UK PLC.
background
Mr and Mrs G say that Barclays  has significantly  increased the level of account charges over 
the last five years and estimate they have paid about £3,000. They  say the charges  have  
caused financial hardship and they have not had any contact from Barclays about any 
possible help. Mr and Mrs G would like some of the charges refunded.
Barclays say the charges  have been correctly  applied  in line with the account terms and 
conditions. It says it has written to Mr and Mrs G on a number of occasions offering  them  
help but they have  not made any such contact with it.
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to us but our adjudicator  didnt uphold  it. The 
adjudicator thought the charges were correctly applied in line with the account terms and 
conditions. And that Barclays  had offered  help to Mr and Mrs G but they had not approached 
Barclays or taken up its offer of support.
Mr and Mrs G dont accept that view and say generic letters from Barclays  do not cover  the 
scale of the problem. And it should  have noticed  that they were in difficulties.
The adjudicator looked at the complaint again and thought  that Mr and Mrs G were  
responsible for telling Barclays if they were in financial difficulties.
Mr and Mrs G have asked for that decision to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator and for the same  reason. I realise  Mr and Mrs G will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how long they have been waiting for a final 
decision on their complaint.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr and Mrs G would have 
agreed to when the account was opened.  And having done so Ive not seen any evidence 
that Barclays has made a mistake or acted  unfairly by making the charges it did when Mr 
and Mr and Mrs G exceeded the fee free overdraft  facility.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G say those  account charges have increased significantly. But 
following a Supreme Court case it was held that account charges cant be challenged on the 
grounds they are too high and so unfair.
The adjudicator has explained that banks and building societies should  treat customers  in 
financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. But that doesnt  mean that just because  a 
customer uses an overdraft facility, that customer is in financial difficulty. Im satisfied that 
Barclays could not simply assume that Mr and Mrs G were in financial difficulties here and I 
would have expected Mr and Mrs G to have approached Barclays  if they wanted help. So I 
dont think Barclays made a mistake or acted unfairly by not taking steps to help Mr and Mrs 
G in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN18788142Im also satisfied that Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs G on a number of occasions  offering 
help and assistance and providing contact details of its specialist department that could  have 
assisted them. I dont  think Mr and Mrs G made any contact with Barclays  and I dont think  
Barclays could have  done anything more until such contact was made.
Overall Im satisfied that Barclays  hasnt  acted unfairly here and so it follows  that I cant  fairly  
order it to refund any account  charges  or take any other action in the circumstances of this 
complaint. If Mr and Mrs G are still in financial difficulties then they can contact Barclays  or 
any of the other organisations  that they have  details of.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 January 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1878814