K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds  decision to settle  a claim he made 
under his car insurance policy as a fault claim.
background
Mr O bought a car insurance policy with UKI. In May 2018 he was unfortunately involved in a 
collision with another vehicle. He reported the incident to UKI.
UKI decided  that Mr O had caused the incident and so it settled the claim as a fault  claim. 
Mr O was very unhappy about UKIs  decision.  But UKI said it was entitled  to make the 
decision in line with the policy terms  and it didnt  think a Judge would find in their favour if 
the matter went to court. It said this because the other driver provided  dash  cam footage  
which showed Mr O moved from a left hand lane across the path of the other driver to his 
right while travelling on a roundabout. 
Mr O remained  unhappy and asked  us to look at his complaint. Our investigator  explained  
that we dont decide liability. But having  looked at the information UKI had, he thought  it had 
properly investigated  the claim and reached  its decision reasonably.
Mr O didnt agree. So hed like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os policy  with UKI has a very common term which Ive seen in most   if not all car 
insurance policies.  It says UKI can make a decision as to how to settle  the claim on behalf  of 
Mr O. This means that UKI may make a decision Mr O doesnt agree with, but the policy 
allows UKI to do this. We dont have  any objection to this term, in principle, as long as 
insurers treat their customers fairly and reasonably when  they rely on it.
As Mr O described  and from images Ive seen  of the roundabout   there are two unmarked  
lanes on the approach to the roundabout.  Mr O said the other driver was behind  him 
travelling toward the roundabout. Mr O was in the left hand lane. He entered the roundabout 
when it was clear to do so. He said the other driver  attempted to overtake him on the 
roundabout and this caused the collision. 
Dash cam footage  from the other  drivers vehicle show  Mr O moved to the right and didnt 
continue in the left hand lane while on the roundabout. The other  driver  was on the right. 
UKI said that based on the information it had it didnt feel it could defend liability. So it 
decided to settle the claim as a fault claim on a without prejudice basis.
I understand how strongly Mr O feels about  UKIs decision. And I know  that although he and 
his wife werent physically injured, the incident  has clearly caused  them  upset. But I think 
UKI properly  investigated the claim and reached  its decision in a fair and reasonable way  
and in line with the policy. So I think it correctly recorded the claim as a fault claim.
Ref: DRN14144962As UKI settled the claim on a without  prejudice basis, Mr O can consider legal action  
against the other driver. But he will need to seek his own legal advice about that. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1414496