K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a number of income  protection and life cover  policies were mis-sold to 
him by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
background
Mr H took out an income protection policy with Lloyds  Bank  in 1993. He later took out two 
further income protection policies in 1994,  and two life cover policies. 
In 2018 Mr H complained  to Lloyds Bank  and said he thought  the policies hed taken out in 
1993 and 1994 may have been mis-sold to him. 
Lloyds Bank  said it didnt think the two life cover policies had been mis-sold.  It said these 
had a term which corresponded with the date Mr Hs eldest  child would reach 18 years of 
age. And it said during  a review in 2016,  Mr H had wanted to check the level of protection  he 
had and said he wanted to ensure his family would not suffer  financially in the event of his 
death.
Lloyds Bank  said it also didnt think Mr H had been mis-sold the three  income protection 
policies he took out in 1993 and 1994.  It said although Mr H received certain  benefits  
through his employer, those circumstances could have changed. It said if Mr H had left his 
employment, those  benefits would have  ceased.  
However, Lloyds Bank said it thought it had made an error with the two income protection  
policies Mr H had taken  out in 1994.  It said this was because these policies had Mr Hs 
retirement age set at 65. Whereas its records  showed that Mr H had said he intended to 
retire at age 60, and his first policy had been set at age 60. 
Lloyds Bank  said because of the error  in Mr Hs retirement age, hed paid too much for his 
second and third income protection  policies. It calculated the difference in premiums  and 
issued a refund to Mr H including interest  at 8%. 
Unhappy with Lloyds  Banks response, Mr H brought his complaint to this service. He said 
he didnt think the income protection policies  hed been sold by Lloyds Bank  were  necessary 
as he had sick pay in place through his employer, a pension with a provision for early 
retirement due to ill health and death  in service  benefit. 
An investigator here looked into the complaint and said she didnt think  any of the policies 
had been mis-sold. She thought Lloyds Bank had made an error  in incorrectly  setting Mr Hs 
retirement age at 65 for two of his income  protection policies. However she thought it had 
done enough to correct  this. 
Lloyds Bank  accepted the investigators view. Mr H disagreed. He said his death in service 
benefit was guaranteed as hed had no intention of changing his job.
As Mr H disagreed with the investigators view,  the case has been passed to me to make  
a decision. 
Ref: DRN11983422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im in agreement 
with the investigators  view. Ill explain  why. 
Ive looked at the limited information  available from when Mr H took out income  protection 
and life policies  with Lloyds Bank in 1993 and 1994. 
Based on this and the benefits and deferred period of the income protection policies, Im 
satisfied that these complemented  the sick pay benefits Mr H already  had in place through  
his employer. I say this because the policies would have begun paying  after his benefits  
through his employer had reduced or ended. So I dont think it was unreasonable  that Lloyds 
Bank sold Mr H these  policies to supplement what he had in place through  his employer at 
that time.  
Lloyds Bank  said it made a mistake when it set Mr Hs planned retirement age at 65 on the 
income protection policies taken out in 1994.  Lloyds  Bank said Mr H had previously said he 
intended to retire at age 60. But this doesnt  mean  I think the policies were mis-sold. Lloyds 
Bank calculated the difference  in premiums and issued a refund to Mr H including interest  at 
8%. So Im satisfied its done enough to put things right in respect  of this error. 
Lloyds Bank  sold Mr H two income protection policies in 1994 in addition  to the one he had 
already taken the previous year. Its not always cost effective to cancel an existing  policy and 
take out a new one. So it can be common for additional policies to be recommended  to top 
up those already in existence. And I think thats what  happened here. One of the policies 
taken in 1994 was set to pay benefits  after six months, and the other after 12. So I think this 
was in line with the sick pay benefits Mr H had through his employer, and with the policy he 
already had, as Mr Hs income  had increased. So because of this, I dont think  Lloyds Banks  
income protection policy recommendations  were unreasonable.  
Lloyds Bank  also sold Mr H two life policies in 1994.  These were  set to run for a period of 18 
years. The first would  pay out a lump sum if Mr H died. And the second would pay a yearly 
benefit in the same  scenario. Lloyds  Bank  has been unable  to provide further information 
from the time these  policies were sold, but has said it believes the policies were intended to 
provide cover for Mr Hs family in the event of his death, up until the point that his eldest 
child was 18. And based on the dates  involved, I think this is most likely. 
Mr H said he was eligible for a death in service  benefit from his employer at the time the 
policies were sold in 1994. He said he had no intention  of changing jobs, so would always  
have been entitled to the benefits. And he doesnt think  he needed the life cover policies due 
to this. 
I think Mr H has exercised  some benefit  of hindsight here. He now knows  he has remained 
with the same employer  for many years. However in 1994,  he couldnt  be certain that this 
would remain the case. His employment could have ended for a number of reasons, and if 
that had happened,  he would likely have no longer been entitled  to the death in service  
benefit. Because of this, I dont think it was unreasonable that Lloyds Bank recommended  
additional cover. And, unlike income  protection, which is designed  to replace the majority of 
the policyholders earnings, there  isnt a similar comparator in terms of what  would be 
a reasonable or maximum amount of life cover. 
Ref: DRN11983423Ive seen evidence  of a review meeting  Mr H had with Lloyds Bank  in 2006 where all of 
Mr Hs policies were discussed. And following the meeting, Lloyds Bank  sent a summary 
and recommendations report  to Mr H. 
In this report, Lloyds  Bank noted  that it was still Mr Hs priority that provisions were in place  
for his wife and children  if he were to pass away. And it shows  the possibility of Mr H taking 
a new policy   critical illness with life cover  was discussed. The report also detailed the 
income protection policies Mr H already  had in place, and broke down  the sick pay 
entitlements Mr H had through his employer  at the time.
Lloyds Bank  sent this report to Mr H after the meeting in 2006, and Ive seen no evidence 
that Mr H has disputed  the contents  of the report as being  incorrect.  So I accept  this report is 
an accurate reflection of the review  meeting which took place. 
I think its unlikely that Mr H thought the benefits  he had in place with his employer caused 
him to be over-insured  in 2006. I say this because the report shows Mr H and Lloyds Bank 
discussed the possibility of cancelling  one of his existing life policies and replacing  it with 
a new policy. One which would have provided  increased critical illness  and life cover over 
a longer term, and would have paid out enough  to repay Mr H and his wifes  mortgage. 
Following the review in 2006, Mr H took out a new life policy  with Lloyds Bank.  Hes raised  
a complaint about this policy, which Lloyds Bank is considering separately. So I wont  
comment on this any further  in this decision.  
Mr H didnt cancel any of his existing policies following the review  in 2006. His life policies 
remained in force and ended  as planned  in 2012. And his income protection policies are still 
in force.  So I think this indicates that Mr H wanted the cover he had in place. 
As Ive explained, I dont  think  the policy recommendations Lloyds Bank made  to Mr H in 
1993 and 1994 were  unreasonable.  And I think its evident Mr H still wanted  the income 
protection and life cover he had in place  at the point  of the review meeting in 2006. As if he 
didnt, and thought that the benefits he had through his employer were  sufficient  for his 
needs, he could  have cancelled some or all of the additional  cover he had.
my final decision
Im aware that Lloyds  Bank PLC has already  made an adjustment  to the retirement  age on 
two of Mr Hs income protection policies. And has refunded him the difference  with interest. 
I conclude that this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my decision is 
that Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt need to pay anything further, so I make no award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1198342