K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim under his commercial property 
insurance 
and then voided the policy (cancelled it and treated as if it never existed).
background
Mr S owned a pub, covered by a commercial property policy. In 2012, he rented the pub out 
and 
took out a new policy, insured by AXA. He took the policy out through a broker, Y.
In 2016, a fire broke out at Mr Ss pub and it burned down. He made a claim under his AXA 
policy.
After 
investigating the claim, AXA said it wasnt going to pay anything and was voiding the 
policy. It said when he took the policy out Mr S described the property to be insured as a 
shop or other retail premises, when he should have called it a pub. AXA said it wouldnt have 
insured him if it had known his property was a pub and so was entitled to void the policy. 
AXA refunded the premiums.
Our investigator thought it was fair for AXA to have declined the claim and voided the policy. 
He didnt think Mr S or Y had taken reasonable care not to misrepresent the type of trade 
being carried out at his property. And he was satisfied AXA wouldnt have provided cover if it 
had known Mr S wanted to insure a pub.
Mr S disagreed, and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. He said AXAs 
underwriters, 
T, had also underwritten his previous policy with a different insurer. And that T 
knew his property was a pub, so AXA should have too.  
I issued a provisional decision about Mr Ss complaint. In summary, I said:
The relevant law applying to Mr Ss policy is the Marine Insurance Act 1906. This
provides 
that AXA is entitled to void Mr Ss policy if he failed to disclose or
misrepresented a material fact which may have affected the terms under which AXA
would have offered cover.
Consumers and small businesses which arent financially sophisticated or dont have
a detailed knowledge of insurance matters might not know what is or isnt material to
an insurer.
I was persuaded Mr S (a sole trader) is similar to a consumer in his knowledge and
experience 
of insurance matters, so I didnt think following the strict legal position
would be fair and reasonable in this particular case.
I thought it fair and reasonable to apply our services long standing approach, which
meant 
considering whether AXA asked clear questions to elicit the information it
DRN18899102considered material, and  whether the answer to any question induced or influenced 
AXAs decision about under what terms it would offer cover.
When  he applied for his policy Mr S was asked to select options from drop-down
boxes to say what business was being carried out at the property he wanted to
insure.
Mr  S said the premises were to be used for Shops and Other Retail Premises Not
Otherwise Specified.
Mr  Ss property was a pub, and one of the drop-down box options was Public
Houses.
AXA  asked a clear question about what type of business was going to be carried out
at the insured premises. Mr S gave a clear, and incorrect, answer.
I  noted Mr S used an insurance broker, Y, when applying for the policy. Id expect Y
to be aware of the different trade types and how a particular trade should be
categorised.
Taking  everything into account I didnt think Mr S (or his agent) took reasonable care
not to misrepresent the trade being carried out at the property.
I  considered various pieces of evidence AXA provided about what cover it offers and
under what terms. This included explanations and screenshots at various stages of
the underwriting process, its underwriting criteria and a statement from a senior
underwriter at its underwriting agent, T.
I  found this evidence to be detailed, logical and consistent. Taken together AXAs
evidence suggested that if Mr S had said his property was a pub, his application
would have been referred for consideration by an underwriter.
Had  that happened, whether or not cover would have been offered would have been
a matter of judgement for the individual underwriter (within the constraints of the
underwriting criteria).
The  underwriter would have considered relevant factors including the area the
property was located, the type of trade and any previous claims the applicant had
made.
Pubs  are ranked at the highest risk level in AXAs underwriting criteria. The area
Mr Ss pub is in was rated in AXAs highest risk category for arson. And Mr S had
made a claim on a previous policy less than a year before this application.
The  underwriter from T said that, taking the above into account, AXA wouldnt have
offered Mr S cover.
Because  of the exercise of judgement that would have been involved, I couldnt say
for certain whether or not AXA would have offered Mr S cover if hed declared his
property was a pub. But on balance, I thought it more likely than not AXA would have
declined cover.
Mr  S had previously been able to insure his pub, and that policy was also
underwritten by T. But the insurer for that policy was different. And T would have to
apply different insurers criteria when underwriting policies. So I didnt think the fact T
had happened to underwrite a previous policy for a different insurer was persuasive
evidence about whether AXA would have offered Mr S cover.
T  underwrote Mr Ss previous policy. But it was taken out through a different broker,
applying for a different type of insurance product and asked for cover for a different
named property. Because of this I didnt think T ought reasonably to have been
aware the trade type Mr S listed on his application for the AXA policy was wrong.
Overall  I was satisfied AXA asked a clear question about the nature of Ms Ss
business, and had he answered correctly it wouldnt have offered him cover. So I
didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable for AXA to void Mr Ss policy and decline to
pay his claim.3Mr S  didnt agree with my provisional conclusions. In summary, he said:
He  considered his contract to be with T and wasnt aware AXA was the insurer of his
policy.
T  knew hed previously taken out cover for the same premises, and that it was a pub.
So T should have passed this information to AXA.
There  was no category of Public Houses available for selection when he tried to
apply for the policy online. He rang Y and it was Y that told him to enter Shops and
Other Retail Premises Not Otherwise Specified. My assertion that Mr S gave an
incorrect answer to the question he was asked doesnt reflect what actually
happened.
He  disagreed that, had he said his property was a pub, AXA wouldnt have offered to
cover him. He said his previous claims history cant have been relevant as AXA
renewed his cover after his previous claim for wind damage only had been settled.
AXA  itself said the construction of the property wasnt something it would make an
issue out of so the reference the underwriter made to it in his testimony should be
ignored.
Further,  T had previously underwritten a policy for Mr S covering the same property
in the knowledge it was a pub.
AXA said it  agreed with the provisional decision. In support of its position it said:
The  senior underwriter who gave evidence about whether cover would have been
offered was never an employee of AXA, and no longer works for T.
As  the senior underwriter at the relevant time he was and is the best qualified person
to comment on whether or not cover would have been offered.
It  reiterated its view that it wouldnt have offered Mr S cover if it had known his
property was a pub.
Y  was an independent intermediary, acting on Mr Ss behalf. AXA shouldnt be held
responsible for anything Y did or didnt do.
my findings
Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive not been persuaded 
to depart from my provisional findings and Ill explain why.
In reaching  my conclusions Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. The approach Ive taken, and my reasons for 
departing from the strict legal position as set out in the Marine Insurance Act 1906, remain 
as Ive set out above and in my provisional decision.
Mr Ss  responses to my provisional findings centre on three main issues: the role of Y and 
what that means for my assessment of how he answered AXAs question; whether or not 
AXA would have covered him had it known his property was a pub; and whether T should 
have known it was a pub and informed AXA of that information.
the application/role  of Y
Mr S  says Y told him to put the trade type he did on his application, because it thought that 
was the closest applicable category. But Im satisfied, based on the information about its 4quoting system and the website screenshots AXA has provided, that the option  of Public  
Houses could, and should, have  been selected under the category of Leisure Trades . So I 
remain of the view Mr S was asked a clear question about the nature of the trade to be 
carried out at the insured premises and gave the wrong answer.
When I say Mr S here, I refer to the actions  taken by both him and his broker,  Y. This 
complaint concerns AXA and the information  it was provided with when  it offered  Mr S cover. 
Whether that information came from Mr S directly,  from Y, or from Mr S on the advice  of Y 
isnt material to my assessment of what AXA did. If Mr S thinks Y could  have done  more to 
ensure he gave the right information to AXA, thats  something hed have  to take up with Y.
would AXA have  offered cover  without the misrepresentation?
Ive thought very carefully about this question. Its clear that, had AXA been aware Mr Ss 
property was a pub, his application  would neither have  been automatically accepted nor 
automatically declined.  It would have been  referred  to an underwriter to decide  whether 
cover should  be offered  and under what terms. The underwriting criteria, under which that 
decision would have  had to be made,  arent in my view conclusive as to whether or not AXA 
would definitely  have offered cover. There would have been an element of judgement 
involved on the part of the underwriter. So Ive had to decide, based  on the evidence 
available to me, if on balance I think AXA would have covered Mr S or not.
Ive given weight  to the statement from a senior  underwriter from T, who has explained why 
he doesnt think cover would have been  offered. Mr S has called into question  whether this 
evidence is reliable given  the underwriters relationship  with T and AXA. But I note that the 
individual in question was never  an employee of AXA and no longer works  for T, and Im not 
persuaded there would  be any reason or incentive for his version  of events to favour one 
party over the other. His evidence is detailed and consistent and his opinion has been  given 
in reference to the documented  underwriting criteria.
Mr S has specifically  questioned the previous claim hed made (for storm damage) and the 
construction of his property. Hes said they wouldnt (or shouldnt) have had a bearing on 
whether AXA would have insured him. As I explained in my provisional decision I dont think 
any one factor would  have, on its own,  meant  AXA would have declined cover. But Im 
satisfied that there were  a number of criteria the underwriter would have had to take into 
account when  deciding whether cover should  be offered.
Mr S was looking  to insure  a pub, which was rated the highest risk trade type.  And the area it 
was located was given the highest arson risk in AXAs  underwriting  criteria. Having 
considered these factors alongside the fact a previous  claim (albeit for storm damage 
caused by wind) had been made  at the property, I remain  of the view that its more  likely 
than not AXA would  have declined to cover Mr S if hed said his property was a pub, and his 
application had been referred  to an underwriter.
Mr S has referred to previous cover hed had for his pub. But AXA wasnt  the insurer for his 
previous policies. It never had to make a decision about whether to cover  his particular 
property, given Mr Ss particular circumstances, and applying  its underwriting  criteria at that 
particular time. Had it done so, for the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded it would have 
insured him.5the role  of T
Mr S  says T should have known he was looking to insure a pub because it had previously 
underwritten a policy for him using another insurer. My opinion on this point hasnt materially 
changed from my provisional decision. 
T, as a  large organisation, may well have had a record of Mr Ss previous policy. But T 
encompasses a number of different and separate entities with their own systems and I dont 
think its unreasonable that they wouldnt all have access to each others information.
Mr Ss  earlier policy was sold using a different broker, and insured by a different insurer, 
than the policy that this complaint is about. The AXA policy was taken out using a different 
name for the property (albeit with the same post code), and it was for a different type of 
insurance product, as Mr S had begun to rent out his pub and so now needed landlord 
cover.
Taking all  that into account I dont think T ought reasonably to have been aware the trade 
type Mr S gave on his application wasnt the same as the one hed given on his earlier 
policy.
So overall  I am still satisfied AXA asked a clear question about what kind of business would 
be carried out at Mr Ss property. Mr S gave an incorrect answer, and I dont think he took 
reasonable care to give the right answer. Further, Im satisfied AXA wouldnt have offered to 
insure Mr S if it had been given the correct answer to its question. So I dont think AXA has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in voiding Mr Ss policy and not paying his claim.
I have  to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, taking into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice 
and good industry practice. Having done so, for the reasons set out above I dont think AXA 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably, and so I dont require it to do anything further. 
my final  decision
My final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the  rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman