K821x#15complaint
Ms D says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds Bank) mis-sold her nine payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policies.
background
Ms D took out nine loans with Lloyds Bank. With each loan, Lloyds Bank  sold her a PPI policy.
Below, Ive included some basic information  about these loans:
Loan ending 8173 (Loan 1): 16 January 2001  to 26 February 2002
Loan ending 2457 (Loan 2): 26 January 2002  to 25 February 2002
Loan ending 7421 (Loan 3): 20 February 2002 to 24 January 2003
Loan ending 1324 (Loan 4): 24 January 2003  to 20 January 2005
Loan ending 4941 (Loan 5): 20 January 2005  to 6 December 2005
Loan ending 8170 (Loan 6): 6 December 2005 to 7 February 2009
Loan ending 5776 (Loan 7): 13 June 2007  to 7 February 2009
Loan ending 0278 (Loan 8): 7 February  2009 to 11 September  2009
Loan ending 0655 (Loan 9): 27 August 2009  to 3 August 2011
Lloyds Bank  has told us Loans  1 and 2 ran concurrently; Loan  3 refinanced Loans 1 and 2; 
Loan 4 refinanced Loan 3; Loan 5 refinanced Loan  4; Loan 6 refinanced Loan 5; Loans 6 
and 7 ran concurrently;  Loan 8 refinanced Loans  6 and 7; Loan 9 refinanced  Loan 8.
The policies sold with Loans 1-7 were single  premium  policies.  This means  Ms D borrowed 
more money to pay for the policies upfront. And she had to pay interest on the extra  she 
borrowed. The policies  sold with Loans 8 and 9 were regular premium policies, which 
means Ms D paid for these policies on a month-by-month basis.
Ms D says all nine PPI policies were mis-sold.
Lloyds Bank  has made Ms D an offer, which shes accepted, for the policies sold with Loans 
1 and 3. So I dont need to look at, or comment on, these policies further.
It also accepts that the type of PPI policy it sold Ms D with Loans 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 wasnt  
suitable for her. When the loans were refinanced, the related policy  was cancelled and Ms D 
received a small refund. But it wasnt enough  to pay off the amount she still owed for PPI. 
And this cost was rolled over into the next loan.  As Ms D had a history of refinancing  loans, 
Lloyds Bank  accepts it shouldnt have recommended she buy this type of policy.
However, it says PPI would have  been  suitable for Ms D if shed paid for it on a month-by-month 
basis instead  as she did with Loans 8 and 9. A regular premium policy can typically be 
cancelled at any time and the consumer doesnt  pay anything after its been cancelled. Lloyds 
Bank has therefore offered to pay Ms D the difference between  the amount she paid and the 
amount she would have paid if she had a regular premium policy with Loans 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7.
Finally, Lloyds Bank doesnt think the policies sold with Loans  8 and 9 were mis-sold.  But it 
has offered to refund some of the money Ms D paid for these policies because it received a 
high level of commission and profit  share.
Ms D doesnt think this is fair. She wants Lloyds  Bank to refund everything  she paid for PPI.
Ref: DRN16676002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The PPI policies sold with Loans 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7
I think Ms D knew she had a choice and chose  to buy PPI with each loan.
Ms D applied for all five loans in a branch of Lloyds Bank.
The loan agreements  for Loans  2, 4 and 5 follow the same format. Under the heading  
Optional Loan Protection Insurance loan, each shows how much Ms D was borrowing 
to pay for PPI and how much shed have to pay each month  as a result. On the same 
page of each agreement,  a separate section for PPI includes two questions:  Optional  
Loan Protection?  and Premium Advanced  as Part of Loan?  Theres  a yes box and a 
no box next to each question, and a typed X in the yes boxes. Ms D has signed  the 
loan agreements just below this section.
The loan agreements  for Loans  6 and 7  which are slightly different to the earlier  loan 
agreements but follow the same  format as each other  show  clearly: how much Ms D 
was borrowing to pay for PPI; how much  shed have to pay each month as a result;  how 
much shed pay for PPI, including  interest,  if the loan ran to term; and, how much 
interest shed pay on the extra she borrowed if the loan ran to term. For each loan, Ms D 
has ticked a box and signed separately  to confirm she wanted to buy PPI.
Lloyds Bank says it recommended Ms D buy PPI with each loan. This means it had to 
take reasonable  steps to make sure the policies was suitable  for her. It accepts that the 
single premium  PPI policies it sold Ms D werent suitable for her because  of the 
likelihood and consequences of her cancelling the policies  early.  I agree that the policies 
were unsuitable  for this reason.  Ive checked to see if there are any other  reasons  why 
the policies were unsuitable  and I dont think there are.
Ms D was eligible for the policies  she was employed and in good health so she 
wouldnt have been affected by any exclusions or limitations which might materially  
affect a self-employed consumer or someone who had a pre-existing medical  condition.
Ms D told us she would  have received full pay for six months and half pay for six months 
if she was off work sick. So she says she didnt need PPI. But she would have had a 
significant drop in her income if she was off work  for more than six months. The PPI 
policies would have  paid out on top of any sick pay and they would have covered her 
loan payments until she returned  to work  or the loan was repaid.
The policies would have  also covered her loan payments for up to a year per claim if 
she lost her job. I appreciate that Ms D feels she was in very secure employment  but 
redundancy was possible  and insurance  is there to protect the insured from the 
unforeseen. The policy also provided life cover.
Ref: DRN16676003Lloyds Bank also had to tell Ms D about the policy  in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so that she could  make  an informed decision about whether or not buy it.
Ms D says Lloyds Bank didnt tell her about  the policies exclusions and limitations, so 
she couldnt make an informed decision. However,  above, Ive explained why I think the 
only thing that made  the policies unsuitable  for Ms D were  their restrictive cancellation 
terms. So I dont think Ms D would have acted differently  if shed known more  about the 
policies significant exclusions and limitations.
I think the loan agreements for Loans 6 and 7 made  the cost of each policy  clear   Ive 
explained how this information was disclosed above.
For the policies  sold with Loans 2, 4 and 5, I think Lloyds Bank could have explained  the 
cost of the policy better than it did. The loan agreements dont say how much Ms D 
would pay for PPI, including interest, if the loans  ran to term, or how much interest shed 
pay on the extra she borrowed if the loans ran to term.
In summary, I think the type of policy Lloyds  Bank  sold Ms D was unsuitable for her 
because of the likelihood and consequences  of her cancelling  the policies early. And I 
dont think Lloyds  Bank explained  the cost of the policies sold with Loans 2, 4 and 5 in a 
way that was clear, fair and not misleading.
In these circumstances, is it fair for Lloyds Bank to pay Ms D the difference  between the 
amount she paid and the amount she would have paid if shed had regular premium 
policies instead?
The Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) writes  the rules for financial businesses and 
DISP App 3 of the FCA Handbook tells businesses how to put things right if they 
mis-sold PPI. DISP  App 3.7.7 E specifically says businesses  can make the type of offer 
Lloyds Bank has made if what  went wrong is limited to:
recommending the consumer buy a single premium PPI policy with cancellation 
terms similar to those in this case without  taking reasonable steps to establish 
whether or not the consumer might repay or refinance  the loan early;
selling the consumer a single premium PPI policy and,
failing  to tell the consumer (a) that shed have  to borrow more to pay for the 
policy and pay interest on the extra she borrowed,  and (b) how much interest 
shed have  to pay;
(if applicable) failing to tell the consumer that the cover would stop before the 
loan was repaid;
(if the cancellation terms  are similar to those in this case) failing to tell the 
consumer the type of refund shed  get if she cancelled  the policy early.
I havent identified  any material  breaches or failings in this case  that arent mentioned  
above  so on the face of it, Lloyds  Bank  can make Ms D the type of offer its made. And 
I havent seen  anything which makes me think this type of offer isnt fair for Ms D.
Put simply, Lloyds  Bank  says PPI would have been suitable for Ms D if shed paid for it 
on a month-by-month  basis. And I agree. If Ms D had had regular premium policies, she 
could have refinanced her loans at any time and cancelled the policies, and she 
wouldnt have paid any more for PPI. And because consumers dont have to pay interest 
on regular premium policies, the cost is clearer and easier to understand.
Ref: DRN16676004All things  considered, I think Lloyds Bank  has offered  Ms D fair compensation for the 
PPI policies sold with Loans 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7. The fact that it offered a full refund for the 
policies she bought with Loans  1 and 3 doesnt  change that.
The PPI policies sold with Loans 8 and 9
Ive dont think these  policies were mis-sold because:
I think Ms D knew she had a choice and chose  to buy PPI with each loan.
The loan agreements  follow the same format and both explicitly  say that PPI is optional. 
Ms D has ticked  a box and signed separately to confirm she wanted  to buy PPI with 
each loan.
Ms Ds circumstances  were the same as before: she was working for the same  
employer and she was still in good health. The policies benefits, and main exclusions 
and limitations, were very similar to the PPI policies she had before. So, as the policies 
were similar and her circumstances  were the same,  I think these policies were suitable  
for her too  for the reasons Ive explained  above.
The cost of PPI was shown on both loan agreements  so Ms D would  have understood 
how much she needed  to pay each month.
As before, its possible Lloyds Bank  didnt  point out the main things the policies didnt 
cover. But, again, Ms D doesnt appear to have been  materially  affected by any of them. 
So I dont  think  she would  have  acted differently is shed known more about  the policies 
main exclusions  and limitations.
So I dont  think Lloyds  Bank needs to refund the full cost of the PPI policies.
But Lloyds Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms D because:
Lloyds Bank received a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium). It should have told Ms D this and it didnt  and this was unfair.
To put things  right, Lloyds Bank  has offered to pay back  the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  this offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds Bank  should  pay back to Ms D the extra she paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI she had with 
Loans 8 and 9. Lloyds  Bank should also pay Ms D simple interest* at a rate of 8% per year 
on each payment.
*Businesses have to deduct basic rate tax from this interest. Ms D can claim back the tax if 
she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN16676005my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think Lloyds Bank PLC has paid Ms D fair compensation for 
the PPI policies it sold her with Loans  2, 4, 5, 6 and 7.
I dont think the PPI policies sold with Loans  8 and 9 were  mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC 
doesnt have to refund the full cost of the PPI policies.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Ms D any commission  and profit  share it 
received that was more than 50% of the PPI premium in the way Ive described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1667600