K822xcomplaint
Ms A complains  that Barclays Bank  Plc should  have helped  her avoid several  years  of
charges for Payment  Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) non-compliance on
her card payment facility. She wants a refund  of those charges, plus interest,  since 2012.
background 
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
response to my provisional  findings
Barclays provided no response to my provisional findings.
Ms A said that contrary to my provisional conclusion that Barclays dont send field 
representatives to a business the size of hers, she had been visited regularly by Barclays  
business managers. 
Ive reconsidered  my provisional conclusion on this matter in light of Ms As response.
As far as I understand, the business  managers Ms A has regularly seen are not directly  
connected to Barclaycard  Payment Solutions  (BPS)  the part of the banks business that 
Ms A has the merchant  services contract with, and that deal only with card payments. 
Barclays said BPS dont provide representatives  to visit a business that handles the number 
of card payments  such as Ms As. I understand the business managers Ms A referred to 
seeing are contacting her in relation to her business banking arrangements, rather  than to do 
with card acceptance facilities.
Im not minded  to change my provisional  conclusion on this matter. 
Ms A also said that she felt that Barclays should have a copy of the letter they said they sent 
her about  the change  of PCI DSS charging rate. And because  they didnt have a copy of it, 
and she didnt receive the original, she felt it more likely they didnt send it to her. 
Ive reconsidered  my provisional conclusion on this matter also in light of Ms As response. 
Banks are not required by regulation  to keep (or even make) copies of every item of 
correspondence they send out. And Ive seen evidence that Barclays had the correct 
address for Ms A  they sent regular account statements to her. Ive also seen that Ms As 
account had been marked to receive the letter.  
Im not minded  to change my provisional  conclusion on this matter.
Ref: DRN17867922my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and, in more detail in my provisional  decision, my final 
decision is that I uphold  this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Barclays Bank 
Plc to:
1)Pay Ms A £750 compensation as they have already offered to do
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020
Adrian Bird
ombudsman
copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Ms A complains  that Barclays Bank  Plc should  have helped  her avoid several  years  of
charges for Payment  Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) non-compliance on
her card payment facility. She wants a refund  of those charges, plus interest,  since 2012.
background
Ref: DRN17867923Ms A started  a Barclays contract  in 2012. This was for card payment processing services  for
her business, F.
During a card payment transaction in late 2018, where Ms A was in contact  with Barclays on
the phone, she was told that she was non-compliant for PCI DSS. They  told her a short  
process over the phone would make her compliant.  Ms A completed the process  and her
business became  compliant in late 2018.
Ms A then realised that she had been paying  a non-compliance fee since  2012. She
complained to Barclays, saying they should  have helped her get compliant much sooner,
saving her several hundreds of pounds. And she said Barclays  should have told her when
visiting her premises, but they didnt.
In their final response letter, Barclays said that theyd  provided many documents to Ms A
over several years. These included  a merchant guide, a terms and conditions  document,
periodic statements and other letters, reminding her of the need to comply, and of her non-
compliance, and the costs  her business was incurring. They offered Ms A a refund of three 
months PCI DSS non-compliance charges,  but they rejected Ms As claim for a full refund of 
charges from 2012 to late 2018. So she complained to us.
An investigator looked at Ms As complaint and partially upheld  it. He was satisfied that Ms A
had been given enough information at the start of the contract with Barclays, and ongoing
through periodic  statements and letters. He said that Ms A had been  sent many  references
to non-compliance,  and the charges caused  by it. But when the rate of non-compliance
charging doubled in 2013- from 0.15% to 0.30%- the investigator showed Barclays could  not
provide clear  evidence  that they had told Ms A. As a result  of our investigation, Barclays
offered compensation of £750  but didnt accept  that they should pay all the fees Ms A had
paid for non-compliance since 2012. And Barclays didnt agree with the investigator that they
should refund the additional 0.15% which was charged from late 2013 to 2018.
Ms A and Barclays disagreed with the investigators  view, and the complaint has been
passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although there isnt a copy of the signed contract  available, I cant  see that either  Ms A or
Barclays are disputing  that a contract exists. I am aware that Ms A and her ex-husband
entered into the contract and that Ms A feels,  in all likelihood,  that her ex-husband took part
in any conversations with Barclays  about  it at the beginning.
Once Ms A chose to take sole responsibility  for the contract after her divorce, I dont think  its
fair or reasonable  to say Barclays should have known that the person theyd likely discussed
the opening of the contract  with no longer  had any involvement with it. And I cant see that
Ms A contacted Barclays  to tell them. So I cant say Barclays should  have done anything
differently at that time.
written communications
Ref: DRN17867924The merchant terms and conditions document available  to Ms A when the contract  started
contains a section on what PCI DSS is, and what the merchant, Ms A, had to do to meet its
requirements. Ms A might not have  gathered  from this document alone the significance of
PCI DSS compliance as part of the overall  arrangements.
Barclays also made another document available to Ms A at the beginning  of the contract-  the
merchant procedure guide. There is a section on PCI DSS compliance,  though  Ms A might
again not have gathered from this document alone  its significance as part of the overall
arrangements.
But I have seen that frequent periodic statements were sent to Ms A from 2012 to 2108,
many of them showing a reminder about  PCI DSS compliance. The statements also show
the card payments for the statement period and the non-compliance charge relating to them.
Ive seen evidence  of statements from 2012  to 2015 that contain either a warning about PCI
DSS compliance or that warning plus non-compliance costs for the transactions.  Statements
throughout the period  2012 to 2018  show non-compliance fees, until Ms A became 
compliant in late 2018.
Barclays also sent a letter to Ms A in early 2018 referring to a fault in the charging  of non-
compliance fees that they were putting right the following month. The letter says that if Ms A 
had validated  her compliance that month,  she would not be charged for the next month. I
think this is a clear indication to Ms A that by becoming compliant, charges stop.
I do think the combined effect  of the merchant  terms and conditions document,  the merchant
procedure guide  and the regular and frequent account statements sufficiently persuasive
that Ms A would  have been well informed enough  to have taken steps  to become compliant
at any stage during  the contract.
I think its fair for Barclays  to expect Ms A to see the statement references  to                    
non-compliance, and the costs, and then respond by checking  the merchant guide, the terms 
and conditions, or by contacting Barclays to find out how she could become compliant. And I 
think that Barclays have  satisfied the Financial  Conduct Authoritys requirement  to give Ms A 
clear information, and have kept her appropriately informed during and after the point of 
sale. The non-compliance charge is as prominent  on the statements as other charges.
Ms A says that she is a non-native English speaker and does not know  what  the words
compliant and non-compliant  mean. I dont think its reasonable for Barclays to have
known this, as I havent  seen  that Ms A had asked for adjustments  to be made  by Barclays
to allow  her to better understand their communications before late 2018. Because there is
potential for Ms A not to understand  the meaning  of everything she received from Barclays,  I
do think it was open to her to have sought assistance from Barclays or somebody else to
help her in such matters to do with running her business. Had she done so, she would most
likely have had an opportunity to become compliant and stop the charges.
Ms A feels that Barclays made profit from not telling her about PCI DSS non-compliance.
That isnt my understanding of the way non-compliance  fees work.  But in any event, for the
reasons Ive said, I cant say that Barclays kept the need to become compliant from Ms A, for
their financial  benefit or any other reason.
Im satisfied that Barclays have acted  fairly  with their regular written attempts to remind Ms A
about becoming PCI DSS compliant and the cost to her of not doing so.
Ref: DRN17867925personal visits by Barclays to Ms As business
Barclays say Ms As business takes a relatively low number of monthly card payments and
they dont offer on-site card payment  services  support for businesses of Ms As size. This
seems a fair and proportionate approach by Barclays. I wouldnt expect Barclays  to send
field representatives on visits to her business to reinforce the reminders  about  PCI DSS
compliance already  displayed  on many  of her regular statements, or draw  her attention to
the charges shown on those statements.
the increase  in the non-compliance charge  rate
During the contract, Barclays varied  the amount of the PCI DSS non-compliance charge.
Whilst they havent been able to provide evidence that they informed Ms A at the time of this
variation in writing,  I have  considered whether it was likely they sent her the letter. Their
records show they held the correct address for Ms A at the time of the charging  rate change.
And Barclays have provided  evidence that she was included in their notification  process,
which was an automated one. On balance, Im satisfied Barclays did what it needed to do in
terms of sending notification.
On the other hand, Ms A has said she never  received  the notification. Its possible that
Barclays sent it, but for some other reason  it didnt reach her. So for a period  of time at least,
I can accept Ms A might  have been unaware of the increase. But I am also mindful that they
did send regular statements which showed the charge amount and the increased rate after it
changed. After  a reasonable period Ms A ought to have been aware of the information, even
if she didnt get the original  notification.
I think that its reasonable that no more than 18 months to two years after the change  to the
charge amount, Ms A would have received enough additional information to be aware  of the
new charge amount and rate. With this in mind,  I think  Barclays  offer of compensation of
£750 is sufficient  compensation to address any concerns she has in this respect.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that for the reasons  Ive set out above,  I propose
Barclays Bank Plc should pay Ms A £750  compensation as they have  already offered  to do.
Ref: DRN1786792