K821x#15complaint
Miss W has complained about short-term  loans granted to her by CashEuroNet  UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Miss W says she couldnt  afford these loans and that QuickQuid 
didnt take appropriate steps to check whether she could  afford  them when she took them  
out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed three short-term loans for Miss W between January 2014 and 
August 2016.  Each loan was repayable over between  two and three months,  with the 
exception of loan 2. Loan 2 was a flexible credit  agreement (flex-credit). This was a credit  
facility that allowed Miss W to draw down  money up to a pre-agreed credit limit, with a view 
to repaying it  potentially over a period of up to 10 months.
Ive set out a summary of the lending below.
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount  (£)no. of 
instalments  duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 14/01/2014 200 2 259
flex credit application credit limithighest estimated monthly 
repayment due (£)
2 05/05/2014 400 131
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount  (£)no. of 
instalments  duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
3 21/08/2016 400 3 496
One of our adjudicators has looked into Miss Ws complaint already and recommended the 
complaint be upheld in part. He initially felt the checks  QuickQuid carried out on loans 1 and 
3 werent proportionate.  And he thought that had QuickQuid  carried  out proportionate checks  
on these loans, it wouldve concluded that loan 3 wouldve been unaffordable  for Miss W, 
and would not have agreed  to it.
QuickQuid initially disagreed with the findings  regarding loan 3. And Miss W raised no new 
arguments in response  to the adjudicators view. 
 
However after a further review, the adjudicator took into account  the points made by 
QuickQuid in response to the view, and revised  his opinion. While  he still considered the 
checks carried out on loan 3 werent  proportionate,  he thought that had QuickQuid carried  
out proportionate checks, it wouldve likely  concluded that loan 3 wouldve been affordable 
for Miss W, and that therefore, QuickQuid was not wrong in approving  this application.  
Miss W disagreed with the findings  regarding loan 3, but still raised no new arguments 
regarding loans 1 and 2. So as no agreements been reached at this stage, the case has 
come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
As it seems loans 1 and 2 are no longer in dispute,  my decision will focus on QuickQuids 
decision to approve  the remaining loan  loan 3.
Ref: DRN17042002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QuickQuid initially said that it did conduct  appropriate and proportionate affordability
assessments. It said that it completed  credit/affordability checks prior to lending  and found 
nothing that would suggest  the loans being issued were not affordable. This included but 
was not limited to reviewing Miss Ws credit file to determine her financial status at the time. 
QuickQuid found  no reason  not to provide Miss W with financial assistance.
It said it performed an assessment of affordability  and credit  worthiness to verify the 
reasonableness of her self-reported income. The checks incorporated current financial  
commitments, credit  inquiries, credit scoring information from Credit Reference  Agencies, 
plus various other third party reports.  And there  was nothing in the checks to suggest that 
Miss W would have  trouble in meeting  her repayments. As a result,  the loans were approved 
using the information provided during Miss Ws applications as she satisfied our lending 
criteria at the time.
At the time Miss W, took out loan 3, she had been borrowing from QuickQuid in total for 
around two and a half years. Her first loan was a payday loan repayable  over three  months, 
followed by a flex credit account  that ran for just over a year. 
However, at the time Miss W applied for loan 3, thered  been  more than a years  gap 
between her repaying her previous loan, and her making this application.  So while  there had 
been a long overall relationship, I think its fair for QuickQuid  to have thought  that Miss W 
may have  not been as financially reliant on short-term lending,  as it may have thought, had 
she taken out her third loan straight  after her flex-credit account was settled. 
Therefore, I think proportionate  checks at this time, shouldve  extended  to QuickQuid making  
enquiries into Miss Ws monthly income,  as well as her monthly expenditure for her regular 
living costs,  regular credit  commitments. And looking  specifically, into whether she had any 
other-short term lending commitments at this time.
I can see that QuickQuid  has captured some information about Miss Ws financial 
circumstances. Its recorded her monthly income as £1,400. And its also taken details of her 
regular monthly expenditure, which it has recorded as £325.  This seems to include £275  of 
general living costs,  and £50 a month in credit  commitments. This seems  to have left her 
with a disposable monthly income around £1,075.
However, I think had QuickQuid made specific enquiries into Miss Ws short-term  lending 
commitments, it wouldve seen that at the time she applied for loan 3, she actually owed 
over £600  to other short-term lenders that month.  This meant  that her disposable monthly 
income was actually closer to £400 a month. And I think this is the figure QuickQuid 
shouldve taken into account when assessing the affordability of this loan for Miss W.
But loan 3 was due to repaid over a period  of three  months. For the first two months, these 
repayments consisted of interest  alone, and were for £128  and £99 respectively. These were 
followed by a larger repayment of interest  and capital in month  3 of £496.
Ref: DRN17042003In Miss Ws case, I cant see anything at this point that wouldve led QuickQuid to believe 
that Miss W had become  dependent  on this type of lending, especially as it had been  over a 
year since  shed repaid  her previous  loan. 
So in this instance, I dont think it was unreasonable for QuickQuid to think  that Miss W could 
have held back some  of her disposable income from months 1 and 2, to meet the repayment 
that fell due in month 3. And based  on the fact she appeared to have disposable monthly  
income of around  £400 a month,  this seemed to be sufficient in order  for her to do so.
Therefore I dont think it was unreasonable for QuickQuid to have concluded  that loan 3 
wouldve been affordable for Miss W. So subsequently I dont think it was wrong in approving 
this application.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2019 .
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1704200