K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) have administered  
her mortgage account. Shes also unhappy the bank declined  her application to remove  her 
ex-husband from the mortgage.
background
In 2008, Ms M and her ex-husband jointly took out a mortgage with Halifax.  Since then, 
Ms M and her ex-husband have  divorced.  And in 2014, a consent  order was issued stating  
that Ms M would take full responsibility for the mortgage moving forward.
Since 2014, Ms M has applied to Halifax to take the full mortgage into her name,  removing 
her ex-husband. Ms M says shes applied  every year since  2014.  The latest application 
Halifax have a record of was in 2017,  which they declined due to concerns with Ms Ms 
credit score.
In both 2017 and 2018, Halifax wrote to Ms M following reviews theyd carried out of the 
mortgage account. These letters explained  that they had refunded some arrears 
management fees and charges, interest, and re-calculated her contractual  monthly payment 
(CMP) following these changes to the account.  In June  2018, Halifax  also wrote to Ms M 
about a late payment.
Ms M complained to Halifax. She was concerned  that her mortgage was in arrears, and she 
wasnt happy with how Halifax were applying her monthly payments to the account. She was 
worried about the impact  this was having on her credit score. She also complained  about  
their decision  to decline her application to remove her ex-husband from the mortgage.
Halifax upheld the complaint and paid Ms M a total of £310. £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the letters theyd sent her, and £60 to cover the costs shed 
incurred from having to call the bank so many times to resolve  the issue.  They  explained that 
following the account review in June  2018, they changed the way they applied  advance 
payments to the account. They no longer used advance payments to cover  the following 
payment due  but they took it off the overall  outstanding  balance,  which  in turn reduced  the 
CMP due each month. As a result, an automated letter was sent to Ms M to advise of a late 
payment in June  2018.
Halifax apologised to Ms M for this, and reassured her that the mortgage account wasnt in 
arrears. They explained the reason they declined Ms Ms application to take the mortgage 
into her sole name in 2017,  was that her credit score didnt meet  their criteria at the time. But 
they gave her information about what to do if she wanted to apply again. However, Ms M has 
since re-mortgaged with another lender.
Ms M brought her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into things. She 
explained that she thought Halifaxs offer of compensation was fair, and so didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Ms M disagreed, so the complaints been  passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN15281312my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
application to transfer the mortgage into Ms Ms sole name
Ms M said shes  applied to transfer the mortgage into her own name  every  year,  following 
2014. However, Halifax have only been able to provide information about one application 
which Ms M made in 2017. There are some  notes that show  a conversation did take place in 
2014 about an application, but it seems this didnt go any further.
Ms M has confirmed shes been paying the mortgage on her own,  which shows  she can 
afford it without her ex-husbands contribution. So she thinks  Halifax should have transferred 
the mortgage into her sole name, taking her ex-husband off, and I can appreciate why she 
feels this way. However, Halifax need to ensure that theyre lending responsibly, and so its 
reasonable that they would carry out checks before agreeing to make such  a change to the 
mortgage.
In 2017, Halifax  declined Ms Ms application, as they were concerned about her credit score.  
Whilst Halifax use their own credit  score to assess applications, I have seen a copy of 
Ms Ms own historic credit file from November 2016.  Although this isnt the exact same 
information Halifax would have used when making their decision,  I understand Halifaxs  
concerns, given Ms Ms external credit score around  that time.
 
The regulators rules do say that Halifax dont have to consider whether Ms M can afford  the 
mortgage on her own, if it would be in her best interests to take sole responsibility for the 
borrowing. Whilst I appreciate it seems Ms Ms position has improved considerably now, I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Halifax to be concerned  about  her financial history and 
commitments at the time she applied in 2017. 
Whilst the mortgage remained in joint names,  there  was less risk associated with the 
mortgage for both Ms M and Halifax. If things  did go wrong with the mortgage, both Ms M 
and her ex-husband would have been  liable for the debt as things stood. Whereas if Ms M 
took over the full mortgage, she would have  carried  this risk on her own. I appreciate  that 
with the benefit of hindsight, Ms M was able to get things back  on track and has now been 
able to re-mortgage with another lender. But this couldnt have been known at the time 
Halifax assessed the application  in 2017. And so this doesnt  mean  their decision at the time 
was unfair.  
Considering everything, I understand why Halifax were concerned about Ms Ms credit score 
at the time she applied  to take over the full mortgage on her own in 2017. And so I dont 
think their decision to decline  the application was unfair based on what they knew at the 
time. On balance, if Ms M had applied to remove  her ex-husband every year since  2014 as 
shes said she did  I think its likely Halifax would have had similar concerns to the ones 
they had in 2017. I say this because it seems  Ms Ms credit  history had been a concern for 
some time  based  on the report Ive seen  from 2016.
administration of the mortgage account
Based on the correspondence Halifax sent Ms M about the mortgage in 2017 and 2018,  I 
understand why she would  be confused and concerned  about  the position  of the account. 
Ref: DRN15281313Ive looked at the transaction history of the mortgage, and can see that Ms M has been 
paying just more than the full CMP every month in recent years. So getting letters referring 
to arrears and charges  would have been  confusing.  I can also see from the notes  that it took 
Halifax some  time to explain what had happened, and reassure her about  the position  of the 
mortgage  which they confirmed wasnt in arrears. 
Once Halifax changed the way they applied advance payments to mortgage balances,  I think 
they should have written  to Ms M to tell her about  this  as this is how shes  paid her 
mortgage for some time. However,  when Ms M did question it, Halifax did eventually  explain 
what had happened, and ensured she wasnt affected negatively  by the change.  They 
assured her that her credit file hadnt  been  affected and her mortgage was up to date. 
I do think Halifax have caused  Ms M confusion  here.  But Im not persuaded theres been any 
other detriment caused by Halifaxs  actions  in the way theyve administered Ms Ms account 
in 2017 and 2018. As a result, Im satisfied the £250  Halifax have paid Ms M to apologise for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  is a fair amount to put things right. This is in addition  
to the £60 theyve also paid to compensate for call costs Ms M incurred  when trying  to find 
out what had happened.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1528131