K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax gave  him misinformation  and poor 
customer service  and wont  refund him under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75). 
background 
I already set out the background to this complaint in my earlier  provisional  decision. But to 
help with ease  of reading, I set out the background again here.
Mr L booked and paid for a special holiday, through a company Ill call R which  was 
supplied by another company, Ill call RO. There were a number of optional excursions he 
and his wife were looking forward to taking whilst on the holiday.
When he received the tour and excursions information, he found it unclear and confusing. 
He spent a considerable amount of time attempting to clarify exactly which  trips would be 
available when he and his wife went on the holiday.  
Eventually he discovered that some of the excursions he wanted to take wouldnt be 
available on the dates of his holiday.  Mr L says the sole reason they booked this holiday was 
to take advantage of some once in a lifetime trip. This was a very special holiday following a 
period of ill health and both he and his wife felt the holiday  had been misrepresented  to 
them.
Mr L complained to company R. It said there  were  excursions available to Mr and Mrs L, 
but some  would not be possible  due to the weather  conditions at the time Mr L had booked 
the holiday. It offered to change the holiday dates but that would incur a further  cost.  Mr L 
remained very unhappy he asked either that the holiday  be rebooked at no cost to him or 
that the holiday should be cancelled  with a full refund. Company R said this wasnt  possible 
and Mr L could either go on the holiday  as booked or change  the dates at the additional 
cost.
On 30 August 2018, Mr L complained to Halifax and disputed the credit card payment he 
had made,  as he felt strongly the holiday had been  misrepresented to him. The Halifax  
adviser took all the information and explained  a dispute would be raised with the company.
Mr L didnt receive a response and made  numerous phone calls attempting to chase up what 
was happening to the dispute. He asked for written confirmation that there was a valid S75 
claim in progress but still didnt receive  a response, dissatisfied Mr L complained  to Halifax.
In its final response dated 18 December 2018, Halifax  said it had raised a dispute with the 
merchant who had 45 days  to challenge  the dispute.  It did and provided evidence  that the 
transaction was valid. After assessing the information, Halifax agreed  it couldnt uphold the 
dispute and wrote to Mr L to confirm the outcome. It did acknowledge that Mr L had received  
poor customer service and offered £75 in recognition  of this.
Mr L asked this service to look into matters for him. An investigator reviewed all he 
information. He explained Section 75 is a section of the Consumer Credit Act that 
allows the borrower to hold the credit  provider jointly and severally liable for costs  if 
there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the 
Ref: DRN13218442goods or services.  The cost of the goods  or services must be within  £100 and 
£30,000.
For a claim to be successful there are some  conditions  that need to be met. One of the 
conditions that needs to be met relates to whom  the payment  is made to and who is 
the provider of the goods and services. This is known as the debtor-creditor-supplier  
(DCS) chain, which is set out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
For a claim to be valid there needs  to be three  parties involved in the transaction;  the 
debtor, who would be the person purchasing the goods, the creditor,  who would be the 
credit card company, and the supplier, the party supplying the goods and services. If 
there are any other parties involved in the transaction,  then it is likely  to break  the DCS 
chain and the claim would be invalid.
In this case, when  Mr L purchased his holiday the supplier would be Company RO, 
but the payment wasnt made  to them directly. The payment  was instead made to 
Company R who then passed the funds onto the supplier. As the payment was 
made to a third-party company, rather than the supplier directly, the DCS link was 
broken making  the claim invalid and there being  no liability  on Halifax to reimburse  
the costs.
He agreed Halifax  has provided M L with poor customer service but felt £75 was fair and 
reasonable compensation and didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr L disagreed. He says he was advised  by a Halifax  representative not to go on the holiday 
as that would make the S75 claim  harder to prove. Hes now lost all his money and hasnt 
been on the holiday which he feels is very unfair. He asked for an ombudsman review.
As I already mentioned,  I looked at Mr Ls complaint in a provisional  decision. 
In summary  I explained Im only considering  the actions of Halifax  about the dispute Mr L 
raised and the service  he received.  
I looked into the two mechanisms  open to Halifax  namely chargeback and section 75  
which both turned out not to be appropriate  or applicable. I said while this is no doubt 
disappointing to Mr L, and might not seem fair, my role is to ascertain if I think  the advice 
Halifax gave, and the action it took or didnt  take,  was correct.
I found, in respect  of the section 75 claim, unfortunately what  Mr Ls been  advised about the 
D-C-S link being broken  is correct.  Because his credit card payment didnt go directly from 
the creditor to supplier of the holiday (Company RO) and instead was paid to Company R, it 
fulfilled its obligations  in making payment to Company RO, and so Halifax has correctly said 
it cant uphold a S75 claim.
But I said I though  Halifax should  have known from early  in the complaint that it was not 
going to uphold it because there was no valid d-c-s relationship. I cant  see why it did not tell 
him much sooner. Its the expert - not Mr L  as he has quite rightly  pointed out.
I explained I listened to several calls, in relation to this complaint, from Mr Ls initial  raising of 
the dispute to his chasing up a response from Halifax. In the first telephone call, there are 
several references to more than one company being involved. Mrs L also speaks to the 
Halifax representative during this call and she explains  that she has called and emailed 
Ref: DRN13218443Company R and then as she has become  more  concerned about  the itinerary, she has 
called Company RO. During  this call, I also find the Halifax representative to be less than 
impartial and doesnt fully explain the process  to Mr L. He refers  to the company not 
wanting the bank to be involved and says the bank will take the money  back  and ask it to 
prove it. I can understand why Mr L came  away with raised  expectations, as though, there 
would be no issue with his dispute.  That said, I explained I didnt hear, in any of these calls, 
any advice to Mr L suggesting he shouldnt go on the holiday.  I appreciate this was a difficult  
decision for Mr L but unfortunately it was his decision not to go on the holiday, I havent 
heard anything I the calls which could be construed as advice regarding whether  he should 
go or not from any Halifax representative  and so I cant fairly hold them responsible  for what 
was Mr Ls decision.
But, I said, given Mr L made it clear at the start this was about a holiday within  a few months, 
I understood why he became more and more frustrated with Halifaxs failure to provide  him 
with written confirmation.
He chased the outcome several times  and I noted  he was given a telephone number that 
seemed to put him through to the wrong  department  and left him waiting to be transferred  on 
a number of occasions.  I  said I was persuaded there had been  delays  in responding to Mr L 
and providing  him with relevant information. I know Halifax has already acknowledged it 
could have handled things better, but I dont think £75 goes far enough. I said I was 
persuaded Halifax should pay Mr L £150  in addition to the £75 its already offered to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience its likely its actions caused  him to 
experience.
I said I fully appreciated  this will come as a disappointment to Mr L, as Im aware  he wanted 
a full refund  of the cost of the holiday.  But as Ive explained because the d-c-s relationship  
isnt valid I cant ask Halifax  to fairly  do that.
I invited the parties  to respond to my provisional  decision  should  they wish to do that.
Halifax accepted  my provisional findings  and agreed  to pay Mr L an additional £150 in 
respect of the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Mr L was very disappointed with the outcome of my provisional decision.  He feels very let 
down by Halifax and remains of the view a Halifax representative told him not to go on the 
holiday. Had it not been for this advice,  he says he wouldve gone, albeit reluctantly. He 
assumed his credit card would be a second line of defence after feeling  his holiday had been 
mis-sold and is understandably upset that the redress offered doesnt  over the cost of the 
holiday.
my findings
I thank Mr L and Halifax for their responses.  Ive considered all the available  evidence and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Neither Mr L nor Halifax have sent me any new information to consider in relation  to this 
complaint. Halifax have agreed  with my findings and whilst I sympathise with Mr L and 
understand his disappointment, Ive no basis on which to change  the conclusions I reached 
in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN13218444In summary,  as the d-c-s relationship isnt valid, Halifax isnt able to uphold  the S75 claim 
made by Mr L as Ive explained. I understand Mr L says he really  wasnt aware of this but 
that doesnt mean that I can fairly ask Halifax to uphold a claim where the d-c-s link was 
broken. That also means  Im not able to direct Halifax to refund the cost of the holiday.
I have listened  to all the available telephone recordings, and I havent been  able to hear 
anything in these  calls that suggest a Halifax representative told him not to go on the 
holiday. I appreciate  the decision not to go on this holiday was a difficult  one and I can 
understand why Mr L had raised expectations  that his claim would be successful, but 
ultimately, the decision not to go or change  the dates of the holiday,  remain his decision and 
Im not able to fairly hold Halifax responsible, based  on the information available.
I understand Mr L feels the suggested compensation is derisory,  but as I have  already  said 
Im not able to direct  Halifax  to refund the cost of the holiday.  Whilst I appreciate  Mr L feels  
disappointed, given  the relatively  modest  amounts this service generally awards for distress  
and inconvenience  I consider a total award of £225  (£75+£150) is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I direct Bank of Scotland plc to:
pay Mr L £150 for distress and inconvenience  in addition to the £75 its already 
offered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1321844