K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds  Bank Plc  trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester Plc (C&G) - mis-
sold them  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out PPI policies  alongside  further advances  against their mortgage in 
2002 and 2003. They paid a monthly amount for each policy.  All the policies  were  in both 
Mr and Mrs Ms names. The policies taken in 2002  had the benefit  split equally between 
Mr and Mrs M. The polices taken out in 2003  were split 60% to Mr M and 40% to Mrs M. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
With each policy, C&G  should have  made  it clear to Mr and Mrs M that they had a choice in 
buying the PPI. Mr and Mrs M say it they were  led to believe they wouldnt get the borrowing 
if they didnt take the PPI. C&G has said Mr and Mrs M wouldve been aware they had a 
choice about buying the policy  each time.  And its provided us with copies of the lending  and 
PPI documents  Mr and Mrs M completed at the time of each sale. 
I can see on each additional borrowing  application form, there was a section for the PPI. In 
this section it asks applicants to tick to confirm they either wanted to take out the policy or 
that they didnt  want  to. There  is nothing to say that the lending  is reliant  on the PPI being 
taken. If Mr and Mrs M didnt want the PPI, they couldve ticked to say they didnt.
There is a separate  proposal form for the PPI which - in both 2002  and 2003 - has been 
completed for each  policy and Mr and Mrs M have also signed. This leads  me to think that 
there was a discussion, on each occasion,  around  the policy and Mr and Mrs M have 
selected the level of cover which  best suited their circumstances at the time. 
So taking everything into account, I think its most likely that C&G made Mr and Mrs M aware 
that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and they chose to take it  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this now. 
C&G recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had to make sure the policy was right for 
them. From what  Ive seen, it seems to have  been suitable for them based on their 
circumstances at the time. Ill explain why:
They met the policys requirements so were eligible for it.
Both Mr and Mrs M say they wouldve  received sick pay benefits  from their 
employers. In the event of a successful claim. But each PPI cover  wouldve paid their 
Ref: DRN18686542mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if Mr and Mrs M were unable to work due 
to being too unwell. It would have also covered them if they became unemployed. 
The policies wouldve paid out alongside their employee benefits. 
Mr and Mrs M say they had savings they couldve  used. Looking  at the lending 
applications, it seems like they were borrowing extra to consolidate debts and to 
make home improvements so its not clear if any savings they had were already 
earmarked for other things. In any event having the PPI wouldve meant that if either 
of them  was too unwell or became unemployed, they couldve used any savings they 
had for other essential things. 
Mr M has said he had a medical condition at the time of the sales.  Ive thought  
carefully about everything Mr M has told us about  this condition. And whilst its not 
clear if C&G highlighted the significance of the terms surround pre-existing medical 
conditions, I think even if it did, Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have been put off buying the 
PPI. I say this because Ive checked the policy documents and although  some  PPI 
policies excluded pre-existing  medical conditions outright,  this policy  wouldve  only 
excluded Mr M for claiming for the first 24 months but it wouldve covered  him after 
this.
Taking into account Mr Ms circumstances at the time, although I can see from what 
Mr M has told us the condition could have lasting  effects, importantly it looks  like the 
condition was managed and hadnt  caused Mr M to take any time off work  due to it. 
It doesnt look like there was anything else about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances that 
wouldve made it difficult for them to claim. For example, they didnt have any 
unusual working  patterns.  
I think C&G  couldve  explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, I 
think Mr and Mrs M would  still have bought it. Mr and Mrs M were taking on a number of 
large financial commitments secured against  their home.  So I think  they wouldve wanted  the 
security of knowing their mortgage  repayments  were covered if either of them were too sick 
to work or became  unemployed. And it doesnt look like the policy was unaffordable for 
them.  
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them,  C&G  shouldve  taken reasonable steps  to 
point out the main things the policy didnt cover to Mr and Mrs M. I dont know  if C&G did 
point these things  out. But Ive explained why I think the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs M. And 
I dont think clearer information wouldve changed their decision.  I think they still would have 
bought it. I say this for the same reasons I think the policy  was suitable for them. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result  of 
anything C&G mightve done wrong.  So it doesnt have to pay back all the costs  to 
Mr and Mrs M. 
But C&G has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
C&G  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  C&G  didnt  tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN18686543To put that right, C&G has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 June  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1868654