K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained that Nationwide Building Society will not refund any commission it 
received from her loan payment protection insurance (PPI) premiums for the policy she took 
out in 2004.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mrs Ds complaint  about  commission. Thats 
because weve already looked  into a complaint  from Mrs D about the sale of her PPI. And as 
we concluded  our investigation  of that, we cant  look into that complaint again.
Mrs D has told us she is unhappy  with the outcome of that earlier  investigation. She says 
she has provided information that shows we were misled. And shes said she completed an 
application form that would show she didnt apply for the PPI. Shes  also said she didnt need 
the PPI, she didnt claim on it and Nationwide treated  her unfairly  by adding it to her loan. 
But all these points relate either to the sale of the PPI policy  or our investigation of Mrs Ds 
complaint about  that sale  which has already been  concluded. And, as Ive said above, we 
cant look into that again. So Im not considering  that here. My decision  deals  with Mrs Ds 
complaint about  commission.
Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint. I know my decision will disappoint Mrs D. Ill explain 
why Im not upholding  her complaint.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
Nationwide has given  me information  that shows Mrs Ds loan was taken out in 2004  and 
ended in 2006. Mrs D has pointed out that the loan had a five year term and so could have 
run until 2009. She says this means the agreement was still applicable until March 2009.  But 
Mrs Ds credit agreement didnt  actually  run until 2009 because  she repaid it earlier, in 2006. 
So, based  on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment or the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure  of commission  apply here.
Ref: DRN19122872So Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mrs D paid for the PPI she had 
with her loan.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1912287