K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to make a proper  chargeback claim and 
rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer credit Act 1974  in respect of a faulty  kitchen
Background
Mr G ordered a new kitchen from a supplier I will call W, on a supply only basis.  He and his 
wife wanted wall units with spotlights inside and LED strips underneath.  Apparently the 
cabinets he saw in the showroom had this configuration. When  the cupboards  were  
delivered they didnt have  spotlights. They were installed and Mr G complained. W offered 
£250 compensation and later it agreed  to replace the cabinets, but it refused to pay for their 
installation.
Mr G asked the bank  to make a chargeback  claim for £1,341.66, but this was rejected by the 
retailer and its bank.  It made second attempt on behalf of Mr G, but with no success.  The 
bank then treated  the claim as a section  75 matter and asked for an independent report 
confirming the cabinets were  not as ordered.  Mr G asked for the full sum to be repaid.  When 
the bank learned  W was prepared  to supply replacement cabinets it offered to cover the 
installation cost subject  to Mr G providing an estimate. It says it didnt receive an estimate.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He noted the invoice and contract  stated: 
LED Standard Flat Strip Lights  and Frosted Glass Door Illuminated  Wall Units. 
While Mr G had said he thought he was ordering cabinets  with spotlights, this is not what 
was included in the contract  or the invoice. W had told this service that it doesnt supply 
spotlight cabinets and those in the showroom were  for display to allow customers to better 
see the possibilities  for the units. 
Our investigator said it appeared that conversations took place at the showroom with 
regards to the kitchen but the invoice and contract stated the type of lighting that was to be 
supplied. As such he didnt see that there had been  a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. 
He thought the offer to replace  the cabinets  and for the bank  to pay for their fitting was fair 
and reasonable.  He also thought the banks offer of £50 compensation for issuing a 
misleading letter was fair.
Mr G didnt agree. He said that he hadnt agreed to provide an independent report  due to the 
cost and in any event, he had photos  of the display  and W hadnt disputed  the cabinets were 
not the same as the display model.  W had also said it didnt supply cabinets with spotlights  
and he didnt know where he could have obtained  quote for installation. 
As for the misleading  letter he said HSBC had told him he was entitled to a full refund and so 
it should uphold  that offer. He also thought the bank had mishandled the chargeback claims 
and had delayed  taking action such that his claim was prejudiced. Finally, he said that what  
was ordered and what was delivered  were different.
Ref: DRN16180262My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has made a complaint about  two elements of his efforts  to recover money he had paid 
to W. I will deal with the chargeback first.
It may help if I explain the chargeback system. Chargeback doesn't  mean  there is joint 
liability on the card company. It is a voluntary scheme administered  by the card provider, in 
this case MasterCard, not HSBC.  The consumer makes a claim to their bank and it puts a 
request to the merchant's  bank. But there  are no guarantees the consumers bank will be 
able to recover the money through chargeback,  or that the merchant will accept  that the 
claim is justified.  
The bank made a chargeback claim on Mr Gs behalf which W contested  and its bank 
escalated the claim  to MasterCard. The result was that the claim was rejected. I note Mr G 
considers delays by the bank had an effect on the claim, but I have seen nothing to suggest 
that is correct. I think some of the banks letters explaining what  was happening were  less 
than clear and may have  led to Mr G having raised  expectations about  the likely  success of 
a chargeback claim.
It is standard  for a disputed sum to be put on hold until matters are resolved. Doing so 
doesnt mean that a chargeback will be successful. While I can see that Mr G may have  
presumed the bank had agreed to a refund,  all it had done was place the debt on hold until 
his claim could be resolved. 
I note the bank erroneously wrote  to Mr G to say it had credited his account  with £8,987.45. 
In fact the disputed  sum at that time was only £1,341.64 and this had already  been credited 
to the account.  I have  seen noting  which show the bank offered to uphold  his claim and then 
later resiled from that offer. Quite simply, there  was an unfortunate misunderstanding.
The second  part of Mr Gs complaint concerns his claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. Section  75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to 
make purchases of goods or services.  Under  section 75 the consumer  has an equal  right to 
claim against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there 
has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract  on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Firstly, the required debtor-creditor-supplier  chain was in place and so Mr G was entitled to 
make a claim. This means I have  to consider if there  was either a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation. 
Mr G says there was breach of contract since he didnt receive the cupboards  he was 
expecting. I have looked at contract he entered into along with the invoice and I cannot  see 
that there  was breach of contract. Mr G agreed to LED Standard  Flat Strip Lights and 
Frosted Glass Door  Illuminated Wall Units and this is what was delivered. 
Ref: DRN16180263I accept he may have thought he was ordering cabinets with strip lights, but I have seen 
nothing that would allow me to say the contract was breached.
This leads  on to the question as to whether W misrepresented the goods. Clearly Mr G took 
the view that the order  he signed  up to included cabinets as shown  on the shop display. W 
says the showroom uses spotlights for display purposes so customers  can better see the 
cabinets. It doesnt sell cabinets with spotlights  and it disputes  Mr G was told these could be 
supplied. It says the designer  who worked with Mr G didnt say spotlights could be provided. 
I am satisfied there was a misunderstanding, but I need sufficient evidence to show  that W 
misrepresented what  it was selling. At this point I would make it clear the goodwill offer by W 
to provide different cabinets isnt an admission of guilt as Mr G suggested. It was simply  
trying to assist him. As was HSBC  by offering to pay for the replacement  cabinets to be 
fitted. 
W says that the cabinets it supplied were the correct ones  and these were  discussed at 
great length with the designer.  Clearly  Mr G takes different view. In the circumstances  it is 
hard for me to conclude  that there  was misrepresentation,  rather  it appears to have been a 
misunderstanding. Section 75 does not apply if the issue  has been caused  by a 
misunderstanding. 
Finally, I would say that it is reasonable for HSBC to ask for an estimate for the fitting before 
it authorised paying  money to Mr G. It is entitled to know  how much  it is agreeing to pay 
before making  that commitment, which I would add was made  as a goodwill gesture since  
Mr G hadnt established  he had valid S 75 claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision before 
1 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1618026