K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains about errors by Step One Finance  Limited when  he tried to close his loan 
account. He asks for compensation.
background 
Mr R says Step One Finance gave him incorrect information about  providing proof of funds. 
He says it delayed  the loan account being  closed.  Mr R says he wasnt  told Step One 
Finance would collect another direct debit  payment after hed repaid the loan.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying  the actions 
taken and £25 compensation  offered by Step One Finance was fair and reasonable. Our 
adjudicator said:
Step One Finance asked for evidence of the source of funds for repaying the loan. It has 
to meet  regulations and was entitled to ask for this information.
Step One Finance says its customer service  centre doesnt  correspond with customers 
by email. It agreed  that Mr R could  send his evidence by email  to assist him. There  were 
some problems  with it receiving the information  from Mr R by email.
Step One Finance wasnt satisfied with the information provided  and asked for bank 
statements. It agreed to accept the redemption monies but said it wouldnt start the 
account closure process until it received  the information it needed.
Step One Finance wouldnt cancel direct debit  payments until the account was closed. 
But it should  have  told Mr R that the direct  debit payment would  be collected and that 
hed have to contact it about  getting  a refund.
The account closure process should  take 15 working days. Step One Finance received 
the information it needed on 22 December:  its first working day after this was 27 
December 2018. While  there  was an internal delay, it made sure it closed the account 
within 15 working days of 27 December. So Mr R didnt suffer any financial loss.
Mr R didnt agree. He said £25 wasnt enough  given the time taken by Step One Finance to 
resolve the initial problem. And he had to contact  it after it took another  direct debit payment 
after the loan was closed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Step One Finance asked Mr R for evidence about the source  of the funds he intended to use 
to repay  the loan.  Step One Finance has to meet money laundering regulations and it says 
this was its usual  process.  I think it was entitled  to ask for this information.
Ref: DRN17945112Mr R wanted to email the information  a finance  agreement  to Step One Finance. Step 
One Finance says it usually asks for information to be sent by post. But it agreed to accept 
the information by email  and gave Mr R an email address. The email wasnt  received  and 
Step One Finance gave Mr R a different email address. There were  some missed calls and I 
appreciate having to re-send emails was stressful for Mr R. But I think Step One Finance 
assisted Mr R by agreeing to receive  the information  by email and, despite the problems, the 
information was received  the same day.
After reviewing the information, Step One Finance told Mr R it needed copies of his bank 
statements. While Step One Finance accepted  the redemption monies from Mr R, it told him 
it wouldnt begin the account  closure process  until it received the required information. It 
would have been helpful though if Step One Finance had told Mr R it would take direct debit 
payments due while the account remained open. 
Mr R sent the bank statements to Step One Finance the following day, 22 December 2018. 
Step One Finance was closed for the Christmas  period until 27 December 2018. There  was 
a delay in Step One Finance reviewing the bank  statements after this. It accepts  it made an 
error and offered £25 compensation. 
Step One Finance expedited  the closure  process  to ensure the account was closed within its 
usual 15 working  days period.  So I dont  think its error caused Mr R any financial loss, such 
as additional interest.
Mr R was upset when  a direct debit payment of nearly £600 left his account on 31 December 
2018. But, even  if Step One Finance hadnt  made an error, the account wouldnt have been 
closed by then.  So I dont think it made  an error when it took the payment. It refunded  the 
direct debit payment  within its usual  time scale.
I appreciate that Mr R found the process  to close his loan account stressful.  Step One 
Finance made an error when it didnt review  the bank statements on 27 December 2018. 
And it would have been helpful if it had told Mr R that it would take direct  debit payments 
until the account was closed. But I dont  think these errors caused Mr R any loss. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  its fair and reasonable to require Step One Finance to pay Mr R 
any additional compensation.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1794511