K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain, through their lawyer,  that City Credit Capital (UK) Ltd (CCC)  failed to 
inform them  that the trades they made through it were high risk, they never  completed  any 
know your customer document, and were generally  provided  with a bad investment service.
background
Mr and Mrs F opened two trading accounts  with CCC in April 2015  through an introductory 
broker  someone that CCC had an arrangement with for referring customers. The only 
products that CCC dealt  with were spot Foreign Exchange (FX) and Contracts for Difference 
(CFD).
All trading decisions made on Mr and Mrs Fs accounts were through  an attorney appointed 
by them  under a Limited Power of Attorney (LPOA)   for that purpose  although  they 
changed the attorney a couple of times.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  I attach and forms part of 
this final decision.  I thought the complaint should be upheld. In short I made  the following 
findings:
CCC offered accounts through which trades for CFD and FX could be made on an 
execution only basis so it isnt responsible  for assessing the suitability of trading 
decisions.
CCC had to satisfy  itself that the account  was appropriate for Mr and Mrs F, the 
requirements for which are set out in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in 
the regulators Handbook.
COBS 10.2.1(1)R  requires a client to ask clients about their knowledge and 
experience relevant  to the product or service offered  so it could assess  
appropriateness.
In assessing  appropriateness CCC needed to determine whether Mr and Mrs F had 
the experience  and knowledge to understand the risks.
Information about a clients knowledge and experience includes the type of service, 
transactions and investments they are familiar with.
CCC only asked Mr and Mrs F if they had experience of trading shares or leveraged 
products, which they answered no to.
The only other question CCC asked was whether Mr and Mrs F considered 
themselves able  based on their trading experience - to assess the risks involved in 
the types of investment.
I didnt think the information CCC had obtained was sufficient for it to be satisfied that 
the account was appropriate.
It shouldve issued  a warning the account  wasnt appropriate and if it had done so I 
didnt think Mr and Mrs F wouldve  opened the account.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing further information and 
evidence they wanted me to take into account.
Mr and Mrs Fs lawyer  confirmed they were happy  with the provisional decision. CCC didnt 
agree with my decision. In short it made the following key points:
Ref: DRN10914292It is clear that well before approaching CCC to open their accounts  Mr and Mrs F had 
an established relationship with the introducing agent and trusted  her as their 
financial adviser.
When Mr F opened his account  he completed an Application  Form for a Personal 
Account which  included a declaration he had read the risk disclosure document, 
terms of business, contract  specification  and fee schedule.
The risk disclosure statement set out the risks with regard to CFD.
Schedules four and five of the terms and conditions set out the risk of trading FX and 
CFD.
Mr F said he didnt  have experience  of trading  FX and CFD but did say he 
considered himself able, based on his trading experience and without  advice, to 
assess the risks involved in that type of investment.  This was a positive statement 
and provided a limited  warning  to him that there were risks associated with the 
investment service provided  by CCC.
Importantly Mr F confirmed he intended  to appoint an agent under an LPOA  to trade  
on his behalf so would have the benefit  of an expert adviser.
The appointment of an LPOA is entirely a matter for the client and was common  in 
the industry at the time and allowed under  the regulators rules.  
Mr and Mrs F appointed LPOAs for both their accounts from inception  so Mr and Mrs 
F only had read only access which allowed them to see what  was happening at any 
point, with the LPOA having access for trading.
Mr and Mrs F appointed three  different LPOAs  over the period they held their 
accounts. It is clear they were monitoring performance and made considered 
decisions to change  their LPOA. This is significant  because  it shows  they had a clear  
appreciation of the activity on their accounts  and were  appreciative  of the continued 
risks in trading  their accounts.
Mr F signed  the declaration in the account  opening application form that he agreed to 
receive information about the nature and risk of investment and in signing  also 
confirmed he had read and understood the risk disclosure statement and terms of 
business.
There is no value in CCC  providing  an execution only account unless doing so was 
appropriate.
It asked direct questions about the knowledge  and experience of clients opening an 
account and in doing so needed to be able to accept the responses provided and 
also consider the wider  known  circumstances in producing  a holistic answer to the 
question of appropriateness  which is what it did.
It was entitled to respect  the decision of Mr and Mrs F to appoint  an attorney they 
trusted and it was for them to be satisfied with their choice. 
The attorney would ostensibly have  understood or shouldve understood the nature 
of the transaction and products.
It cannot accept the assertion in the provisional  decision  that Mr and Mrs F wouldve 
done something different if provided with risk warnings. The risks of the trading 
activity were communicated on more than one occasion and were understood by 
them.
The ombudsmans decision doesnt  appear  to recognise the financial and other  
circumstances of Mr and Mrs F. They had significant wealth and existing investment 
accounts and a relationship with the introducing  agent who was their adviser 
The decision to trade in the FX market  via a leveraged  product  was made before the 
decision as to which broker to use. If they hadnt opened an account with CCC they 
wouldve opened an account with another broker.
Ref: DRN10914293my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered everything  that CCC has said and the evidence  it has produced. In short 
CCC argues it has done nothing  wrong because; it provided risk warnings that Mr and Mrs A 
read and confirmed they understood; they confirmed they were able to assess the risks of 
the type of investment involved based on their trading experience; and they were  using an 
attorney appointed under an LPOA  to make  trading  decisions.
I think it is worth quoting  what  COBS 10.2 1 and COBS  2.2.2  say in their entirety  to show  
what is required:
COBS 10.2.1 states:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter  applies, a firm must ask the client to 
provide information  regarding  his knowledge and experience  in the investment field relevant 
to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to 
assess whether the service or product envisaged  is appropriate  for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm:
(a) must  determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge  in order  
to understand  the risks involved in relation to the product or service offered or demanded;
(b) may assume that a professional client has the necessary  experience and knowledge in 
order to understand  the risks involved in relation to those particular investment services or 
transactions, or types of transaction or product, for which the client is classified as a 
professional client.
COBS 10.2.2 States:
The information  regarding a client's knowledge and experience  in the investment field 
includes, to the extent  appropriate to the nature of the client,  the nature and extent  of the 
service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, including  their 
complexity and the risks involved, information  on:
(1) the types of service,  transaction  and designated investment with which the client  is 
familiar;
(2) the nature,  volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated investments and 
the period over which they have been  carried out;
(3) the level of education,  profession  or relevant former profession of the client.
Mr and Mrs F were  not professional clients so CCC couldnt assume they had the necessary 
experience and knowledge.  And I think it is clear the rules require that the information  that is 
required is information about the clients knowledge  and experience   not that of a third party 
such as an adviser or attorney.
Ref: DRN10914294I think the rules also make  clear that the purpose  of the questions is so that the firm can 
assess if the service it is offering is appropriate.  In other  words  some assessment is 
necessary on the part of CCC  based  on the information it has been given about Mr and Mrs 
Fs experience and knowledge.
But CCC  had no information about  what investments they had experience  and knowledge of. 
The only information  CCC had was about what Mr and Mrs F didnt have experience in. It 
simply relied on Mr F saying he had the necessary experience to understand the risks. In 
effect it relied on his self assessment rather than carrying  out its own assessment. I dont 
think that is what is required by the rules.  
COBS 10.2.2 indicates  the sort of information  that should be obtained and I think what  CCC 
actually got fell short of what it needed to assess the account as appropriate for Mr and Mrs 
F and pointed to it being inappropriate.
I dont think the existence  of an attorney appointed under an LPOA was a substitute for the 
requirements of the COBS rules or made  the account appropriate when it wasnt otherwise 
appropriate. There was no requirement  for an attorney to be appointed, or remain  in place 
once appointed. And CCC didnt  obtain information about the attorneys experience and 
knowledge so it couldnt safely assume  the attorney was any better placed to understand the 
risks of FX and CFD trading.
I also dont think the fact that Mr and Mrs F monitored the account and changed the attorney 
twice provides any evidence that the account was appropriate in the first place. I think in 
monitoring the account they were  aware they were losing money on their investment. But the 
fact they were aware they could lose, and were losing, money doesnt necessarily mean they 
understood how FX and CFD trading  worked and the actual  risks. 
And the change of attorney suggests  they thought their losses  were because of something 
the attorney  was doing wrong whereas  it may well have been  simply the result  of the 
inherent risks of trading FX and CFD.  If so this would suggest a lack of understanding  by Mr 
and Mrs F about what was going  on.
CCC has said I havent recognised Mr and Mrs Fs wider financial and other circumstances. 
It refers to their wealth, existing investment accounts, and the fact their first attorney was 
also their adviser.  It has suggested that these wider circumstances were part of the overall  
picture that allowed it to reach a holistic decision as to the appropriateness of the account.
But whatever the wider  circumstances,  I think the starting point  for assessing 
appropriateness of the account  is the knowledge and experience of the clients.  And as I 
have already said, on the evidence I have seen, CCC didnt have any information about  this. 
And the fact they had an adviser  and were wealthy doesnt change that. 
CCC has also said that the decision to open  a trading account for FX and CFD trading was 
taken before they were approached as broker. But I havent suggested that CCC provided  
any advice to open the account. It seems to me implicit that Mr and Mrs F had chosen  to 
open an account before contacting a broker  given CCC operated an execution only service 
it seems to me more  likely than not that this is the norm. But this has no bearing on whether 
the account was appropriate.
In summary,  having considered everything  that CCC has said,  Im not persuaded that it 
shouldve opened  an account for Mr and Mrs F on the information  it had. 
Ref: DRN10914295In my provisional decision I said that CCC shouldve warned Mr and Mrs F that the account 
wasnt appropriate  as the rules  require when that is the conclusion.  And that if it had 
provided that warning  I didnt think Mr and Mrs F wouldve opened the account.
CCC has questioned  my finding on this. It has said that it doesnt  accept my assertion that 
Mr and Mrs F wouldve done  something  different if provided with risk warnings given the 
risks of trading were communicated on more than one occasion. 
But if CCC had concluded that the account wasnt appropriate  as I have said it shouldve  
done  the rules dont simply require it to tell Mr and Mrs F of the risks of trading FX and 
CFD. What  it is required to do is to warn the client that the account  isnt appropriate for them. 
That is clearly not the same as simply setting out the risks of trading. It is saying,  in effect, to 
a potential customer that this type of account  is not for you.
CCC has said that if Mr and Mrs F hadnt opened an account  with it they wouldve opened  
an account with another  broker. But if the reason they didnt open an account with CCC  was 
because they were warned such an account wasnt appropriate there is no basis  for thinking 
they wouldve  tried to open an account  with another broker, who wouldve been  subject to 
the same  rules and wouldve had to have given the same warning.   
In other  words they would  either have asked CCC to go ahead  with opening the account 
despite the warning  or wouldnt have opened an account at all. And I have previously said I 
think they wouldve  decided not to open an account if they had received  the warning. 
I accept its possible,  given they were  advised  to open such an account by their adviser, that 
they wouldve  insisted  on opening an account with CCC despite any warning they were 
given that the account wasnt appropriate for them. But I dont think it is more likely than not 
they wouldve  done so. I think there is a significant  difference  between opening an account  
based on advice  from your adviser  where  there is no reason to think the advice is wrong, 
and opening  an account where you are given a specific warning the account  isnt appropriate 
for you. 
I acknowledge that at the outset Mr and Mrs F were relying on their adviser as attorney to 
make trading  decisions for them. But this was based  on them having no reason to question 
the advice in the first place. Im not persuaded that if they had been  given  a warning the 
account wasnt appropriate they would  simply have proceeded with opening the account  
What CCC should to put things right
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs F as close to the position they would  probably now be in if they had been  warned 
the accounts werent appropriate. I think they wouldnt have opened  the accounts if that had 
happened but I think Mr and Mrs F would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done, but I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  their circumstances and objectives when they invested. 
Ref: DRN10914296what should  CCC do? 
I set out what I thought  CCC should  do to put things right in my provisional  decision and 
CCC didnt suggest  an alternative or that this was wrong so I see no reason to change  the 
redress.
To compensate Mr and Mrs F fairly,  CCC must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs F's investment  with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment.  If the actual value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
CCC should also pay interest as set out below. 
Pay Mr and Mrs F £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. The money they 
invested was for their children and I think it will have been very upsetting  when they 
realised they had lost so much of this money.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
The CCC 
Accountsstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision  to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days 
of the business 
being  notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
CCC totals all those  payments and deducts that figure at the end instead  of deducting 
periodically. 
Ref: DRN10914297why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs F wanted capital growth and were willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr and Mrs F's circumstances and risk attitude. 
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that City Credit  
Capital (UK) Ltd pays the balance.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My decision is that City Credit  Capital  (UK) Ltd should pay 
the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum  of £150,000 (including distress  
and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest  set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that City Credit Capital  (UK) Ltd pays Mr and Mrs F the balance 
plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10914298COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain,  through  their lawyer, that City Credit  Capital (UK) Ltd (CCC)  failed to inform 
them that the trades  they made  through it were high risk, they never  completed any know  your 
customer document, and were generally  provided with a bad investment service.
background
Mr and Mrs F opened  two trading accounts with CCC in April 2015 through an introductory broker  
someone that CCC had an arrangement with for referring  customers. The only products that CCC 
dealt with were spot Foreign Exchange (FX) and Contracts for Difference (CFD).
All trading decisions made on Mr and Mrs Fs accounts were through an attorney appointed by them  
under a Limited Power of Attorney (LPOA)  for that purpose  although they changed the attorney  a 
couple of times.
CCC didnt uphold their complaint. It said that Mr and Mrs F had signed  all the relevant  documents to 
indicate they understood  the products  and the risks associated with them. It also said that it couldnt 
be held responsible for the trading decisions made by the attorney Mr and Mrs F had appointed to 
make those decisions  for them.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He said that 
CCC provided  an execution only service to Mr and Mrs F. He said they had agreed to CCCs terms 
and conditions and were  made  aware the products it offered were high risk. He said that CCC carried 
out orders  that were authorised by Mr and Mrs Fs agents and any complaint should  be against the 
companies that managed  the trades and gave advice to Mr and Mrs F.
 Mr and Mrs Fs lawyer didnt agree. In summary  he made the following points:
CCC failed to comply with its duty of due diligence  before opening the accounts  because it 
didnt get the Limited Powers of Attorney apostilled and without this the documents were 
invalid and the accounts  shouldnt  have been opened as the customers  werent present. 
It was the introductory broker  a partner  of CCC  - who suggested  who Mr and Mrs F should  
use as their attorney  under the LPOA  and it is responsible for the actions of its partner.
By not checking the regulatory standing of its partners, the attorneys,  CCC  put its customers 
at risk and it shouldve  checked as part of its regulatory  responsibility.
We should check with CCC what relationship it has with the introducing broker and the 
attorney companies.
As Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree with the adjudicator  the matter has been referred  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
CCC offered accounts through  which trades for CFD and spot FX could be made. This was offered on 
an execution only basis so that CCC  isnt responsible  for assessing the suitability of the trading 
decisions that were made on the accounts.  I note what Mr and Mrs Fs lawyer has said about  the way 
in which Mr and Mrs F came  to open their accounts with CCC  namely through an introductory  
broker who received commission for any trades that were  carried out.
But arrangements with introductory  brokers arent unusual and this didnt change  what  CCC needed  
to do before allowing Mr and Mrs F to trade  namely to ensure that the accounts  they opened were  
appropriate for them. I note the reference to the introducing broker being a partner. But I have seen 
Ref: DRN10914299nothing to indicate there was a partnership  in the sense  that there was joint and several liability  and I 
dont think the agreement with the introducing  broker meant CCC is responsible for the trading  
decisions made  by Mr and Mrs Fs attorney.
 
I note their lawyer  has suggested that the LPOA completed by Mr and Mrs F is invalid because  it 
hasnt been apostilled. This refers to a procedure  whereby a document  issued in the UK is verified as 
to the signatures of officials and any seals on the document. I dont think  this is relevant  to a 
document issued by CCC so customers  can appoint someone to make trading  decisions on their 
behalf.
 
Under an execution only trading account what CCC  had to satisfy  itself of was that the account was 
appropriate for the customer. The requirements for this are set out in the Handbook of the industry  
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority  in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS).
In particular COBS 10.2.1 (1) requires  a firm to ask clients to provide information regarding  their 
knowledge and experience in the investment  field relevant to the specific type of product or service  
offered so it can assess appropriateness.
COBS 10.2.1  (2) states:
When assessing appropriateness a firm must  determine  whether the client has the necessary 
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or 
service offered or demanded.
And COBS 10.2.2 states that the information  regarding a clients knowledge  and experience in 
investments includes information about the type of service transaction and investment the client is 
familiar with and the nature volume  and frequency of the clients transactions in investments  and over 
what period  these were  carried out and the clients education  and profession.
Turning to what  CCC  knew  from the information provided by Mr and Mrs F, they were  asked only 
three questions about their trading experience.  They were asked if they had experience of trading 
shares or experience of leveraged products  and they answered no to both these questions. The third 
question was a catch-all question  that simply asked Do you consider yourself able, on the basis of 
your trading experience and without taking advice  to assess the risks involved in this type of 
investment to which they answered yes. 
I acknowledge that CCC is entitled to rely on the information provided by the client.  But Im not 
satisfied that it is enough  to ask if the client thinks they understand the risks based on their trading 
experience when there was no evidence of what their actual  trading experience was - the only 
information on their trading  being that they didnt  have experience  of share trading or leveraged 
products.
It was for CCC to satisfy  itself Mr and Mrs F had the experience and understanding necessary  to 
trade CFD and spot FX and I think the information it obtained falls short  of what it needed  to make 
that assessment. I dont think that is shouldve  allowed Mr and Mrs F to open  the accounts  based on 
the very limited  information it obtained about their trading  experience.
I think  that based on the information it had CCC  shouldve  issued a warning that the product  was not 
appropriate. If such a warning had been given Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs F wouldve entered  
into an agreement with CCC in relation to trading CFD or spot FX. I think that they are more likely 
than not to have invested  their money differently.
What CCC should to put things right
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mr and Mrs F 
Ref: DRN109142910as close  to the position they would probably  now be in if they had been warned the accounts  werent 
appropriate. I think they wouldnt have opened the accounts if that had happened but I think Mr and 
Mrs F would have invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely what they would have done, 
but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given  their circumstances and 
objectives when they invested. 
what should CCC do? 
To compensate Mr and Mrs F fairly, CCC must:
Compare the performance  of Mr and Mrs F's investment with that of the benchmark  shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the investment. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
CCC should also pay interest as set out below.  
Pay Mr and Mrs F £300 for the distress and inconvenience  caused. The money  they invested 
was for their children  and I think  it will have been very upsetting  when they realised they had 
lost so much of this money.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
The CCC 
Accountsstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total  
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation  is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business  being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. 
If there  are a large number  of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if CCC  
totals all those  payments  and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting  periodically. 
Ref: DRN109142911why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs F wanted  capital growth and were willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a fair measure  
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
 
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mr and Mrs F's 
circumstances and risk attitude. 
my provisional  decision
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that City Credit  Capital (UK) 
Ltd pays  the balance.
determination and award: I uphold  the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My provisional  decision is that City Credit  Capital  (UK) Ltd should  pay the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to the maximum of £150,000  (including distress  and/or 
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, 
I recommend that City Credit Capital (UK) Ltd pays Mr and Mrs F the balance plus any interest on the 
balance as set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1091429