K820x#14complaint
Ms F has complained that Nationwide Building Society will not refund any of the commission 
it received from her PPI premiums for the policy that she took out in 2010 to cover  her 
mortgage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Ms Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. Ms F took out her mortgage in 2010. Based  
on what we have seen  and what we know about  how Nationwide  arranged mortgages taken 
out after October 2004, Im satisfied that Ms Fs mortgage was a regulated mortgage. And 
this means the scope  of the Consumer  Credit Act or the FCAs relevant rules  and guidance 
dont apply. So Nationwide doesnt need  to refund any of the commission Ms F paid for the 
PPI she had with her mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1949086