K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building  Society   turned  down his claim for a refund under
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section 75).
Background
In June 2018, Mr T made two payments from his credit card to a garage (Ill call Garage A) 
for work completed on his car. 
The first payment related to work following a failed MOT. Mr T gave a copy  of the MOT 
report to Garage A and asked it to make the necessary  repairs. The report said his car 
hadnt met the required exhaust emissions test. Garage A suggested a carbon cleaning 
procedure to resolve this issue.  Mr T says Garage A told him this would be sufficient for his 
car to pass  an MOT.  Garage A completed the work  and returned the car. Mr T took his car to 
a test centre  for a second MOT but this again failed due to exhaust  emissions.  Mr T says the 
garage either didnt  complete the carbon cleaning procedure  or mis-sold the service based 
on giving  him incorrect  information that it would fix the exhaust emissions issue.
Around the same time (and between the two MOT  tests), Mr T noticed a noise  coming from 
the engine area of his car. He asked Garage A to look at this for him. He received a text 
message saying to get rid of the noise he would  need a new belt and guide  pulley. Mr T 
agreed to this work and paid for the repairs on his credit card.  The day after collecting the 
car, he noticed the noise hadnt stopped and had got worse. At this point, Mr T had lost faith 
in Garage A, so took his car to another garage  (who  Ill call Garage B) to resolve both the 
problems.
Garage B investigated the issues. It said the incorrect criteria had been applied  in the MOT  
tests on the exhaust  emissions. And if the correct criteria was applied Mr Ts car would pass 
this part of the MOT. It completed further diagnostic  tests  of the engine noise problem. It 
found that the problem  was not caused by the belt but actually a faulty  tensioner. It said it 
could replace this but would also need to replace the new belt that Garage A had put in 
because this had become  damaged.  
Because Mr T had paid Garage  A for the parts and services on his credit  card,  he asked 
Nationwide for a refund under section 75. But Nationwide turned down his claim. It said there  
was no breach of contract or misrepresentation based on the information Mr T provided.  
Mr T didnt  agree and felt that he had provided enough to show that there had been a breach 
or misrepresentation. 
Our investigator didnt  think Nationwide  had done  anything wrong. 
Mr T didnt  agree. He said he agreed to the repairs to fix the noise on the advice he received 
from Garage A but shortly  afterwards  the problem returned. So Garage A failed to identify 
and fix the problem. He also questioned whether the carbon cleaning  procedure was 
completed. He believes  Garage A didnt keep the unconditional promise it made to resolve  
the emissions issues that led to his car failing its MOT.  
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN13486042My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general effect of section  75 is that if Mr T has a claim  for breach  of contract or
misrepresentation against a supplier of goods or services, he can bring  a like claim against
the provider of credit (Nationwide).  To be clear, Im not deciding Nationwides  liability  under 
section 75. Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable,  taking into account the 
relevant law (which includes section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015). 
Firstly, I will consider the issue  relating  to the emission and the carbon cleaning  procedure. 
Ive reviewed the job sheet and invoice  for the work  completed. The aim of the procedure 
was to reduce  the level of emissions. Ive not seen  anything  to say this is an inappropriate 
procedure to achieve this aim. While  Mr T has questioned whether the cleaning procedure  
was carried out, he hasnt provided  anything  to support this was the case.  I also havent 
seen anything to suggest the quality of the service was unsatisfactory.  
Ive considered Mr Ts comments about Garage  A telling him his car would pass its MOT 
after the procedure  but it actually failed  the second test. I note Mr Ts car eventually passed  
its MOT following information provided by Garage B indicating that the wrong  test criteria for 
exhaust emissions had been applied by the test centre. Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
Garage A is responsible  for the work completed at the test centre   so I cant  hold it 
responsible for any errors in applying the wrong emissions criteria.  And I have  seen a copy  
of the second  failed  MOT  - this was completed  directly following the cleaning procedure  and 
shows a reading  that did actually  meet the correct criteria to pass. So this supports that the 
purpose of the cleaning  procedure did meet the aim to reduce emissions  to a level that 
would pass an MOT. 
It is unfortunate that the correct criteria wasnt applied when completing the MOT  but I dont 
think that means Nationwide has acted unfairly  by not accepting there has been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. 
Ive also considered the concerns Mr T has raised about the repairs  undertaken to solve the 
noise his car was making. Mr T has provided  evidence that the MOT  test centre  commented  
that the likely cause of the noise was the tensioner. I also acknowledge that Garage B 
resolved the noise issue by replacing the tensioner, having identified  that the belt wasnt the 
underlying cause of the noise. But I think it is important to recognise that the evidence  
available to Garage  B was different to that which Garage A had when it first attempted  to 
resolve the noise  issue. The belt had been replaced  and become damaged by the time the 
test centre and Garage B were asked to look into the issue.  
In making a decision on this part of the complaint, Ive placed  weight on the information 
obtained from Garage  B as part of our investigations. This includes that in its opinion it was 
reasonable for Garage  A to replace the belt in the first instance  and this is the same 
approach it would have taken when  first diagnosing the problem. Garage B also commented  
that it didnt think  it would have been apparent  to Garage A that there was a problem  with the 
tensioner (a broken bolt was discovered) when the belt was replaced. This leads me to think  
the repair Garage  A suggested  was reasonable based on the information available at the 
time. With hindsight (the fact a replacement belt didnt resolve  the issue) and further 
investigation, Garage  B was able to identify that the underlying problem was related to the 
Ref: DRN13486043tensioner. But I dont  think  this means  Garage A provided incorrect  information  when it first 
diagnosed the problem  or carried out a repair without reasonable care and skill. 
Ive not seen anything persuasive  to make me think theres been a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation in either situation.  So for that reason, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
say that Nationwide should give Mr T a refund.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1348604