K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Mr M says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold to him with a credit  card.  
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr M has asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M says he cant remember  much  about getting his credit card and he doesnt remember  
agreeing to any insurance.  But Lloyds told us its computer records show Mr M took out his 
card account  in 1992, which is obviously  now around 27 years ago. 
So its not surprising  that we no longer have access to Mr Ms credit card application form. 
Businesses arent required to keep  records  indefinitely, but Lloyds did send us an example 
of the type of form that was being  used to apply  for credit cards  around that time.  Ive seen 
quite a few of these  before and what Lloyds  has sent in corresponds with my experience.
Using what I know  and the example form  I think Mr M would have been given a choice 
about PPI with his new card. I think he would have  ticked  the yes box and would have 
known he didnt have  to if he didnt want to. I also note Mr M upgraded his credit card in 
2000. On that occasion I know he did ask for PPI because we have a copy  of his application.
Finally, I can also see from copies of his monthly credit  card statements that PPI was being  
charged on his account. I note these are referred to on the statements as Cardholder 
Protection Plan and the costs were  shown. I think its likely  that if Mr M hadnt agreed to the 
PPI he would have  wanted to know what the charges were for. 
In short,  I think Mr M agreed to the PPI and would have been able to see it had been set up 
for him. After 27 years, I can accept  he genuinely  doesnt remember  this.
Lloyds concedes it may have recommended the PPI cover with the credit card so this means 
it was under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Mr Ms situation. I looked  at his 
age, job, health  and general circumstances  to help me decide about  this. 
I think that Mr M was eligible for the PPI and I dont think  he would have been caught by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. The cost was around  £0.59 - 
£0.79 per £100  of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mr Ms card. Ive seen nothing that 
suggests he would have found these  monthly  charges  unaffordable  and they are broadly in 
line with similar PPI policies Ive seen  from that time.
Ref: DRN11571052Mr M told us he already had some  sickness protection with his job and I agree it would have 
been quite generous. Ive thought carefully  about  this and all his circumstances, and any 
means he might have had at that time. But I havent  seen anything  that necessarily means 
the PPI wasnt suitable  to Mr M. In the event  of a successful claim for example, he wouldve 
been able to have his outstanding balance reduced  by 10% each month  for up to 12 months.  
These benefits were  accessible  in addition to any other means  he already had in place at the 
time. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I think the policy was suitable for him.
Lloyds also had to give Mr M clear information. After such  a long time I cant confirm he was 
told everything he shouldve been told. But for me to uphold this complaint, Id need to think  
it was more likely that Mr M didnt consent to the policy or there were other serious  flaws  in 
the way the policy was sold.  I simply dont have that evidence. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  the cost of 
the PPI to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1157105