K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy they are being charged to exit their fixed  rate mortgage with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
background
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with Barclays on a variable interest rate. On 12 November  
2018, they successfully applied online to switch their mortgage  to a fixed interest rate for two 
years.
On 26 November 2018, Mr and Mrs B contacted Barclays because  they had changed  their 
minds about the switch.  Barclays said they would have to pay an early repayment charge as 
the rate had been changed and there  wasnt a cooling  off period. 
Mr and Mrs B raised a complaint  they said the charge was unfair because the contractual 
information they received suggested the new rate hadnt started yet and the early repayment 
charges wouldnt  apply until it had. They also explained that what they had paid in recent 
months shows the rate didnt start straight  away. 
Barclays replied and explained that the rate started on 13 November 2018 (the day after 
they applied online), and that the paperwork only gave an illustrative  date of 
1 December 2018. It added that Mr and Mrs Bs next monthly  payment (so from December 
2018) would go down, to take into account  the switch. And that it didnt change for 
Novembers payment, as the switch happened too late in the billing cycle.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to us. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has provided screenshots  of what the online  application process looked like. 
Theyre not all specific to Mr and Mrs Bs application, but I wouldnt expect a business  to 
retain each  individual screenshot of someones online application  because  the process on 
the whole  looks  the same for everyone. And given that civil disputes like this are only ever 
decided on the balance of probabilities i.e. what is more likely than not, Im satisfied that its 
likely this is what Mr and Mrs B wouldve seen. 
From these screenshots, Ive pulled out what I think is the most relevant information  about 
when the new interest  rate would start and the early repayment charges: 
The Key Facts Illustration, under section 6, refers to the new rate starting on 
1 December 2018. Under section 10, about earlier repayment  charges, it says the 
figures assume a start date for the mortgage of 01 December 2018. Early repayment  
charges are payable  on this mortgage until 31 January 2021 as follows. The table  
refers to the start of charge period as 01/12/2018. 
The general declaration confirms that they agree  to the new rate starting and that if 
they change their minds, they might have to pay charges. 
Following this, theres a section  where Mr and Mrs B wouldve been  asked  to confirm 
the start date. Barclays has explained  that unless they manually selected a date, it 
Ref: DRN11246382wouldve defaulted to the earliest  date they could  switch.  For Mr and Mrs B, that 
wouldve been the following day as they werent  in any fixed  rate product. 
When they submitted  everything, a screen wouldve appeared which  confirmed the 
date that their new interest rate would start.  This screen also referred them  to their 
mortgage offer document, which  contained  the same information as the Key Facts 
Illustration given earlier. This information wouldve been sent by email  too. 
Taking this all into account, I agree that some  of the information wasnt clear about  when  the 
new rate would apply  particularly in the Key Facts Illustration and subsequent mortgage 
offer. But my role isnt solely to consider what went wrong. Instead,  I must also establish  
what difference this lack of clarity  made to Mr and Mrs B. Thats  because  our service isnt 
here to punish  businesses   but instead, put people in the position  they wouldve been  in 
had everything happened  as it shouldve.  
Here, thats  meant looking at how Mr and Mrs B wouldve proceeded with their application, if 
all the information  about the start date was presented clearly.  Im mindful that they made the 
decision to apply for this fixed  rate product given the expense of remaining on the standard 
variable rate. So it seems  likely that they wouldve wanted to switch as soon as possible  so 
they could benefit from the lower rate. Indeed, I cant see any particular reason that they 
wouldve deliberately  wanted the mortgage to start on 1 December. 
Ive also considered that if Mr and Mrs B thought it started on 1 December, its likely they 
wouldve questioned  the several  screens  and the email that confirmed it started on 13 
November at the time. I do appreciate  they later did this  but that was in the context  of their 
request to exit the fixed rate. And at that point, they werent able to do so, without incurring a 
fee, given that there wasnt a cooling off period.  
It follows that, even if all of the information  during the application process clearly showed  the 
rate started the next day, I think its likely that Mr and Mr B wouldve still gone ahead  with it. 
And so crucially, they wouldve  been  in this same positon where they would face fees to exit 
the mortgage. Given this, while I know its particularly disappointing and frustrating news for 
Mr and Mrs B, Im not going to ask Barclays to waive the early repayment  fee.
Mr and Mrs B also questioned why there was no cooling off period. But the right to cancel, 
contained in the Financial  Services  (Distance Marketing) Regulations 2004, doesnt apply to 
contracts secured  by a legal mortgage.  
Finally, Mr and Mrs B raised concerns about  whether the rate actually switched on 13 
November  because  their mortgage  repayment  for November  didnt go down. Barclays  
explained thats because it was too late in the billing  cycle to change  Novembers  payment. 
But the payments  were  reduced from December onwards, and these took account  of the 
reduced interest rate which applied from 13 November. I can see that is also explained in the 
revised payment  notices  sent to Mr and Mrs B  so Im satisfied they benefited from the 
lower interest rate from 13 November. 
Ref: DRN11246383my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1124638