K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr S took out in 2005. It was added to his 
account when  he applied for the card on line
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Capital One disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
Mr S told us that at the time of sale he was working for an agency on temporary  contracts. 
Ive seen his HMRC statement for the previous tax year and that seems to correspond with 
what Mr Ss told us about his employment status. So, I think it reasonable to accept what he 
says about his employment  position  at the time of sale.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the PPI policy. It was more  difficult  for people  in 
temporary work to claim unemployment benefit.  I cant  see that Mr S was given clear 
information about this when he took out the PPI  if  he had been, I dont think  hed have 
bought the policy.
So, I think Capital One mis-sold this PPI policy.
putting things right
Capital One should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI.
If Mr S has closed his credit card account
A.Capital One should find out how much  Mr S would have owed when he closed  his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Capital One should then refund the difference between what  Mr S owed when he closed 
his account and what he would have owed  if he hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN16333342If Mr S made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him. Similarly, Capital One can take off any 
amount it has already  refunded him for the commission element of this PPI policy, so 
that it does not refund  the same amount twice.
B.Capital One should add simple interest  on the difference between  what Mr S would have 
owed when he closed his account,  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% simple  a year.
C.If  when  Capital  One works out what Mr S would  have owed  each month without PPI  
he paid more than enough to clear  his balance, Capital  One should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr S paid.  And it should  carry  on paying interest until the point 
when Mr S wouldve owed something  on his credit card. The interest rate should  again 
be 8% simple a year.
D.Capital One should tell Mr S what its done  to work out A, B and C.
If Mr Ss credit card account is still open
A.Capital One should find out how much Mr S would owe on his credit card if the policy  
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Capital One should then refund the difference between what  Mr S owes  and what he 
would have owed.
If Mr S made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him. Similarly, Capital One can take off any 
amount it has already  refunded him for the commission element of this PPI policy, so 
that it does not refund  the same amount twice.
B.If  when Capital  One works out what Mr S would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mr S paid more than enough  to clear his balance, Capital One should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mr S wouldve  owed  Capital One something  on his credit card.  The interest rate is 8% a 
year.
C.Capital One should tell Mr S what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital  One 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN16333343Capital One (Europe) plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1633334