K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to do to 
put things right following their complaint about  the sale of payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs S complained that RBS mis-sold PPI alongside six loans. RBS investigated  the 
complaint. It thought  that one of the loans didnt  include PPI. But it upheld  the complaints 
about the remaining loans.
RBS says it looked at a complaint about one of the loans in 2010   and says it paid 
£5,424.69 as compensation at that time.  It worked  out the compensation should now include 
an extra  £1,134.35. For the remaining loans, it worked out compensation would be 
£12,417.31.
But Mr and Mrs S granted trust deeds  in 2007  under Scottish insolvency law. This is a less 
formal alternative to sequestration. RBS says this meant Mr and Mrs S didnt pay back  
everything they owed.  And so RBS wants to first deduct the compensation it worked out from 
the amounts Mr and Mrs S didnt have to repay.
Mr and Mrs S think RBS should pay the compensation directly to them.
I issued my provisional findings on this case on 11 November  2019. My provisional decision, 
attached, explained that I thought it was fair for RBS to deduct the compensation from the 
amount Mr and Mrs S didnt have  to repay when the trust deed ended.
I said Id considered the relevant law and regulations. In particular, recent judgments in the 
Scottish courts had said that a business that offered  to pay compensation for PPI mis-selling 
following the end of a trust deed needed  to pay this to the customer directly  and couldnt 
offset this against  the amounts that hadnt been  repaid when  the trust deed  ended.  But I 
didnt think such an approach was fair in this case.
RBS had said Mr and Mrs S owed it £36,380.06 when they entered the trust deed   and that 
when the trust deed ended there was a remaining £18,184.37 that Mr and Mrs S didnt  have 
to repay.  This is greater  than the compensation RBS had worked out it needed to pay for 
mis-selling PPI. I didnt  think  it was fair to make RBS pay the compensation directly to 
Mr and Mrs S when  they didnt need to repay RBS a far greater amount when the trust deed 
ended.
I said Id consider any further information  or arguments I received before 11 December  2019.
RBS confirmed it had received  my decision,  and said it had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs S dont  agree. Theyve said that:
they dont  understand why Im not bound by the outcome of cases  in the Scottish 
courts,
as the trust deed has ended they no longer  owe anything to their debtors,
Ref: DRN13939192RBS is the only bank applying this approach, and theyve received compensation 
from other businesses. Allowing RBS to offset  the compensation is unfair to the other 
creditors.
the period  they were in the trust deed  was the most difficult  years  of their lives
RBS contributed to their financial difficulties by contacting them  to increase the 
amount they borrowed.
Ive now considered the complaint again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  the further points Mr and Mrs S have raised. But these dont change  
my conclusion. Ill explain why.
Id first like to acknowledge  that Mr and Mrs S were in a very difficult financial position  when 
they decided to enter the trust deed.  I am sure this wasnt a decision they took lightly  or that 
the process was easy. But the consequence of the trust deed  is that there was a very large 
amount of money  that they owed RBS that, now the trust deed is over, they will never need 
to repay.  The debt no longer exists, and RBS cannot chase them  for it.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I am required to determine  complaints by 
reference to what  is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, I must take 
into account relevant  law, but I am not bound to follow this. I recognise that the courts in 
Scotland might say that a business that offers  to refund PPI premiums following the end of a 
trust deed should  pay this to the consumer directly. But for the reasons Ive already 
explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think that would be fair for me to tell RBS to do 
this in this case.
The PPI was attached to debts that existed before Mr and Mrs S entered the trust deed.  Its 
likely that some of this cost was included in the debts that formed  part of the trust deed. I 
dont think it would be fair to award compensation for the mis-sale of the PPI directly to 
Mr and Mrs S without  taking into account the amounts Mr and Mrs S didnt have to repay 
following the trust deed.
And when  I decide  a complaint about  the sale of PPI should be upheld,  the compensation is 
supposed to put the consumers in the financial position theyd be in if they hadnt  bought  the 
policy. The cost of the PPI was only a part of what Mr and Mrs S borrowed. So if they hadnt  
bought the PPI I think its likely theyd still have  entered the trust deed  but owed less. And I 
think thats the position RBSs offer puts them in.
I also note that a large part of RBSs offer wasnt the extra money Mr and Mrs S paid 
towards the PPI, but was additional  interest  designed to compensate  Mr and Mrs S for the 
time theyd  been  out of pocket. Once the amount Mr and Mrs S hadnt repaid  was greater 
than the amount theyd paid RBS for the PPI, I dont think  they were  out of pocket any more. 
So I wouldnt  have awarded  all this interest.
To be clear, this doesnt mean that the debt still exists or that RBS could chase 
Mr and Mrs S for this. And while I acknowledge that other businesses  may have done 
Ref: DRN13939193something different,  Im looking the individual circumstances  of a complaint between RBS 
and Mr and Mrs S. I also accept that the proceeds  of the trust deed might have been split 
differently between Mr and Mrs Ss creditors if the PPI had been  taken  into account at that 
point. But I dont think this changes what is fair: even if the PPI had been taken into account 
during the trust deed, it still looks  as though  the amounts Mr and Mrs S paid during this 
period werent  enough to repay their outstanding debts. They wouldnt have  received  this 
money directly. 
I dont think it would  be fair to tell RBS to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs S directly when 
they didnt have to pay back many  thousands that they owed RBS following the end of the 
trust deed.
Ive considered the other points Mr and Mrs S have raised. They say they and the trustee 
never received the original payment for PPI in 2010.  It looks  as though this amount  was 
offset one of the loan accounts. But given the amounts RBS wrote  off when the trust deed 
ended, this doesnt change my conclusion.
It follows that RBSs approach to settling the complaint is fair in the circumstances  of 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland  PLC to take into 
account the amounts Mr and Mrs S didnt repay following the end of the trust deeds when 
working out compensation for mis-selling PPI. So I dont make a further  award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13939194copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy  with what The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc have offered to do to put things 
right following their complaint about the sale of payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs S complained that RBS mis-sold PPI alongside six loans. RBS investigated  the complaint. 
It thought  that one of the loans didnt include PPI. But it upheld the complaints  about the remaining 
loans.
RBS says that it looked at a complaint about one of the loans (account number ending 4608) in 2010 
 and says it paid £5,424.69 as compensation  at that time. It has worked out the compensation  
should now include an extra £1,134.35.
For the remaining loans, it worked out compensation would be £12,417.31
But Mr and Mrs S both granted trust deeds in 2007 under Scottish  insolvency law. This is a less 
formal alternative  to a sequestration. RBS says this meant  Mr and Mrs S didnt pay back everything 
they owed. And so RBS wants  to first deduct the compensation it worked out from the amounts Mr 
and Mrs S didnt have  to repay.
Mr and Mrs S think  RBS should pay the compensation directly to them.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint, but thought what RBS planned to do was fair.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the adjudicators  view. The complaint has been referred  to me for a 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The rules I follow require me to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
As RBS has said the complaints about the sale of PPI should  be upheld, Ive just looked  at whether its 
offer is fair.
In this case, the relevant law is Scots law. Im aware that in some cases the Scottish courts  have said 
that PPI compensation  may be paid to directly  to the consumer,  even though  they didnt repay  
everything they owed when they entered the trust deed.
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court held that a consumer,  not the trustee  of 
the trust deed, was entitled  to his PPI compensation because his standard form trust deed was 
terminated on the final  distribution of the estate, which had taken place before  either the consumer 
or the trustee knew of the potential PPI claim.
And in Donnelly v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2017] SAC (Civ) 1 the Sheriff Appeal Court said that a 
business couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which she was 
discharged when her trust deed ended. RBS has appealed this decision to the Inner House of the 
Court of Session, so the outcome may change.
Ref: DRN13939195To be clear,  though I will take into account the law I am not bound  to follow  it. And the rules also say 
that if I do decide to award compensation this may be such  amount as I consider  to be fair 
compensation, whether  or not a court would  award  compensation.
Having carefully considered the points raised  by Mr and Mrs S and RBS, I think its fair for RBS to 
deduct the compensation  from the amount  Mr and Mrs S didnt have  to repay  when  the trust deed 
ended. Ill explain why.
RBS says Mr and Mrs S owed them £36,380.06 when they entered the trust deed.  It received 
payments of £18,195.69.  This meant that there was a remaining £18,184.37 that Mr and Mrs S didnt 
have to repay.
RBS cant  now chase  Mr and Mrs S for this money   when the trust deed ended  the debt was 
extinguished. But RBS has worked out the compensation for mis-selling  PPI is £12,417.31, plus an 
extra £1,134.35 in respect of the loan it paid compensation for in 2010.
This is a lot less than Mr and Mrs S didnt have to repay following the end of the trust deed.
I dont think it would  be fair to tell RBS to pay Mr and Mrs S this money  directly  when they didnt have 
to repay RBS a greater amount following the end of the trust deed.
Im also mindful  that the only reason  Mr and Mrs S would receive this money  now is because they 
didnt complain about  the PPI on these  loans  until after the trust deed ended. If they had complained 
about the PPI at that time, then RBS could clearly have used the compensation to reduce  the amount 
they owed  or it could have paid the compensation to the trustee for the benefit  of the rest of their 
creditors. They wouldnt have received this money directly.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs S have said about this. They  say that RBS agreed to the trust 
deed and didnt object  to the trustees discharge. At that point  the debts were  written off and they no 
longer owed  RBS anything. They  dont think RBS should offset the PPI compensation against an 
imaginary debt.  I appreciate  why Mr and Mrs S feels this way. To be clear, Im not saying  the debt still 
exists  and RBS isnt chasing them for this debt. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I think it 
would be very unfair for RBS to pay Mr and Mrs S the compensation  directly without first deducting 
the amounts they didnt  have to repay thanks to the trust deed.
Mr and Mrs S also say that a family  member received over £20,000 in PPI after a trust deed finished  
and think thats unfair. But Im only looking  at whats fair in the individual circumstances of Mr and Mrs 
Ss complaint   and I dont think that what other people  received,  in what may well have been very 
different circumstances,  makes a difference  in this case.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, based on what Ive seen so far, I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc to deduct the compensation for mis-selling PPI from the amount  Mr and Mrs S didnt have to 
repay it following  the trust deed.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1393919