K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that TSB Bank plc didnt close her credit  card account when she asked  it 
to.
background 
On 26 February 2019, Miss M contacted TSB by telephone to ask it to close her credit card. 
But the agent she spoke to incorrectly told her that she couldnt close  her account over the 
telephone. Instead, she was told she would  have to either write to or attend a branch in order 
to make this request.  So, Miss M wrote  to her branch.  But she was told she would need to 
telephone credit card services. 
When TSB issued its final response  it accepted it could have closed Miss Ms credit  card 
over the telephone or transferred her to the credit  card department,  which could have 
assisted with that process.  And to apologise  for this error TSB compensated her £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience she had experienced. It also paid Miss M £12 as a goodwill 
gesture to reflect any telephone calls, fuel and parking costs she may have  incurred in 
attending a branch. In its final response  TSB also said it would  close  Miss Ms credit card 
account on 7 May 2019. But months later it was still showing  on Miss Ms credit report, which  
she believes  resulted  in her mortgage  application  being declined.  So, she brought her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into this complaint and thought TSB could have done more  to assist 
Miss M in closing her credit card account. So, to recognise what happened they thought  TSB 
should pay additional compensation to Miss M in the sum of £50  therefore  increasing the 
overall award here to £112. They also thought TSB should amend Miss Ms credit file to 
correctly record that her account had been  closed. 
TSB agreed  to pay the additional £50 our investigator had recommended to resolve this 
complaint. But Miss M thought she should  be paid an additional  £100  in compensation. TSB 
declined to pay this amount.  So, Miss M asked for a final decision by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether TSB made an error in the way it dealt with Miss Ms 
request that it close her credit card account.  I also have to determine  whether the amount 
thats been offered to resolve this complaint is fair and reasonable. 
The starting point  here is that TSB should follow its customers requests, unless theres good 
reason not to. Here, Miss M gave it instructions over the telephone on 26 February 2019 to 
close her credit card account.  As her account  wasnt in arrears  I can see no reason why 
TSB shouldnt have done what  Miss M asked. Instead though it told her that she would need 
to close her account either in branch or in writing. This was an error. And Im satisfied TSB 
could have done more to facilitate Miss Ms request here.
Miss M said she wrote to her branch  to ask it to close  her credit card account.  She also told 
us that she telephoned credit  card services afterwards. TSB said it doesnt  have records to 
show Miss Ms letter was received or that a call was made to its credit card department.  But 
Ref: DRN12782712on balance, given that Miss M wanted  to close her account, Im persuaded its more likely 
than not that she followed  the advice TSB gave her during Februarys call and that she wrote 
to her branch. I also believe  she telephoned credit card services as she said. Im pleased  to 
see that TSB gave  Miss M the benefit of the doubt  about what  she said she did to try to 
close her account. And its already paid her £12 to cover any telephone or sundry  expenses  
she incurred, which I think is reasonable.
I think that, even if TSB didnt receive Miss Ms written instruction to close  her account or 
have a record of the call she made to credit card services, it knew  she wanted to close her 
account based on what she told it in February  over the telephone. Bearing in mind her 
account had a credit balance,  I also think it would  have been reasonable for TSB to contact 
Miss M to query how she wanted that balance paid to her. So, Im satisfied there were 
opportunities after Februarys telephone  call for TSB to close Miss Ms credit  card account, 
which it missed.
TSB said it closed Miss Ms account  in May 2019.  This was about three months  after she 
had made  her original  request for it to do so. I can appreciate  how frustrating this delay was 
to Miss M. And I understand  that TSB has now agreed to backdate Miss Ms account  closure  
to 26 February 2019. It accepts this is the date it should have closed her account. I think  this 
is fair and reasonable. 
I understand that Miss M has concerns as to whether her account has been closed because 
she says she was able to continue to access her account via online banking  after the date 
TSB say her account  was closed. Miss M says when she closed her savings and current  
account they were  immediately removed from online banking.  So, she couldnt see them 
when she logged in. 
I can see that our investigator  asked  TSB to provide  an explanation about  this. In its 
response it said that credit card accounts  are the only ones that will remain visible  after an 
account has been closed. So, this explains why Miss M wasnt  able to see her savings and 
current account online after theyd been  closed. TSB also explained that Miss Ms credit  card 
account will be visible through online banking for six months after the account closure date. 
This is TSBs policy  in case a customer needs to refer back  to online statements after their 
account has been closed. I dont think this is unreasonable. Im also satisfied that leaving the 
account accessible to Miss M via online banking hasnt detrimentally affected her.  
Miss M says shes continued  to receive  emails  inviting  her to view her online credit card 
statements. But her account had a credit balance  of 85 pence, which explains why 
statements continued to be sent to her. I cant fairly find this was an error on TSBs part or 
that it meant  her account remained open.  And given that this sum has now been paid to her 
Im satisfied she wont be receiving any further  statements.  
Overall, theres no evidence to suggest  to me that Miss Ms credit  card account was still 
open or operational after the date TSB said it closed  it. 
Miss M also complains that her credit card account continued to show on her credit  file 
because she believes this led to her mortgage application being declined. I think  it would be 
helpful if I explain to Miss M that in order for me to award compensation based  on this I 
would have to be satisfied that her mortgage application was declined specifically because  
her credit card account with TSB continued  to show on her credit  file. 
Ref: DRN12782713I have to take into account  here that there  can be many reasons why a mortgage provider 
may decline to offer credit.  I understand that our investigator offered Miss M the opportunity 
to provide evidence  to show that her mortgage application was declined  solely  because  her 
credit card account remained open. But she hasnt  been able to do so. 
I also have to bear in mind that Miss Ms open credit  card account  had a credit balance.  As 
Miss M didnt owe TSB money or have an account in arrears Im satisfied that TSB wouldnt 
have been reporting this account adversely to credit reference agencies.  It follows  that I cant  
fairly find that TSBs  error here impacted on Miss M in the way she believes. Im satisfied 
that TSB have now amended Miss Ms credit file to reflect the true date of her account 
closure. So, for the reasons  set out I wont be asking it to do any more. 
After our investigator reviewed Miss Ms complaint they recommended that TSB pay an 
additional £50 in compensation to reflect the delay in TSB closing her account.  Miss M felt 
this recommendation  was phrased ambiguously and she thought our investigator had told 
TSB to pay an additional £100. She says she would have accepted an additional £100 to 
resolve her complaint.  
Ive read our investigators  view carefully  and it clearly says TSB should also pay an 
additional £50 compensation  to bring  the total to £112. And when Miss M asked for more 
compensation they responded  saying I am still of the opinion TSB should  increase the 
compensation to £100.  So I cant agree that confusion was caused in the amount  of 
compensation our investigator was recommending to resolve this complaint. 
I appreciate that Miss M feels very strongly  about  the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
assessed whether  the level of compensation offered to Miss M appropriately recognises 
what happened. She was inconvenienced and I dont  doubt she wouldve been  frustrated 
that her account remained open  for almost  three  months after she requested  its closure. But 
I think the additional £50 compensation award  our investigator has recommended for the 
trouble and upset  Miss M was caused is fair to recognise the impact this delay had here. So 
I wont be telling TSB to pay more than that to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should pay Miss M £50 
compensation to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1278271