K820x#14complaint
Mr S complaint relates  to a particular  Contracts for Differences (CFD)  Options trade  in his 
trading account  with Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500).  He says an illegitimate margin  call closure  
was applied to it, based on false pricing from Plus500, and that the event led to unfair  
closures of other trades. He also says no prior notice was given to him about the margin  call 
 whereas, previously, such notice was usually  given.
background
In summary:
Mr S Put 2790 March USA 500 trade  was a buy (or long) CFD Option (Put) trade 
opened on 21 February 2019 at the price  of 43.24 and was based on the S&P 500 
Index  the trade.
The trade was without a guaranteed  stop setting.
The trade was closed on 24 February  2019  at 23:26:42 (GMT)  at the price  of 23.23 
as a result of a margin call, generating a loss to Mr S of around $4,000 (or around 
£3,000).
Based  on available account  evidence,  after opening the trade  Mr S was required to 
maintain a margin level of £663.31  in account  equity; the margin call was triggered 
around the time his account equity  had dropped  below  £663.31  to £256.58. The 
margin level required to maintain the trade and two others was higher at £784.75 and 
that too was breached by the drop in account equity.
The drop in account equity correlated with a drop in Plus500s pricing for the trade  at 
the time.  The legitimacy of the drop in price  is what Mr S disputes (alongside his 
claim that he should have been  given prior notice of the margin  call). He says, 
essentially, that the price drop was false/manipulated/inconsistent with the underlying 
and wider market, and that but for Plus500s  price drop the margin call would not 
have occurred. 
Plus500s position is mainly as follows:
On 24 February 2019 and at 23:26:42 (GMT) its bid/ask (sell/buy) pricing  for the 
trade was 23.23/29.77, hence application  of the sell price of 23.23 to close the (buy)  
trade.
At the same time Bloombergs  pricing  for the underlying market was 32.50/34.75.
It accepts  that its spread was 290% higher than the market rate but asserts that this 
was within its dynamic  spread tolerance for the instrument  and it has submitted  
evidence of this dynamic spread tolerance for the instrument. It says Mr S 
acceptance of its terms and conditions (for his account) included acceptance of its 
Order Execution  Policy (OEP) and of the stipulation within  the OEP that his CFD 
Options trades would be based  on Plus500s prices   not any other price and that its 
prices may differ from those available elsewhere.
Its prices are reliably derived from a feed of rates received from data providers,  and 
the data providers obtain their data directly from the Chicago Mercantile Exchange 
(CME). A link to the CME is available in the instrument  details section on its trading 
platform.
It rejects  the allegation of false/manipulated pricing or that its pricing did not reflect 
the underlying  market.  It does  not practice such pricing; it has given Mr S screenshot  
evidence of its price chart  for the trade  showing that the sell rate reached  23.23 at 
the time the trade was closed;  it has given him screenshot evidence of its price  feed 
Ref: DRN12283922at the time showing the 23.23/29.77 spread at the time the trade  was closed; and it 
has submitted evidence  using  the Call 2890  May USA 500 instrument (2019) as an 
example  which further illustrates price feeds  received and pricing  (on its platform) 
consistent with those price feeds.  In addition, evidence from Bloombergs rates for 
the underlying  instrument  shows a price drop around the same time the trade was 
closed  which supports  the price drop/movement on its platform.
Its pricing  and pricing  for options (and CFD Options)  are not solely  dependent on 
the relevant underlying market price.  They are reflective of the underlying  market  
price but could differ, after taking other factors related to Options pricing  into account. 
Its terms and OEP  explain this.
The terms agreed by Mr S also confirmed that his account  was based on an 
execution only service:  that it was his sole responsibility  to manage the account, to 
manage his trading  within  it and to monitor his margin in this respect;  that margin call 
closures can be applied to trades where margin requirements in an account are 
breached; that this was the case for Mr S, hence  the margin  call closures he 
experienced; and that it was not obliged to give prior notice of those margin  call 
closures and had not committed  to do so.
Mr S position is mainly as follows:
There was no market  event, volatility issue or liquidity issue   related to the trades 
underlying market  to match or explain the price movement  that Plus500 alleges 
(around the time the trade  was closed).  There was no such  price movement in the 
underlying market. In the absence of such underlying price movement  and given 
the correlation between Options prices and the relevant underlying market prices  
the price movement alleged by Plus500 cannot be justified.
The market was well bid at the time,  with active market  makers and without trading 
problems so the notion of a 50% price drop in this context  is arguably  inexplicable.
It is odd/suspicious that Plus500s platform reflected the alleged  price movement only 
in the price for the trade, there  was little to no reflection  within the Put 2785  
instrument and the same was the case for the Call versions  of the same  instrument. 
It is arguably impossible for an alleged  (and significant) price movement for an 
instrument to behave  in this manner  that is, affecting his Put trade  but hardly (if at 
all) affecting other relevant Puts and Calls in the options chain based on the same  
instrument.
It is also odd/suspicious   and contrary to the logic of options  trading  that the price 
of his long 2790  Put position,  when it was closed, was half that of the long 2780  
Put position  (which  had a lower strike price) on Plus500s platform at the same  time. 
It is noteworthy that while  the alleged price  movement supposedly indicated that US 
futures prices were  rising  in price  hence the movement against his long Put trade   
he had a short NASDAQ based position  that was closed around  the same  time as the 
trade because US futures prices were  falling (not rising). This too conflicts with the 
price movement  alleged  by Plus500.
Evidence (including screenshots)  presented  by Plus500 in support of its position 
cannot be relied upon as such evidence has probably also been  manipulated.
There have been other instances  in which Plus500 has manipulated the outcomes of 
his trades and its wrongdoings in those  cases should be noted  and redressed too.
Plus500 has committed  other  comparable wrongdoings in the past and they were 
resolved amicably  but it has been  unreasonable in refusing to resolve  the above 
matter(s). Previously, it also gave him prior notices  of margin  calls but unreasonably 
failed to do so in the matter above.
Ref: DRN12283923One of our investigators  looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. He reached this conclusion for broadly the same  reasons as those given by 
Plus500. He also noted Mr S displeasure about  the length of time taken by Plus500 to 
respond to his complaint but considered that its response within eight weeks  was not 
unreasonable. 
Mr S disagreed with this outcome  and maintained his key points. He also considered that the 
matter had not been sufficiently investigated; that Plus500s evidence had not been properly 
tested and that evidence he submitted (including  screenshots illustrating the anomalies he 
highlighted in Plus500s pricings) had not been given due weight. The matter  was referred to 
an ombudsman. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wider Issues
Mr S allegations about previous pricing  wrongdoings  by Plus500  those which  he says 
were resolved and those  which  he says were not and should now be addressed   do not 
appear to have featured in the initial complaint submissions  he made to this service  or in the 
complaint he made to Plus500 (or in the complaint Plus500 addressed).  
I do not consider  that these matters  that is, those which Mr S says should now be 
addressed  can fairly be determined within this decision for the above  reason. Especially as 
they do not appear to have been  included, with relevant particulars,  in the complaint Plus500 
addressed. Complaints to this service should be made after they have been properly 
presented to the respondent  firms  and after those firms have been given an opportunity  (and 
reasonable time) to address them.
The Margin  Call Closure(s)
It does not appear  to be in dispute   and, I consider, ought not to be in dispute  that 
Plus500 had a contractual right to apply margin call closures to trades/positions in 
circumstances where  a margin breach has occurred in an account. 
The user agreement for Mr S account  expressly provided for this; the agreement made it   
Mr S responsibility to monitor and manage margin requirements in his account and to avoid 
breaching such  requirements;  the agreement gave Plus500 the right (and discretion) to close 
open positions within an account where  such a breach occurs without prior notice to the 
accountholder (given that the accountholder  ought  to have been monitoring margin  within  
the account);  and I have not seen  evidence that Plus500 waived  any of these provisions in 
Mr S case  or gave him an undertaking to provide prior notice of margin  call closures.
Available evidence   as summarised in the background section above  is that the margin  
requirement was breached in Mr S account  and that is what  led to closure  of the three 
positions he highlighted (starting with the trade). I address, below, Mr S complaint about the 
pricing that led to the margin breach. However,  in terms of Plus500s application of the 
margin call closures, I do not consider that it did so wrongly.
Closing Price for The Trade
Ref: DRN12283924First, I address reliability of evidence.  Both parties  have submitted  and relied upon 
screenshot evidence.  Without cause to do so, I am not persuaded to regard Plus500s 
screenshot evidence  with suspicion. I apply the same approach to the screenshot  evidence 
that Mr S has submitted. I do not have  such cause and I do not consider either set of 
screenshots to be unreliable. I also note that they appear to address different  aspects  of the 
case  Mr S screenshots mainly illustrate his points about anomalies in the relevant options 
chain beyond the trade whilst Plus500s screenshots mainly relate to the chart,  price  and 
price feed specifically  for the trade  so they do not appear to be in conflict with each-other.
I wish to note my understanding  of the key points that Mr S has made about what should be 
expected in an Options chain based  on the behaviour  of a common  underlying  market  that 
relates to it. I do not suggest that what he has argued is wrong, in principle, but variations 
can sometimes apply given the nature of Options pricing (as addressed  below). I also do not 
suggest that it is unreasonable for him to question why pricing for the other  long Calls and 
Puts he has referred  to differed  from pricing  for the trade (that is, his 2790 Put position), 
despite sharing  the same  wider chain  (and underlying market).
However, I am not persuaded that these  arguments  are the prerequisites to determining  the 
complaint that Mr S believes they are. I say this because of available  evidence of the price  
chart and the price feed that led to the price at which the trade  was closed; because of 
evidence within the OEP which supports the price  chart and price feed; and because  even if 
I accept that the anomalies Mr S has highlighted cast doubt over the pricing  in the Options 
chain he has described that does not automatically  establish that pricing  for the trade was 
wrong. It is arguable, in theory and in the alternative, that perhaps pricing  for the other parts 
of the chain could have  been wrong or could have  been different. 
I acknowledge that the finding  above does not address Mr S point that Plus500s claim 
about a price movement  for the trade conflicts with the absence of correlating price 
movement in the underlying market at the time.  However, I also do not consider that this 
automatically establishes  that pricing for the trade was wrong. 
As both parties will be aware, Options  pricing  is somewhat  unique.  A concept such as the 
Black Scholes Model (which can be used to determine Options prices), for example,  
presents multiple  pricing elements that are not common in pricing for other 
instruments/securities. Elements in Options  pricing  go beyond the price of the underlying  
security or market. They  extend  to factors like time (including time to expiry of the Option) 
and implied volatility  (which is based on a theory  for future volatility,  is distinct  from current  
volatility and is arguably a dynamic  and uncertain factor). Implied volatility  is very important 
in Options pricing.
In this context, it cannot reasonably be assumed that a change  in an Options price  must be 
a mirror image of  or must be directly  correlated to  a change or a similar sized change  in 
the movement  of the underlying security  or market  it relates to.
A third party  provided the price feed for Plus500, so this service has not been in a position to 
dissect the workings of how the relevant price feed was produced. In the circumstances, it is 
reasonable for Plus500 to disclose evidence of the price  feed it used and to rely on that as 
justification for the price it applied to the trade. It has also highlighted that the price feeds 
relate to data from the CME  (a known exchange  for Options) and that a link in this respect is 
available on its platform. This suggests that Plus500 sought to foster  a degree of 
transparency in its platforms  Options  prices.
Ref: DRN12283925In some cases, creation of a price feed is not as remote to a firm as it initially  might  seem.  I 
have considered this possibility  with regards to Plus500, especially as the OEP appears  to 
say it gets its price feed through its parent  company. Sometimes, with a degree  of probing, 
an arrangement in which a parent company determines prices for a subsidiary can be akin to 
the subsidiary determining its own prices. However,  this does not appear to apply to Plus500  
as the OEP explains that independent third parties are indeed  the source(s)  of the price 
feeds, they determine the prices and their price feeds then pass  through  Plus500s parent  
company to reach Plus500.
Plus500s evidence  of the price feed that triggered the closing price for the trade  and the 
margin breach  matches the price chart  used  for the same purpose  and both match the 
closing price that was applied  to the trade. Overall, on balance  and in the context of 
Plus500s prices being reasonably guided by the price feeds it received (and with available  
evidence of the price  feed related  to the trade),  I do not consider that the closing price  for the 
trade was false or manipulated.
Plus500s Complaint Response
I agree  with the investigators finding  that Plus500  provided its final response  to Mr S 
complaint within  the eight  weeks period expected by the regulator. I have also seen 
documentary record of LiveChat Conversation transcripts  in which Plus500 engaged with   
Mr S and his queries  before  and after its final response.  I do not consider that Plus500 
mishandled the complaints process. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 4 July 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1228392