K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Hastings Insurance  Services  Limited failed to correctly  update  the CUE 
(Claims Underwriting  Exchange)  database when he notified them  of an incident involving the 
vehicle they insured. 
background
In February 2017,  Mr Es car hit a branch causing  damage to his car. He says he called 
Hastings to notify them of the incident. He says if he had made a claim on his insurance, the 
cost of the excess payable would be more  than the cost of the repairs. So he opted to get his 
repairs done by a private garage and didnt  proceed  with making a claim on his insurance. 
Mr E contacted Hastings  to let them know he wouldnt  be making a claim.
In January 2019, Mr E insured his vehicle with another insurer who said he had failed to 
declare a claim in February 2017. The incident  was noted as a claim rather  than just as 
notification of incident. Mr E contacted Hastings to rectify this on 2 January 2019.
Hastings accepted theyd made an error  and said they made all attempts to correct the error 
on the day they were  notified by Mr E. They also issued Mr E a letter the same day 
confirming that no claim  was made and that the incident was for notification  only.  The error 
was confirmed as corrected by 10 January 2019. 
Hastings accepted Mr E had spent some time trying to rectify the error they made and 
offered him £100 compensation. But Mr E didnt  think this adequately compensated him for 
the distress and inconvenience  he had to suffer. He asked for £200 but Hastings didnt 
agree.
An investigator at this service looked at this complaint and agreed that Hastings offer of 
£100 was fair and in line with the compensation we would award at this service.  She didnt 
uphold this complaint.  
As Mr E didnt agree  with the investigator, this has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain.
Hastings accepts the errors that were made but no agreement has been reached as to the 
level of compensation  that Mr E should  be awarded.  So Ive looked  at the impact of the error 
on Mr E and also what Hastings has done to correct  this.
In terms of the impact  this error  has had on Mr E, I understand he has spent considerable 
time speaking to Hastings  to rectify  this and has made contact with them several  times.  I 
appreciate this must have been  a difficult period,  particularly when he was first informed of 
the claim and believed he was at risk of his new insurance being cancelled. But I feel that 
Hastings has done everything it could have  done to correct this error swiftly and eliminate 
any further impact to Mr E.
Ref: DRN13894342Mr E notified  Hastings of the error  on 2 January 2019. I can see from the evidence  available  
that Hastings  did request  a correction of the CUE  database the same  day, as well as issue  a 
letter to Mr E confirming no claim had been  made.  This meant that any further impact to 
Mr E was prevented and he was able to confirm  to his insurers immediately that no claim 
was actually made. This also prevented  any impact  to his No Claims Bonus. 
I know that Mr E says the same thing happened  again later that month on another of his 
vehicles with another insurer,  but I cant say that this was as a result of anything Hastings 
had done or failed to do. They had already confirmed by 10 January 2019 that the error  had 
been corrected.  In addition, Mr E could have provided the new insurer with the letter  
Hastings had provided on 2 January 2019 confirming no claim had been made.  This would 
have prevented any further  issues  from arising, so I dont think further  compensation is 
warranted here.
I also havent seen  any evidence that Mr E has suffered any financial loss as a result  of the 
error. Whilst I appreciate  the time hes spent resolving this complaint and his overall  
concerns, from what Ive seen, Hastings  has done  everything they could have done  to 
correct the error as quickly as was possible. So having considered everything, Im not 
persuaded that the compensation should  be increased. I think  the compensation offered by 
Hastings is fair and is in line with what  we would offer at this service.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Hastings Insurance Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1389434