K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about a mistake on his standing order. He caused him to miss a higher rate 
of interest on his account with Lloyds Bank PLC.
background
Mr B had been a customer of Lloyds for many  years. But he had problems with his online 
banking. He had used a monthly  saver account for two years.  And he started  a new one in 
August 2017.  Mr B intended to save £400 a month for 12 months.  And he expected  an 
interest rate of 3%. But his standing order stopped after 10 months.  And the £400 was then 
paid into his old saver  account which had a much lower rate of interest. 
Mr B isnt sure whether it was a mistake  by Lloyds or himself. But he had a lot of difficulty 
trying to contact the bank  to discuss the problem.  And he thinks  the bank should be 
responsible for taking  due care of all their customers  when using online banking.  So he 
wants compensation for loss of interest and the cost of his calls.
Lloyds said its records showed Mr B had used his online banking  on 18 May 2018. He had 
cancelled the £400 standing order from his current account to the monthly  saver. On the 
same day Mr B had set up two new standing  orders from his current  account - £400 to his 
old monthly saver account and £250 to a new monthly saver.  So Lloyds couldnt see it had 
made any mistakes.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with Lloyds response. So he contacted our service and our adjudicator  
looked into the matter. She could see the standing order had been accidently set up to pay 
into the wrong account. And Mr B had missed out on three months interest  because  of it. But 
it seemed Mr B had made the changes online. Hed had no interaction with anyone  from 
Lloyds. So she couldnt hold the bank responsible  for the missed  interest.  And she felt 
Lloyds had dealt  with Mr Bs complaint promptly. So she wouldnt ask the bank to 
compensate Mr B.
Mr B didnt agree. He accepted the mistake was probably his. But he felt Lloyds shouldve  
noticed the error and looked  after its customer.  The banks systems couldve warned him he 
was about to pay money into an account  with 0.2% interest when the other account was 
paying 3.0%. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration. He has some hearing difficulties  and lives some way 
from his nearest branch. So he uses online banking to manage his finances. And its vital for 
Mr B that he is able to communicate with his bank  if there is a problem.
Mr B has raised a lot of useful points about the service he received during and after the 
mistake. From the banks records it does appear  that the standing order was altered by Mr B 
through his online banking.  But Mr B says the banks  systems shouldve alerted him to the 
lower interest rate on the account he was changing to. 
And he feels the bank  hasnt taken account  of his hearing problems. He had to spend a long 
time on the telephone rather than being  able to leave a secure  message.
Ref: DRN15813682Ive looked carefully  at everything Mr B has said.  But its also important to understand there 
are limits to what our service can do. Our role is to see if Lloyds has made  a mistake. And if 
so what it needs  to do to put Mr B back in the position he shouldve  been in. But we cant 
look at the business practises  of Lloyds or any other bank. Thats the role of its regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. 
Lloyds has provided  a system to allow customers to set up, alter and delete  standing orders 
online. But there are limits  to the number  of checks the system can carry out. It doesnt 
compare interest rates,  for example, to see if Mr B might be making a mistake or would be 
better served by a different  account.  
I do appreciate what Mr B is saying. But its for Lloyds to make  the commercial  decision 
whether to offer more  sophisticated checking  in its processes or whether to keep them 
straight-forward and uncomplicated. In this case the banks systems will no doubt  carry out 
checks to make sure the account numbers and sort codes are valid. But it is up to the 
customer to make sure they put in the correct details, amounts, frequency and so on. And, 
as Ive explained, its not something we can ask Lloyds  to change.
I realise if Mr B had been able to make  the changes in a branch then the staff mightve 
noticed the mistake  and queried Mr Bs decision.  But he used  online  banking to alter the 
standing orders. And unfortunately the changes  were accepted because the details were 
valid. So I cant really say Lloyds has done anything wrong.
Mr B is also unhappy with the difficulty he had dealing  with the complaint. From what  Ive 
seen I think Lloyds has responded promptly and fairly. But it mustve been difficult  for Mr B to 
discuss the matter using the telephone.  I can see our adjudicator  has made Lloyds  aware of 
Mr Bs hearing issues. And I hope  the bank is able to put something in place so that Mr B 
can communicate more  efficiently in future. I think thats the right response.
I know Mr B feels the bank has a responsibility  towards its customers  when they use its 
online banking. And Im sure Lloyds  is constantly  trying to improve things to make sure it 
offers the best possible service. But Mr B altered  his standing  order,  not Lloyds. So I cant 
really say the bank  was responsible for the standing order being sent to the wrong account 
or for Mr B missing out on the higher rate of interest. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. And I do sympathise with his concerns. 
But I dont think Lloyds  has made any mistakes. And I wont  be asking it to do anything 
more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1581368