K820x#14complaint
The consumer complained about  Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds service in 
connection with his motor insurance policy.
 
background
Mr C was involved in a road incident with a pedestrian and he reported it to Advantage. He 
didnt want to make a claim, but said he would co-operate if the other person made a claim 
against him, because  he felt that they were to blame. 
He was unhappy with how Advantage later handled  the matter.  He said that they made 
mistakes in their dealings with him, including using the wrong address, generally giving him 
poor service, and not acknowledging that he was a vulnerable customer.   
Advantage didnt  accept  all of Mr Cs points, but they did apologise for their poor service and 
offered him £100 in compensation. Mr C didnt think that was enough and was also worried 
that the compensation offer would be on his insurance record.  So, he brought  his complaint 
to us. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that his complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought that 
Advantage had acted  reasonably in dealing with his complaint and that the compensation 
they had offered was fair. 
Mr C didnt agree and so his complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr C reported the incident, Advantage appointed investigating agents to take a 
statement from him. He complained that Advantage didnt tell him that they were instructing 
agents, or who they were, and that they hadnt  changed his address on all their systems, so 
they sent letters to him at his former address. He was worried  that theyd  divulged  
confidential information to the occupant  of his old house, and that they might know  the other 
person in the incident. He also felt that Advantage were in breach of Financial  Conduct  
Authority requirements. 
He didnt think the compensation they offered  him was sufficient to reflect their failures or the 
anxiety theyd caused him. The adjudicator explained that this Services  role is to decide if a 
business acted  fairly  and reasonably and decide if any compensation  offered  was 
reasonable, but not to punish a business  via a compensation award. 
When Advantage instructed the investigation agents, the other person hadnt made a claim, 
but I think that it was reasonable  for Advantage to want  to get a statement from Mr C while 
the incident was relatively  fresh in his mind.  Mr C says they didnt tell him they had instructed 
investigating agents. But Ive listened to the recording  of the call when he reported the 
incident, and Advantage  clearly tell Mr C that they might instruct agents. As they then did so 
within about the next month, I think that was sufficient warning,  and I dont think it was 
necessary for them to formally notify him beforehand  that they had or who the agents  were. 
Advantage did tell him by letter in early  January,  but he says he did not receive that. 
Ref: DRN16478052Ive seen the investigating agents report. They said that they phoned Mr C several  times  
and visited his house twice in November  2017 and left messages asking him to contact 
them, but he didnt.  Its clear that the address Advantage  gave  them and which  they visited  
in November 2017 was the correct one at that time. Mr C said that he moved  to a new house 
in December, but he accepted that the agents had tried to call him, and said that he had 
received two rather tatty notes through his letterbox from them.  But he said he didnt get in 
touch with the agents as he thought  it might be scam. He also didnt call Advantage to 
check, despite Advantage having advised  him that they might use agents.
Because Advantage thought that Mr C wasnt cooperating with their investigation,  they sent 
him letters in January  and February 2018 asking him to do so, or they would consider asking 
the underwriter to cancel  his insurance.  Mr C said that he didnt receive  those letters 
because hed moved house  by then, so Advantage had mistakenly  sent the letters  to his 
former address. Advantage said theyd actioned his change of address on 20 February 
2018. But they now admit  they didnt change it on all his records.  
Mr C said hed told them about  his new address before  20 February, and it just took them  
that long to act on it. He told us hed moved  in December, but in his complaint  letter  to 
Advantage in July 2018 he asked Advantage to amend  the address you hold for me to 
reflect the information I provided in February of this year. So, if Mr C moved in December 
2017, but didnt tell Advantage about  his move  until February 2018,  I dont think  that 
Advantage can be blamed for him not receiving Advantages letters in that intervening  
period.
Advantage sent Mr C another warning  letter in April, to his old address, and when that was 
returned, they emailed  him correspondence.  Mr C then complained  about  the tone of that, 
and that they mislead him that the other  person had claimed against him, when  in fact she 
hadnt. He said this caused him worry, and that because he didnt  hear from Advantage for 
months, he thought  the matter had been resolved. He was also worried that the previous  
letters had gone to his old address.  
I agree  that from when  Mr C told them about  his change of address, which  he said was 
February, Advantage should have used  his new address. But as they sent the April letter 
recorded delivery and it was returned  to Advantage, theres nothing to suggest  that their 
sending that letter to the wrong address compromised his privacy. Advantage have 
apologised for not changing his address on all their records, which  was they said because 
they were updating  their policy  systems,  and they offered him compensation for it.
When they made contact  with him in July Advantage were still under  the impression that he 
was refusing to co-operate and so they still warned  about cancelling  his insurance,  and 
holding Mr C liable for their costs of any claim.  He complained that their correspondence 
was aggressive and threatening and caused  him a lot of stress and anxiety. He felt that they 
had not taken into account  that he had a mental  health condition and so was a vulnerable 
customer.  
He said hed told Advantage  on several  occasions about his mental health condition  but 
Advantage say that they didnt know about  it, and they apologised if the tone and content of 
their letters caused  him offence. We certainly  expect  businesses  to take vulnerable  
customers needs into account in communicating with them.  The adjudicators  manager  
asked Mr C for details of when and how hed told Advantage  about this. But he hasnt sent 
that, so I cant fairly hold Advantage  responsible  there. 
Ref: DRN16478053He was also unhappy that Advantage didnt acknowledge  his complaint promptly  enough.  
Advantage had sent their acknowledgement of it to the wrong address, but again  they have 
apologised for this and offered him compensation for it. And they sent their final response to 
his complaint to the correct address and within about a month after his complaint, which  was 
well within the required timescales, so I dont think he was prejudiced  by not getting an 
earlier acknowledgement. 
Advantage accept  that that elements of their service had been  poor,  and offered Mr C £100 
compensation for any inconvenience caused, sending  a cheque for this as an ex gratia 
payment. Mr C didnt cash it as he felt the accompanying letter was misleading. This was 
because it was from Advantages  claims team  which he felt suggested  it would be treated as 
a claim payment rather than an ex gratia  payment. But I think it was clear from Advantages 
final response letter that the cheque  was simply compensation.  
Advantage had at the start told Mr C theyd keep the claim open for 12 months  in case the 
third party contacted them. They later told the adjudicator that they had since marked  the 
matter on their records as withdrawn/notification  only, although it will remain possible for 
the other person to claim in future. I see hes unhappy that Advantage told the adjudicator  
and not him and sees it as proof  of their poor communication to him. I cant  consider this as 
an element of his complaint, as Advantage  havent had the opportunity  to formally respond 
to that, and he would have to take that up with them first. 
Mr C would like to know how compensation is assessed, but theres no formula for this, 
though our website  shows  the types of levels of award we would make in a case such as 
this. I see that Mr C has been stressed  and frustrated by the situation, and he says that it 
has made his mental health worse. I think thats very unfortunate. 
However, it hasnt been shown  that Advantage knew that Mr C had a mental  health  
condition. There will always be some  stress  involved for a person if they have been in an 
accident and someone can potentially make  a claim against them, but that is not 
Advantages fault, and I have to look at whether  Advantages actions made  things any 
worse. 
Advantages actions  in instructing investigating agents were  designed  to help Mr C if the 
other person did claim. Advantage sent the agents to his correct address and the agents 
called him too, but Mr C didnt respond  to them or check with Advantage. So I dont think  it 
was unreasonable in those circumstances for Advantage to think that Mr C was not co-
operating and so to send him further letters. Even  if he didnt receive  all of Advantages 
letters, theyve apologised for that and for the tone of the communications  he did receive.  In 
this case I think that their offer of compensation of £100 does fairly reflect any distress and 
inconvenience that caused  Mr C. 
Mr C said that he did not cash Advantages £100  cheque, and so I would expect Advantage 
to honour their offer and reissue a cheque for that amount, but I dont  require Advantage to 
do anything else.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that dont uphold  this complaint.
 
Ref: DRN16478054Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the consumer to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 June 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1647805