K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  about the way she was treated by Santander UK Plc branch staff when she 
went in to withdraw funds  from her bond.  
In short,  she says:
The staff member discussed her personal details in front of other people, before 
going into a private room.
The staff member questioned why she wanted  to withdraw funds, and implied that 
she had a poor relationship with her husband  which upset her. 
Her husband is also now aware  of what was said and this has caused  problems  in 
their relationship.  
background
Santander upheld  the complaint. It said the staff member didnt mean to cause any offence,  
and has offered her £75 compensation.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and didnt think it should  be upheld.  In 
summary she said:
She could see why Ms S was upset  as she didnt have any problems in her 
relationship. 
But given  the large, early  withdrawal, it wasnt unusual for Santander to ask her 
questions and carry out additional checks.  
Even if Ms Ss experience caused  a delay in purchasing her airline ticket, she wasnt  
prevented from making the withdrawal when she wanted to. 
The business offered £75 to acknowledge the upset caused to Ms S which is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
Ms S disagreed with the investigators view: She doesnt think the offer of compensation is 
enough; she said staff members pointed a finger at her and called  her stupid; the staff 
member questioned her relationship; she feels humiliated; she has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been referred to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Ms S says, I think  Santanders 
offer to pay £75 compensation  is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
Its possible the branch  staff member had made a mistake, and it wasnt Ms S who shed 
spoken to on an earlier occasion. I note that she cant be certain.  Nevertheless,  I cant say 
that the staff member  acted in bad faith.  
Ref: DRN12173912If this was the case, I think  the staff member  should  have discretely established Ms Ss 
identity first and whether  or not she was the same person, before going into what  is evidently 
a sensitive subject  matter for Ms S, particularly as she was accompanied by her husband  at 
the branch.    
I note the staff member  was surprised when Ms S denied having ever met her before. But if 
Ms S had been  a vulnerable customer  I cant safely say that she was  and because of 
this she had been reluctant to discuss the pressure from a third party to get this money, no 
further steps were  taken  by Santander to follow this up, or speak to Ms S on her own before 
proceeding with her request. Thankfully this is not case  before  me. 
Im mindful Ms S says the staff member pointed  a finger at her and called her stupid.  But 
despite what she says,  on the face of the evidence, Im unable to safely conclude  that her 
recollection of this was accurate. 
I note Ms S says this has caused  problems in her relationship, but I still think on the face of 
the evidence,  and on balance, given the overall  circumstances of this complaint, the offer by 
Santander is broadly  fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Santander UK Plc has offered  Ms S £75 compensation  for any trouble and upset caused. It 
should pay this amount  if it hasnt done  so already.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1217391