K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complained hed been unsuitably advised by Marchant McKechnie Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited  in 1995  to transfer preserved benefits from an occupational 
pension scheme  (OPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP) and that the underlying 
investments had been beyond his appetite for risk.
Background
In 1995 Mr T transferred  benefits  from his ex- employers OPS (final  salary) into a PPP.  It 
appears hed ceased  the employment  in February  1994 and had become self-employed. Its 
understood he had either four or six years  relevant service  with the scheme.  I dont consider 
this a material uncertainty here.
At the time he was advised  on transferring his OPS benefits by Marchant McKechnie, he 
was aged 41 and planned to retire at 65. Mr T was divorced and had recently had a child 
with his new partner.
Mr T met with Marchant  McKechnie and their recommendations  were  documented to him in 
a letter  dated  3 November 1995.  It appears Mr T had an existing relationship  with the 
adviser.
The suitability report documented what it was said were Mr Ts reasons for transferring his 
deferred benefits and set out Mr T was aware of the major differences  between the final 
salary benefits scheme and the plan he was transferring into; and that he was prepared to 
give up the final salary  benefits. The letter said:
To reiterate, final salary  pension benefits  are guaranteed by the sponsoring company. In 
contrast, money purchase benefits are not guaranteed  and will fluctuate in terms of value on 
an ongoing basis Following analysis of the transfer value and scheme details, a new 
arrangement would have to achieve an average annual fund growth of 9 8% pa to match  the 
benefits being given up.
Whilst this is at the top end of what could be acceptable..consider that this is a reasonable 
target taking  into account, that you are prepared to accept  a fairly aggressive attitude  to 
investment risk and volatility.  
You have  confirmed that you will accept volatility of capital values in exchange for potential  
greater returns over the longer term.
The letter went on to set out:
You indicated that you are prepared to adopt  a fairly aggressive investment strategy (you 
indicated a level of 8 on a scale of 1-10, where 10 is high risk) placing a strong  emphasis on 
investing into shares, but with some diversification You have confirmed that you accept that 
the value of your funds  might go down as well as up and that you can tolerate the risk of 
moderately large losses in exchange  for the potential of higher returns.
It then set out how it was advised the fund ought to be invested.
In 2018 Mr T complained  about the transfer  advice and also that the underlying investments 
had been beyond his appetite for risk.
Ref: DRN12589072Initially our adjudicator said he thought the advice to transfer had been unsuitable. But he 
went on to change his thinking and issued  a view that the complaint should  not be upheld.
The adjudicator thought  the critical yield required to match the benefits being given up was 
within what the pension  review considered reasonable. He also thought Mr Ts attitude to 
risk was such that the equity based  funds  recommended, could not be described as having 
an unrealistic chance of performing sufficiently well to better the benefits being given up. He 
referred to the importance of considering matters in the context  of the advice being  given in 
1995 and not with the benefit  of hindsight. 
Mr Ts representative  didnt agree. They felt that an undue  degree of importance was put on 
investment growth  rates to the near-exclusion to other risks, in particular annuity  rate risk. 
They said wed upheld other transfer  cases from 1995 and earlier;  and also commented the 
critical yield was only just within the guidance for the pension review, and that had been 
simply to match benefits.
The adjudicator didnt change his view,  he said it was in-line  with industry  standards  and 
forecast projections. He said he did consider the critical  yield required to match  the benefits 
being given up, and also took into account other factors.
The representative reiterated the view the adjudicator had not taken into account the 
absence of annuity rate risk warnings and requested  an ombudsman  decide the matter.
Its said the risk in relation to annuity rates was just as much likely to work against Mr T's 
interests as in favour. There was the possibility  that, even if investment growth had matched 
or bettered  the required  critical yield, a reduction  in annuity rates could have  led to Mr T's 
transferred pension benefits leaving  him worse off than had he remained in the OPS. Mr Ts 
representatives continue  to consider this risk wasnt brought to Mr Ts attention.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I tend to agree with the 
adjudicators thinking  and for broadly the same  reasons.
I accept that based  on the accepted approaches and standards  at the time, it wasnt 
unsuitable for Mr T to have been advised to transfer  from his OPS here. I appreciate  that 
with the benefit of hindsight, and the knowledge  of the associated guarantees of OPS  
benefits compared with investment performance in the intervening years,  Mr T may feel this 
transfer didnt  serve him as well as he had hoped. But that doesnt  mean  Marchant 
McKechnie were wrong to advise in favour of it at the time. It is unfortunate that growth 
projections considered  reasonable at the time, have not been achieved.
Ive reached my thinking on this having taken  into account the information available from the 
time. This includes all that has been said on Mr Ts attitude to investment risk and the critical 
yield. Mr T had only a limited period of scheme membership at the time and was around 23 
years away  from retirement. So I dont consider it unreasonable,  with a significant  period of 
time until retirement to achieve investment growth, for a transfer, in the prevailing 
circumstances to have  been recommended. 
Ref: DRN12589073I have seen there is some disagreement  on Mr Ts attitude to risk at the time. I appreciate 
the suggestion is made that Mr T had a cautious attitude to risk. As such  it is said,  that had 
he been invested in line with whats said was his attitude to risk, it was less likely the critical 
yield would have been met or exceeded.  So, its suggested, this makes  the advice also 
unsuitable; as well as the investment approach.
But I dont accept the information  from the time or Mr Ts circumstances support the 
submission that his attitude to risk ought  to now be reasonably said to have  been  cautious. 
There is sufficient material to enable  me to conclude that Mr T was seen for a number of 
years by the same adviser, and during this time his attitude to risk was regularly reviewed 
and generally  considered  balanced to adventurous. This was prior to, at the time and 
following the transfer. I think Mr T would have  been  aware in general terms of the advisers 
understanding of his approach; even  if he lacked the informed understanding  of what  such 
an attitude to risk might entail. 
Equally I dont accept  submissions suggesting  Mr T had such intellectual  ability  to be 
equivalent to a having sufficient experience  in and understanding of pensions  and 
investments, such as to expect him not to rely on the financial advice he was given. I dont 
consider the investment approach recorded at the time to be remarkable based on his 
circumstances and what was known and recorded.  Nor do I consider  the general investment  
recommendations made, failed to match his appetite for risk. 
I accept there isnt detailed information  contained  in the recommendation letter  on risk, but I 
think there was enough. I consider Mr T would have  understood  sufficiently that he was 
giving up guaranteed benefits and that his future benefits could not be known. The fact that 
Mr Ts fund was exposed to risk, in terms of growth  and what  it could provide, doesnt make  
it necessarily unsuitable.  
The critical yield Mr Ts fund required of 9.8% was close to the rate produced by the 
regulators list of growth  rates produced  for the industry-wide pension  review; it was below it. 
I think it was a level that in the prevailing circumstances was considered viable at the time. 
So I dont  consider this figure suggests, in light of the other information also known about Mr 
T, that the advice  was unsuitable.
I have seen reference by Mr Ts representatives  to external rates published  by this service. 
Having reviewed this, I consider this might have been a reference  to the loss assessment 
calculation assumptions  that have been  provided. If so, this is not material that is relevant  to 
my thinking  here.
Mr T had left the relevant employment, and became self-employed. So he was unable to 
continue paying  into this OPS; there was no alternative OPS. Having seen everything 
provided, it appears to me, there had been some  enquiries proceeding for some time about 
the OPS benefits,  prior to the time of the advice. I dont  consider this was a rushed process.
Overall I think  there was reasonable potential for Mr T to be better  off on transfer here, given 
the circumstances and general thinking at the time,  such as to make the advice suitable.  
There was a sufficiently  extended period prior to retirement in which  to build up more 
pension benefits;  so the transfer of benefits representing a limited  period of service, was 
very much part of a wider  picture in relation  to Mr Ts retirement planning. 
Ref: DRN12589074For completeness and in the context of references to the pension  review, I have seen that it 
appears Mr T had previously been  advised by Marchant McKechnie on an earlier transfer of 
OPS benefits in 1993. These fell to be considered  under the pension review.
Ive seen the suggestion made by Marchant  McKechnie that Mr Ts invitation to have this 
earlier advice reviewed, along with a purported letter from Mr T in 1999  stating  he was 
content with the advice,  ought to indicate not only his contentment, but also demonstrate  
experience and knowledge.  I dont  consider  this material does reasonably support such  
submission.
In October  1994, the then regulator established an industry-wide  review of particular pension  
business carried out by authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994 (so the 
transfer complained  of here, fell just outside  the review). This wasnt a complaints process, 
and consumers were  invited to have a review; the intention was to avoid consumers needing  
to bring complaints because of the number of potential cases  affected.
Ive seen it has also been said that we have upheld complaints made  about  transfers  around 
the same  time. I hope it will be understood that we look at each case on its own specific  
facts when considering  whether someone was unsuitably advised in this way.
Final decision
So for the reasons given, I dont uphold  Mr Ts complaint against  Marchant  McKechnie  
Independent Financial Advisers Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1258907