K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for insurance  
intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz), 
has accepted  the seller  was acting as its agent at the time  so it has accepted  responsibility  
for the sale. To keep things simple,  Ill only refer to Allianz in this decision,  rather than any 
other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs B bought the policy in 1997  at the same time as taking a charge card.  Shes told us she 
cant recall how the PPI was sold  and, due to the time that has passed, it isnt clear exactly 
where or how she completed and submitted her application to apply for the card and PPI.
Mrs B was employed at the time in a role in shipping and had been  there  at least  six years. 
Shes told us she was entitled  to redundancy pay and full sick pay of less than three months  
full pay. Shes also told us she had accident and sickness  insurance  on a monthly basis and 
savings worth at least three  but less than six months  pay with which to pay her card if she 
couldnt work. From what Mrs B has told us, she was treated for a health  issue  shortly  after 
the sale and missed two weeks  work but hadnt  had treatment for any health issues before 
the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment, and life cover,  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful disability or unemployment claim it offered 
to pay each month 15% of Mrs Bs card balance. The life cover, subject  to its terms, would 
pay off the balance on death. The PPI premium at the time cost 64p per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding balance. It attracted interest  and had to still be paid during a successful claim.
Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Bs representative says:
Allianz failed to meet the sales standards  which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs B wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Bs representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Allianz  should  have  told Mrs B about 
the poor value;  
Ref: DRN11297162The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Allianz should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs B and the impact they would 
have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not Allianz. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN11297163The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
So Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mrs Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Allianz was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Allianz gave advice, whether it advised Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Allianz gave  Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs B suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN11297164Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs B and 
Allianz, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs B know she had a choice?
Allianz had to make it clear the PPI was optional. The application form Mrs B signed to take 
the card, had a separate section for the PPI with a box to tick if the PPI was wanted. To take 
the PPI, details of the person to be insured also had to be written  in there. On Mrs Bs form 
the PPI box is ticked and her details  are written in  and theres  nothing  on the form to say 
the PPI had to be taken  or that the form had to be completed in this way.
So although  shes  said she had no interest in PPI and shes said it was just included  with her 
card as part of the package, taking everything into account I think  its more  likely Mrs B knew  
the PPI policy  was optional and agreed  to take it without  undue  pressure.
did Allianz provide  advice?
Both Allianz  and Mrs B agree advice wasnt provided during this sale.  This means Allianz  
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs B. Instead,  it had to give her sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs B to make an informed choice about 
whether to take the policy, including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair 
and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
the information
Allianz has provided us with Mrs Bs credit agreement  showing PPI had been  selected. Ive 
also seen policy terms and conditions  which  I accept - on a balance  of probabilities - applied 
to policies like Mrs Bs. 
Looking at the information provided to Mrs B at the time,  I dont think Allianz gave  Mrs B the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take the policy. 
I can see the card application form described the PPI policy as providing cover  for the card 
payments against  accident, death, unemployment  or sickness. It also informed Mrs B that 
the premium rate was 64p per £100  of the outstanding balance.
The information provided would have given Mrs B a broad sense of what the policy covered. 
But it was Allianzs  responsibility to draw to Mrs Bs attention  the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded Allianz did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mrs B, including the need to maintain premiums during a claim  
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Allianz adequately 
drew to her attention  the main  provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think Allianz gave Mrs B sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, including drawing to her 
Ref: DRN11297165attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Bs. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Bs representative considers  to be poor  value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs B has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
impose such requirements on Allianz.  
what effect did Allianzs shortcomings have on Mrs B? To what extent did Mrs B 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
I have found that Allianz did not do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Mrs B. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs B 
would have still taken  the policy, had Allianz  done things properly. 
Mrs B says she would  not have  taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs B had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs B chose to take this policy. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs B thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs B has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs B ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Allianz  didnt  make clear the on-going cost information. So while  Mrs B 
Ref: DRN11297166didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs B thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  for which  Mrs B was treated in the 
12 months before she applied for the policy; and
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs B wasnt  
a permanent employee.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs B pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy was not as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs B from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  she wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs B was in permanent  employment and, from 
what shes told us, hadnt had a health  issue treated  in the 12 months before she applied.  
So, I think she still had some good reasons to take the policy.
To claim  for disability, Mrs B had to be unable  to do her normal paid work  and I dont think 
this is likely to have  been different to what she wouldve expected.  The policy  didnt exclude 
back or mental health conditions or place  additional restrictions  or more onerous evidential  
requirements in the event  of a claim on those grounds than wouldve applied  to any other  
disability claim. And I think  it unlikely  Mrs B wouldve expected to make a disability claim on 
the policy without  first providing some evidence to support  that claim.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs B wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close  to what  she thought  she was 
getting, and Im not persuaded  she wouldnt have still thought it could provide a useful 
benefit at a difficult time, notwithstanding her work benefits and other  means. And, in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not she wouldve taken the policy in any event.  
Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
Ref: DRN11297167should be presumed Mrs B would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs B in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not she would still have taken the PPI had 
she been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she was buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Allianz should pay Mrs B compensation,  as that would put her in a better position than she 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mrs B thinks  Allianz misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Allianzs statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Allianz failed  
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Allianz gave Mrs B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1997 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Allianz negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mrs B and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Allianz  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 November  2020.
Ref: DRN11297168Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1129716