K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim on his commercial 
motor insurance policy.
In bringing his complaint Mr Js occasionally been  helped by his wife. But for ease Ill refer to 
her comments as being those of Mr J.
Reference to Aviva  includes its agents.
background
Mr J has a commercial  policy that covers other people  to drive his car while  hes present. On 
one such occasion  when Mr J was in the passenger  seat and someone else - who Ill call 
Mr C - was driving, the car was involved in an accident. Mr J said the accident wasn't Mr Cs 
fault but was caused by the driver  of the other car (the third party).
Aviva paid for repairs to Mr Js car although Mr J had to pay his excess.  And initially Aviva 
held the third party to blame for the accident. But the third party blamed Mr C for it. 
Eventually Aviva settled the third partys claim against Mr Js policy. That meant  Mr J 
couldn't reclaim  his excess from the third partys insurer and the claim has affected his no 
claims discount (NCD) and future premiums.
Mr J didnt think that was fair and complained.  Aviva  agreed that not everything had gone 
smoothly and offered  Mr J £300  compensation. Mr J didn't think that went far enough and 
brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 July 2020. For ease I've copied  my provisional findings 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  I won't uphold  it. 
Mr J is very unhappy that Aviva agreed to settle the third partys claim against  his policy.  I 
should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, as 
ultimately thats a matter  for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Js policy  allows Aviva 
to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt  require Mr Js consent to decide how to 
settle a claim and it may make a decision that he doesnt agree with. But where that 
happens well look to see that Aviva has handled  the matter  fairly.
Mr J is sure that Mr C wasn't at fault for the accident. In contrast  the third party said that 
Mr C was to blame. A witness agreed the third party was to blame. And in those 
circumstances I can understand why Mr J is so upset  that Aviva  agreed to settle the claim 
holding Mr C at fault. So I've looked  into how Aviva arrived at that decision  very carefully.
The third party instructed a solicitor  to make a personal injury claim against Mr C. But as he 
was driving Mr Js car - which  Aviva insured - that means that Aviva would be responsible for 
paying any such successful claim.  The third partys  solicitors sent requests for Mr Cs details  
to Aviva.  Aviva didn't  initially respond to those requests.  And when it did it provided  the 
wrong information: giving Mr Cs name but incorrectly  saying that he lived at Mr J's address. 
And I can't see that Aviva  responded to the other drivers solicitors request  for clarification 
on this point.
Ref: DRN15057862Also, Mr J pointed out the third party had given  Mr J a different name  immediately following 
the accident to the name of the third party  making  the personal injury  claim. But I can't  see 
any evidence that Aviva ever investigated this.
The third partys solicitors issued court proceedings naming Mr C as the respondent to the 
claim. But as Aviva  had given the third partys  solicitors the wrong  postal address for Mr C, 
the details of the court proceedings  were  sent to Mr Js address and not Mr Cs. And, initially 
at least because that correspondence  wasnt addressed  to Mr J he understandably didn't  
read it or respond to it. So Aviva wasn't aware of the proceedings and didn't take any action 
to defend the initial claim. As a result the court gave a default judgement - which  is a 
judgement that hadn't been contested - finding Mr C to blame  for the accident.  At that point  
Mr J opened some post from the court  addressed  to Mr C and learned of the court  action. 
Aviva found  out about that action  some weeks later and passed  matters to its solicitors  to try 
to defend the claim.
At that point Avivas  solicitors considered applying to the court  to have  the default judgement 
set aside, which would have meant  that the judgement wasn't enforceable and Aviva could 
have defended the claim. But after contacting Mr C, Avivas solicitors decided not to do so 
because Mr C told them that he didn't want to give evidence in court.  So Avivas solicitors 
felt they couldn't defend  the claim and decided  to pay it.
I can understand why Mr J would find that unfair.  He has no control  over Mr Cs actions yet 
its his policy  and claims history that is affected by the claim. And Mr J was prepared to give 
evidence that Mr C wasn't to blame,  as was an independent  witness. So I do understand 
why Mr J would want Aviva  to defend the claim. But that doesn't  mean that Aviva,  as guided 
by its solicitors, did anything wrong.
Mr C made  it clear  he didn't want to be involved in any court  process. And it appears Avivas 
solicitors were concerned  that in a situation like this, where  there are different versions of 
events, its the actions of the drivers  themselves  that the court needs to make  a judgement 
on. And in those  circumstances  Avivas solicitors believed that a court  would give more 
weight to the evidence of the drivers themselves rather than any witnesses. And as Mr C 
wasn't prepared  to give evidence, but the third party  was, its clear Aviva's solicitors  felt the 
court was likely to find in the third partys  favour.  So they felt they had little prospect of 
successfully defending the claim.
Avivas solicitors have expertise in such matters and I don't think they would recommend 
settling a claim in the third partys favour where  they thought they had reasonable prospects 
of defending it. That's because to do so meant that Aviva would lose any prospect of 
recovering what theyd already paid to settle  the claim,  as well as the third partys  costs. So 
while I have a great deal of sympathy  with Mr Js position, I don't think Aviva's decision to 
settle the claim was unreasonable  because  it was based on legal advice. That means that 
I'm not going to direct  it to take any further action in terms  of how the claim is recorded or the 
effect thats had on Mr Js NCD or claims history.
That said Im aware that Aviva's handling of this claim  could  have been  far better. But given 
Mr C didn't want to give evidence in court its likely that the eventual outcome,  that the claim 
was settled in the third partys favour,  would most  likely have been the same if things had 
gone smoothly. And I note that Aviva offered Mr J £300 compensation in recognition  of the 
impact of its mistakes in handling this claim,  and I think thats a reasonable sum in the 
Ref: DRN15057863circumstances. Thats because that amount is similar to awards we would make in cases of 
similar seriousness. So I'm not going  to instruct it to take any further action.
developments
Mr J didn't agree with my provisional decision.  He said Aviva  had admitted its failings and 
that it had said liability lay with the third party. He said that solicitors also agreed that liability  
lay with the third party. He added that when he sent the summons  - addressed to Mr C - to 
solicitors they claimed not to have received it and said they were under the impression that it 
was them,  acting on Mr Js behalf, that were issuing  proceedings against the third party 
rather than the other  way around.
Mr J also said our adjudicator had found  in his favour and that it wasn't right that I had 
overturned that.
Aviva didn't  have any further comments to make.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr Js made  several references to the actions of 
solicitors. For example, hes referred  to solicitors telling him that they were issuing 
proceedings on his behalf  and of forwarding the initial court  summons  to those solicitors. But 
I don't think the solicitors  Mr J is referring to were  acting  on Avivas instruction.
It might help if I explain that Mr J initially reported  the claim to his brokers. As well as telling 
Aviva about  the claim the brokers also referred Mr J to claims handlers to deal with a claim 
for any losses Mr J might  have had that weren't covered by his motor  policy  with Aviva 
(known as uninsured losses). Such losses may have included  things like his excess and any 
lost earnings while  his car was off the road.  And it appears that the claims handlers Mr Js 
broker referred him to also involved solicitors  acting for Mr J in a claim for those uninsured 
losses. But that was a different set of solicitors  to the solicitors instructed by Aviva who later 
considered defending the claim on Mr Js behalf.
And none of those parties involved in the claim for uninsured losses  were  acting for Aviva.  
As I've said above Mr Js motor policy doesn't cover costs for things like his excess  or any 
other out of pocket  expenses. So, it seems  that the brokers referred Mr J to claims handlers 
under the provisions of a separate legal expenses  policy that Aviva  isn't responsible for. And 
any action taken in progressing Mr Js claim for uninsured  losses weren't taken on Avivas  
behalf. And when  Mr J has referred  to solicitors telling him that they were issuing 
proceedings on his behalf  and not receiving  the initial court  summons  the solicitors hes 
referred to werent  acting  for Aviva. Instead  they were acting for Mr J in respect  of his 
separate claim for uninsured losses. So, Aviva  isn't responsible for the actions of the broker,  
the claims handler for his uninsured losses or the initial solicitors those claims handlers  
referred Mr J to. So, any complaints Mr J has about their handling  of the claim for Mr Js 
uninsured losses  isn't for Aviva to address.
Indeed, Aviva only involved their own solicitors  fairly  late in proceedings after it learned  that 
the third partys solicitors  had issued proceedings and already received  a default judgment. 
Ref: DRN15057864At that point Aviva instructed solicitors who considered whether or not they had reasonable 
prospects of being  able to defend the claim. But as Mr C wasn't willing  to cooperate  and give 
evidence in court Avivas  solicitors concluded that they had no real prospect of being  able to 
defend the claim  and so decided to settle it. And given that was the opinion of the legal 
experts I think  that decision was reasonable. 
Aviva has previously acknowledged that it had made  mistakes  in the handling of the claim. 
And it offered Mr J £300  compensation  to address the impact of its mistakes.  But as I said in 
my provisional decision it seems likely that, even  without Avivas mistakes,  given that Mr C 
didn't want  to cooperate with the court process, the outcome in terms of liability would have 
been the same.
I understand Mr Js disappointment  that Im not upholding his complaint, especially as our 
adjudicator had recommended a different outcome. But we operate  a two-stage process. 
That is if either party - Mr J or Aviva  - was unhappy  with our adjudicators decision they could 
appeal it to an ombudsman. And thats what happened in this case.  And, in every  case  I look 
at I consider all the evidence independently.  I then come to my own conclusions  about what I 
consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome. And its not unusual or uncommon  for an 
ombudsmans decision to be different to an adjudicators, which  is the case  here.
Im aware that Mr J feels  like hes being  punished for actions beyond  his control. But his 
policy is specifically designed to allow other  drivers to drive  his car under the cover his policy  
provides. And that means there is always going  to be the possibility that the actions of a 
driver on Mr Js policy can affect Mr Js insurance history because  he is the policyholder. 
Thats simply the nature of the policy he holds. It doesnt mean  that Aviva is treating him 
unfairly because  it didnt think it could realistically defend the third partys claim even though 
Mr J couldnt influence  Mr Cs decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1505786