K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained Tesco Personal  Finance Plc, trading as Tesco Bank, is holding him 
liable for a personal loan when he never applied for it.
background
In November 2018 Mr H got a letter from Tesco Bank saying theyd not been able to contact 
him about his credit  card. 
Mr H contacted them and complained hed never  taken out this card.  He also discovered  
Tesco Bank believed  hed taken out a personal loan for £29,000 in July 2018.  He told them  
hed not taken this out. Initially Tesco Bank  wrote  to Mr H on 10 January 2019 saying they 
didnt believe hed taken  out the loan
However they got back in touch with him in February  2019 to say this wasnt correct.  
Tesco Bank believed  Mr H had applied for the personal loan. They  were  aware  of a credit 
card during  the same period taken out by Mr H (which  is the subject of another  complaint 
with this service).  They  believed the personal loan had been paid into Mr Hs current  account 
(with a bank  Ill call S). They thought  Mr H knew what had been  going on. 
Mr H brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He told us hed responded to an 
email earlier  in the year and provided  bank and personal details in response to what he now 
thought was a scam,
After a detailed  review of what  had gone  on, two investigators told Mr H they felt hed either 
applied for the loan or knew who had done  so. The money had credited his account with S. 
Two transfers had then been made the following day on 12 July using all of Mr Hs verified 
account details  with S.
Mr H said hes never applied  for this loan.  Around  the same  time there  were  other  attempts 
to take out fraudulent loans in his name.  Mr H has asked an ombudsman  to consider his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our investigator.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered Mr Hs detailed  letters  to Tesco  Bank from 
November 2018  and his credit report.  Ive also reviewed evidence  from Tesco  Bank 
including the original loan application,  along with details of phone conversations.  Weve also 
got evidence from Mr Hs main bank (who Ill call S) showing  his online and mobile banking 
usage.
Ive considered the following issues:
The application for this personal loan was made by post. A paper application was 
completed, signed and returned to Tesco  Bank. A few days later the loan was 
approved. There were two letters from Tesco Bank  to Mr H in short succession. This 
Ref: DRN12857882suggests that if this application wasnt made  by Mr H, then whoever had was sure 
they had access  to Mr Hs post.  
They were also able to monitor his post regularly  so I think theres no likelihood  this 
application was made by an unknown  fraudster.
The signature on the loan application  doesnt resemble Mr Hs signature on his 
passport or other documents. However it has the distinct look of someone trying not 
to sign like Mr H.
The loan of £29,000 credited Mr Hs account  with S on 11 July 2018. Two transfers of 
£14,500 were made the day after. If this was fraud, Id have expected payments to be 
made the day the funds were received to minimise  the chance  of Mr H noticing the 
balance in his account and alerting someone  to this.
Detailed information from S shows Mr Hs mobile  and online banking  logins 
throughout 2018 before  and after the loan money was received  into his account.  
Mr H said he didnt use mobile or online banking that frequently.  The reports  from S 
dont really back that statement up. The IP addresses used for the transactions on 
12 July match addresses used  previously by Mr H when  carrying out online banking.
Online and mobile banking had been set up many years  before. The mobile phone 
number used is the same as the one we have for Mr H.
Before the two payments are made on 12 July, a new payee  is set up online. This 
means that S then sent Mr H a one-time passcode. This passcode was used to verify 
the transactions. Mr H hasnt  explained  how someone else could have accessed his 
phone to find out the passcode.
Im aware hes told us that he got a call from someone saying they were  from S, who 
asked him to share the passcode and delete  the messages. This would suggest  an 
unknown fraudster.  I dont believe this story  matches  the other evidence.
There is also a payment made to Tesco Bank  for repayment of the loan in 
October 2018 from Mr Hs account with S. Mr H doesnt pay that close attention to his 
account because  he knows  what use he makes of his account:  generally just cash  
withdrawals. His online banking records dont tell the same story.
Mr H has said there  were other  loans opened in his name fraudulently.  I cant see 
this to be the case. According to Mr Hs credit record there were definitely a number 
of searches against his name  in mid-2018 with a variety of different companies. I 
cant see this resulted in any other loans being successful however.
Ive considered Mr Hs point that he was the victim  of a phishing  scam earlier in 2018. 
However what occurs  both the credit card and loan applications  dont follow what  Id 
expect to see if this was how Mr Hs details were compromised. With those details its 
certainly true someone could open  accounts in Mr Hs name but the risk I see here is that 
lots of correspondence was sent to Mr Hs home  address.
A fraudster  whos harvested details online through a phishing scam wouldnt know  Mr Hs 
postal  or in fact personal  arrangements. They wouldnt have known that coincidentally 
Mr H had a post box which  could have been  compromised  or that he didnt check  his post 
that frequently.
Mr H has disputed he made  the payments from his account with S. But I cant  see thats the 
case. That means even if Mr H didnt make  the loan application, he did spend the money 
received into his bank  account.
A possible scenario  is that Mr H was persuaded by friends or acquaintances  to allow  his 
details to be used.  He may not even have  known exactly what that use would entail. 
Ref: DRN12857883However the key aspect  to this is that would mean  that Mr H had allowed someone else to 
his bank account to make the transactions on 12 July.
Overall I believe Mr H made or authorised the personal loan application with Tesco  Bank 
and the subsequent payments.
Its quite clear, however,  that Mr H has been  left in a difficult financial position. Tesco Bank 
will need  to assess what repayments  Mr H can afford.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against 
Tesco Personal Finance Plc, trading as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1285788