K821x#15complaint
B, a firm of solicitors, has complained on behalf of Mr S about  the settlement offered by AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to replace items  of furniture following  a claim for an escape of water under 
Mr Ss home insurance policy.
background
Mr S made a claim to AXA after a water leak caused damage to his home.  AXA made a 
settlement in respect of the building repairs and some of the contents.
It appointed a specialist restoration  company  to advise on Mr Ss contents.  Based on that 
companys assessment AXA offered  over £5,000 for certain furniture items  that were  beyond 
repair. It said that was based  on the restoration companys lowest  valuation. AXA said Mr S 
could forward estimates  from his preferred suppliers if he wished to challenge any of the 
valuations.
Part of this settlement included £3,180 to replace a piano, piano  stool and music cabinet. 
Mr S produced a valuation and evidence that it would cost him £26,064  to replace them.  So 
AXA revised its offer and paid Mr S that amount plus delivery  costs.
Originally AXA had offered  Mr S £900  to replace a bamboo sofa and armchairs. Mr S 
produced evidence that the cost of a replacement from an overseas  supplier  was 
considerably more than AXA had estimated. Again AXA revised its offer and said it would 
pay £4,292.32  based on the sterling equivalent  of the online price. Mr S then found these 
items from a UK retailer and said he would accept £5,500 for them  based  on the cost of 
buying similar items in the UK. AXA said Mr Ss revised quotes werent for the same furniture 
and didnt increase its offer of £4,292.32.
AXA also didnt agree to increase its offer for the remaining items which had been valued at 
£1,260. It said there was no evidence to support Mr Ss valuations  and in the absence of this 
it was relying on the valuations  submitted by the restoration company. Mr S didnt agree. He 
thought AXA should pay him £8,500  for these items.
In summary  Mr S wanted £14,000  to settle  the claim for the outstanding contents  and AXA 
was prepared to pay £5,552.32.
After reviewing Mr Ss complaint AXA paid him £500 compensation for delays in handling the 
claim.
B brought  Mr Ss complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
was minded to uphold  the complaint. 
I explained that Mr Ss policy sets out how AXA will deal with claims. It says:
1) If you claim for loss or damage to the contents the insurer will repair, replace or pay for 
any article covered under section 2. For total loss or destruction of any article the insurer 
will pay you the cost of replacing the article as new, as long as:
- The new article is as close as possible to but not an improvement on the original article 
when it was new; and
- You have paid or the insurer has authorised the cost of replacement.
Ref: DRN12498442With regard to the bamboo sofa and armchairs  Mr S provided a quote for a replacement  
which AXA accepted. It offered  to pay £4,292 32 which  was the sterling equivalent at the 
time. Mr S asked  AXA to increase the settlement based on a quote from another retailer.  
Having compared  this furniture with photos of the damaged furniture, I thought  it was 
reasonable of AXA to say that the second  quote  was based on furniture which  was better  
than Mr S had originally. Mr S isnt entitled to better  quality furniture under his policy 
wording. So I didnt think AXA had treated Mr S unfairly in respect of these items.
With regard to AXAs offer of £1,260  for the remaining items, I wasnt  persuaded that was 
reasonable. Thats because AXA had already accepted in respect of several  items a 
settlement amount that exceeded its original offer by a considerable amount (both in 
percentage and real terms). Since its specialist had been shown to have grossly 
underestimated the value  of these items, I thought  it would have been reasonable at that 
stage for it to have  double  checked the valuations of the remaining items. So I felt in order to 
treat Mr S fairly AXA should  reconsider its settlement  offer.
After our investigator issued his view, B provided evidence showing that the replacement 
value of the remaining items was over £3,000. When making a decision on a complaint I 
usually consider matters  as they stood at the time the financial business  issued its final 
response to the complaint (which is when  it told the consumer they could  bring their 
complaint to us). However,  occasionally it seems  sensible not to do so  for example 
because further  evidence has been  provided.  I felt that was the case  here.
So I provisionally said that AXA should reassess its settlement offer for the remaining items 
taking into account  the most recent  evidence  from B.
In response AXA agreed  to reassess  its settlement offer. B didnt comment on my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any objection to my provisional findings, I see no reason to change 
them and they now form part of the findings  of this decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to reassess its offer of 
£1,260 in settlement of the outstanding  contents  claim, taking into account the most recent 
evidence provided  on behalf of Mr S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1249844