K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about his home contents  insurer Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc
(RSA) because it has declined his claim made  for a stolen watch.
background
In September  2016  Mr C was wearing  his watch whilst on a holiday abroad with his friends.  
On the first night away Mr C realised his watch was missing. He spoke to his insurance 
broker and a police motorcyclist (who didnt record the crime).
In January 2017 Mr Cs broker  notified RSA of the claim. RSA registered it as an accidental 
loss and a loss adjuster visited Mr C to take some more details. Following that meeting the 
loss adjuster wrote to Mr Cs broker declining the claim.  The loss adjuster noted  that Mr C 
hadnt been sure how the watch was lost or what the circumstances were immediately prior 
to him noticing  the watch  was gone.  It was also noted that Mr C hadnt had the watch  
maintained as required by the policy. The loss adjuster felt the lack of maintenance was 
likely material to the watch having  been  lost and said the claim was being  declined.
The broker  responded to the adjuster and pointed out that Mr C had said that just prior to 
noticing the watch was missing  hed felt like hed been drugged. As such it was felt the 
watch may well have  been stolen and it was the loss adjuster who was assuming it had 
been lost. The loss adjuster said any further  evidence or information Mr C had regarding 
theft would be considered.
Over the next month  the loss adjuster asked the broker  for updates. In April 2017, having  
received no further  evidence,  the loss adjuster wrote to Mr C and declined the claim on the 
basis of the breach of the condition to maintain the watch.
In July 2017 a loss assessor, Mr J, acting on behalf  of Mr C, contacted the loss adjuster. He 
provided some witness statements from Mr C and his friends. He noted that taking these  
into account the watch had most likely been  stolen and that the breach of the maintenance 
condition was, therefore, not material to the loss. He asked RSA to review  matters.
RSA said it felt nothing  had changed.  It issued a final response to Mr C which  referred to 
the policy condition  that required Mr C to maintain the watch  but also to the following 
condition:
If you lose something  away  from your home,  tell the police immediately upon  discovery  
and ask for a crime reference  number  or loss number  and tell us as soon as you can.
Mr J felt this was unfair.  He said RSA hadnt fully considered the statements provided. He 
said it had declined the claim on the basis of evidence it had all along. Mr J said if RSA had 
wanted to decline on the basis Mr C hadnt told the police it should  have  done  so before; it 
hadnt taken that chance though so it wasnt  fair or reasonable  for it to do so now.
Our investigator thought  that as Mr C had only spoken to a police motorcyclist and hadnt  
obtained a crime  reference number, RSAs  decline was fair and reasonable. He also noted 
that RSA believed  it was more likely the watch had been lost. He said that in that 
circumstance RSAs  reliance on the breach of the policy condition regarding  maintaining  the 
watch was fair and reasonable too.
Ref: DRN18907342Mr J said the investigator hadnt  taken  into account his argument  that RSA had waived the 
right to rely on the condition regarding reporting the claim to the police. He said in terms of 
a theft claim  Mr C only had to show, on the face of it, it was most likely that a theft had 
occurred, and the witness statements achieved that. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. I felt RSA had misled  Mr C but 
I didnt think it should have to pay the claim.  I issued  a provisional decision to explain this 
and what I felt it should do.
my provisional findings
Im not going  to go into the arguments about  accidental loss and the breach of the 
maintenance condition. The situation has moved  on and Mr C is adamant  the watch was 
stolen so that is where my focus falls.
After Mr C noticed the watch was gone he didnt call the police. When Mr C saw a police 
motorcyclist the next day he spoke to him but the policeman reportedly was uninterested. 
The alleged crime wasnt recorded which meant no crime  reference number was obtained. 
Mr C called his broker but not RSA. And the broker, acting on Mr Cs behalf  to notify  RSA of 
the claim,  didnt do that until some four months after the loss. So I think its fair to say that 
Mr C didnt comply  with the policy condition set out above.
Failing to comply with a policy condition though doesnt necessarily mean  a claim can fairly 
be declined. Often  this service will say that a breach  has to be material  to the loss or claim 
in some way. When the condition in question relates to reporting  the matter  to the police its 
relevance is really to do with the chance  of recovering the item. But it also has relevance in 
terms of assisting an insurer with verifying the claim. I think  the fact that Mr C didnt report  
the matter properly here has likely  prejudiced RSA on both counts. The late notification  to 
RSA hasnt made the recovery prospects  or verification task any easier for it either. So I 
think Mr Cs breach of the condition was material in the circumstances  here. Therefore, I 
think RSAs decline was fair and reasonable.
However, it is clear to me that RSA was aware of Mr Cs view that the watch may have 
been stolen before its loss adjuster declined the claim on the basis  of the maintenance 
condition. It seems the broker,  having  been told by the adjuster of the decline,  and having 
disagreed with it, contacted RSA directly  to try and mediate the situation.
As part of that process RSAs technical consultant considered the claim from the point of 
view of a theft. He felt that if the watch had been stolen Mr C had failed to comply with the 
condition requiring him to notify it of the loss and obtain a crime reference  number. So he 
thought the claim  should still be declined. Unfortunately this view wasnt properly shared 
with the loss adjuster. This meant  the loss adjuster didnt  communicate RSAs view on the 
theft element  of the claim to Mr C. Instead  the loss adjuster asked Mr C to provide further
evidence in support  of his suggestion that the watch  had been stolen.
As a result  of the loss adjusters request for further  evidence Mr C appointed Mr J. 
However, its clear to me that this action was entirely futile as, given what was already 
known about the crime not being reported, it was never going  to result in the claim being 
reconsidered. Even if Mr C could have found an independent witness  who had seen him 
being robbed, the obstacle  in the form of the breached policy condition could never have 
been overcome.  If RSA had dealt with this properly then the efforts  Mr C went to in order  to 
try and show the watch had been  stolen could  have been avoided.
Ref: DRN18907343This isnt a situation  though where  RSA can fairly be said to have waived its right to rely on 
that argument. It didnt,  for example,  accept  the claim knowing there was a bar to its liability  
only to try and rely on that bar later to defeat  the claim. Saying it would consider things isnt 
the same  as acceptance.  Rather RSAs position  was always that the policy  wouldnt 
respond  it just didnt  clearly communicate  its reasons in that respect to Mr C.
So, whilst  Im satisfied that RSA has no liability for replacing Mr Cs watch, I am going  to 
make it reimburse any costs (plus interest*) Mr C has incurred as a result of it misleading 
him into thinking his claim could  be reconsidered.  If Mr C provides proof  in response to this 
provisional decision Ill consider that before  making  a final decision setting out what  I think  
RSA should pay.
I think  Mr C likely suffered some distress  and inconvenience too. He found and instructed 
the loss assessor, provided  a witness statement and was disappointed when none of that 
changed anything. All of that could have been avoided if RSA hadnt misled him. I think  it 
should pay Mr C £150 compensation.
responses to my provisional  decision
RSA accepted my decision. Mr C, via his representative Mr J, didnt.
Mr J said that it was a bit late, and therefore unfair, for RSA to have raised an argument of 
a miscommunication having occurred. He said it had never  said this before. Mr J said that, 
in any event, this was clearly a case of waiver, that the links between RSA and the loss 
adjuster were such that RSA was responsible for its error. And the error  Mr C not being 
told about RSAs  position in respect  of any theft that may have occurred  had caused Mr C 
financial detriment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt the case that RSA has pleaded to us that a mistake was made  or a 
miscommunication occurred. Rather that is what Ive deduced from its files. And that 
mistake was RSAs. It isnt clear exactly why the miscommunication occurred but the 
failure to properly communicate  the reasons for decline to Mr C at the earliest opportunity 
was RSAs, regardless of whether  its systems  or the loss adjusters were the cause of that. 
But Im still not convinced this is a case  where  I could fairly  say the error meant RSA 
waived the right to rely later on that reason for decline. As I said provisionally  my view 
would be different it RSA had accepted  the claim whilst knowing there was a bar to it 
which it chose to try and use later. 
I accept that Mr C was caused detriment as a result of the error. He certainly was caused 
distress and inconvenience which could otherwise have been avoided.  He might also have 
had costs for the work  undertaken  by Mr J (although no evidence  of these have been 
presented). So the fair and reasonable redress for that is compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  and a reimbursement of the costs he had. 
Ref: DRN18907344RSA misled Mr C. It failed  to properly manage  his expectations because it handled the 
claim poorly.  I appreciate  that this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, because  I know 
the watch was important to him. However, Im satisfied that, for the reasons set out above,  
including the provisional findings  which now form part of this decision, making RSA pay 
the claim would  be an unfair and unreasonable outcome. I remain  of the view that the fair 
and reasonable remedy  for the error RSA made is for Mr C to receive  reimbursement of 
any costs he incurred  and compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience he 
was caused. 
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint in part. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Reimburse any costs Mr C had in appointing the loss assessor, plus interest* from the 
date any related bills were paid by Mr C until settlement  is made.
Pay Mr C £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts specified  and from/to  the dates stated. If Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from any interest  due to 
Mr C, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1890734