K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that MBNA  Limited  declined his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in relation to the misrepresentation of a used car.
background
In January 2019 Mr L bought a second hand Jaguar  car in an online auction.  He paid about 
£2,000 (in euros)  with his MBNA  credit  card. The car was in another  country. When he went  
to collect the car a few days later, it was in much  worse condition than he was expecting, 
including widespread corrosion. He had expected  the car to be in need of some restoration 
work, but not so much as to make it uneconomical to try  which  in his opinion,  it was. So he 
decided not to collect the car after all. The supplier wouldnt  give him a refund, but agreed to 
resell the car and give him the proceeds (minus the expenses associated  with the sale). The 
car was eventually resold for about a third of what hed paid for it, and he received less than 
£500 of that.
Mr L believed that the advertisement for the car was so inaccurate in its description of the 
cars condition that it amounted to a misrepresentation. So he asked MBNA for 
compensation under section 75. He asked to be refunded  what  he had paid for the car (he 
later deducted what he received  when it was resold), plus his travel expenses  and other  
incidental expenses, which came to another  £1,200.
MBNA did not agree that the advert was misleading,  so Mr L brought this complaint  to our 
Service. But our investigator  also thought  that the advert was fair, especially  when  photos  
and a YouTube video  showing the car were  taken into consideration. Mr L did not agree, and 
requested an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This complaint is about how MBNA dealt 
with Mr Ls section 75 claim, and whether MBNA was entitled  to decline his claim.
The advert describes  the car as follows:
Vehicle has been stored for a long time in all weathers. Corrosion. Beautiful  red 
leather interior.  Would have  been used until 1995 according to sticker affixed  to the 
windshield. Without a [vehicle registration card].
Mr L insists that the mere  word corrosion does not adequately convey the extent of the 
corrosion he discovered  when he inspected the car. He describes lifting the carpets and 
discovering that the floor was so rusty he could put his foot through  it. He provided examples 
of the sellers adverts for other cars which refer to significant corrosion  by way of 
comparison. He also says there were missing engine components, and the doors  wouldnt 
close.
Mr L did not take photos of the car when he inspected it, and consequently he was unable  to 
show MBNA any evidence of the condition the car was in. MBNA only saw the photos the 
seller published  with the advert, and the sellers video. So that is all that MBNA  and my 
colleague and I  have to go on.
Ref: DRN16883392The video makes  entertaining viewing.  It is three  minutes long, and consists  of numerous 
shots of various  cars that the seller is offering for sale. Some of the cars are kept outdoors;  
these ones have  foliage and moss growing all over them. The other cars, including  the one 
Mr L bought, are kept in a large shed with big holes in the roof. All of the cars are covered in 
filth and dust, and the interiors are the same.  Many  of them have obvious damage and rust. 
None of them have  been looked after.  Most of them do not look roadworthy. My impression 
is that the whole place  resembles a cemetery for old cars, much more  closely than it 
resembles a car dealership.
Even before I take the sellers terms and conditions into account  (which I will come to later),  
I think that the condition of the cars, and the kind of business the seller  is running  as 
clearly evident in the video  are enough to put any potential buyer on notice that any car in 
which he is interested is likely to be defective and in poor condition. And I note, as I said 
earlier, that Mr L bought the car intending  to restore it. This car was not in the condition one 
would expect to find on a garage forecourt.  I accept that the car Mr L chose was in better  
than average condition when compared  with the sellers other cars, but I dont think  that 
means that he was not on notice that the car was still likely  to have significant issues.  If the 
car was in worse condition than hed expected, I dont think that is because  of misleading 
advertising.
I turn back to the wording of the advert. It says the car hasnt been driven since 1995   
24 years  earlier  and has been  stored for a long time in all weathers. It specifically 
mentions corrosion, and the fact that it does not elaborate further does not, in my view,  
amount to a misrepresentation of the facts.  The reader is on notice that corrosion is present; 
the extent of it is a matter  that could have  been  verified by asking  the seller  about it or by 
inspecting the car before  buying  it.
There is also, of course,  the fact that the car cost only £2,000.  For a Jaguar.
The sellers  terms and conditions, which the seller provided to MBNA  on request, say that 
interested parties are invited to examine  the cars before the auction begins. The descriptions 
of the cars cannot  constitute any proof  or guarantee. It then says mention of any defect 
does not imply the absence of any other  defect.  I think  the advert has to be read in this 
context, although  I appreciate  that Mr L says he did not see these  terms when he bought the 
car. Nevertheless, I do not think that MBNAs decision to reject  Mr Ls claim of 
misrepresentation can be faulted.  It was clearly right.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1688339