K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mr and Mrs R payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1991. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mr and Mrs Rs comments.  However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
The PPI was a compulsory part of the mortgage  deal  Nationwide  says this was 
because it was lending the full value  of the property. This doesnt  mean  the PPI was mis-
sold, as long as Nationwide  made  clear  what it was offering  Mr and Mrs R. And I can see 
the offer letter did set out this condition.  So Mr and Mrs R did have the choice to reject  
the overall deal if they wanted,  and look for a different  mortgage.  
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs R as being  particularly suited  to 
their individual needs. This means it didnt have  to check if the PPI fitted  their 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mr and Mrs R to decide whether it was suitable.  
But even  if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in their circumstances at the time.  Not being able to pay a mortgage  can 
cause significant  difficulties, and the PPI would have paid out in addition to any employer 
sickness and redundancy benefits,  and possibly for longer. So it would have been 
potentially useful.  
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy.  But 
I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mr and Mrs R took the PPI.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have been  affected by any of these. Its likely they 
were eligible for the policy, and theyd be paying  for it monthly,  so they could cancel it at 
any time without further cost if their situation  changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN12400392Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1240039