K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford to repay. He asks that it refunds interest and charges and removes 
information about the loans from his credit file.
background
Mr P took out two instalment  loans with Mr Lender, in 2016  and 2018. He says he had a lot 
of loans and a problem with gambling. Mr P says Mr Lender should have made more checks  
before lending to him. Mr P says he agreed a repayment plan for the first loan and, despite 
this, Mr Lender offered  him another loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said the checks 
made by Mr Lender were  proportionate, given the amount of the loan repayments and Mr Ps 
stated income. While there was a default  on Mr Ps credit file this didnt mean  Mr Lender 
couldnt lend if it did appropriate affordability  checks.  There  was a break  of about 10 months  
between Mr P repaying loan 1 and taking out loan 2. The information Mr Lender received 
suggested the loans were  affordable.  
Mr P didnt agree. He said Mr Lender  should have  been aware of a problem due to him not 
being able to maintain repayments for loan 1. And his credit  file would have shown missed 
payments for other loans.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr P took out loan 1, of £500, in November 2016.  The loan was repayable  in six monthly 
instalments starting  at £235 and decreasing to £103.  
Mr P took out loan 2, of £450, in April 2018. The loan was repayable  in six monthly  
instalments starting  at £233 and decreasing to £93. 
Mr Lender says it checked Mr Ps stated  income of £1,700 to £2,000 with his employer. It 
says the information Mr P provided about  his expenditure suggested hed have about £1,000  
left after meeting his outgoings. And he confirmed  he wasnt  using the loan to repay debts or 
for gambling  purposes.  
Mr Lender did a credit check. This was either limited in scope or it provided only a summary 
of the results  to us. This showed no recent  defaults and no bankruptcy,  individual voluntary 
arrangements (IVA) or county court judgements  (CCJ).  
Ive considered what Mr P has said about  his circumstances when he took out the loans. 
Mr P had a default recorded on his credit file in July 2015. This was about 18 months  before 
loan 1, so I dont think Mr Lender would have  known about it (its search  was for defaults 
within the previous  year).  He had some accounts  with late payments,  although  these were  
Ref: DRN12796482mostly settled or up to date when he took out the loans.  But even if Mr Lender knew about  
the default and late payments, it doesnt  mean  it cant lend, provided it carries out the right 
checks and is satisfied  the loan is affordable.  
The account  statement  for loan 1 shows Mr P missed the first repayment  due in December 
2016. He agreed  a repayment plan and made monthly payments of £144 from January to 
June 2017. The loan was repaid in June 2017,  one month after the original due date. I dont 
think the missed payment  means Mr Lender shouldnt  have offered loan 2 to Mr P. Mr P 
maintained the payment arrangement from January to June 2017.  There was about  10 
months between him repaying loan 1 and taking out loan 2. In the circumstances, I dont  
think its unreasonable for Mr Lender to assume that Mr P would have  recovered  from any 
temporary payment  problems by April 2018.
I think, in the circumstances,  the checks made by Mr Lender were proportionate. The 
information Mr Lender received suggested the loans were affordable. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1279648