K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain on behalf  of S (a company) that Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold various  
life polices because:
They were told they had to take out the policies to get the business  loan S needed  
when this wasnt true.
If life cover was a condition of the loan they werent given the opportunity of shopping 
around for a better deal.
It wasnt a legal requirement for them to have life cover and the bank had the right to 
repossess the property  if there was non-payment  of the loan.
background
In 2007 Mr and Mrs W were  advised to take out four policies on behalf of S. They  each took 
out a policy  providing life cover of £250,000 and also a separate life cover and CIC policy  
each for £150,000. So the total amount  of life cover they each had was £400,000 with CIC 
cover of £150,000.  S stopped paying the direct debit for the policies in 2010 and they ended 
at that time. Mr and Mrs W complained to Lloyds in 2018.
Lloyds didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that although the adviser  may have insisted  on S 
having appropriate life insurance  in place as part of the loan arrangement,  there was no 
requirement to take this out through it. It said that cancellation rights were  given  by the 
provider and this provided a cooling off period. It said Mr and Mrs W couldve  used  another  
provider if they wanted. Lloyds also said that they couldve  raised concerns during the period 
they were being  updated  whilst  further medical  information was being  obtained.
Lloyds did offer to refund  the difference in premium between joint polices and the individual  
policies that were recommended as it wasnt Mr and Mrs W needed individual policies.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said that although 
Lloyds had confirmed  it was usual at the time for life cover to be a condition  of a business  
loan Mr and Mrs W had been able to amend the level of cover which would be unusual and 
he also noted that the policies werent  assigned to Lloyds. He thought this could indicate  that 
the policies werent  a condition of the loan. 
But the investigator said if it was a condition  this was a commercial  decision Lloyds was able 
to make and not something that meant it had done something wrong. And he didnt think  that 
because Mr and Mrs W had later managed to change the cover  or cancel it whilst the loan 
continued this necessarily meant it wasnt a condition of the lending.  The investigator also 
didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong  in not referring Mr and Mrs W to another 
provider. He said the adviser was limited to recommending Lloyds products.
The investigator thought Mr and Mrs W shouldve been recommended  joint policies and 
noted Lloyds had accepted this in its response  to the complaint. He thought the offer to pay 
the difference between the premium  for the single policies and a joint policy together  with 
simple interest at 8% each year was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  with the investigator and said they were  forced  into taking out the 
life cover in adverse conditions when they clearly didnt need  it, as they cancelled it. 
my findings
Ref: DRN18009282Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear that my findings and decision are made on a balance of 
probabilities - what is more likely, than not, to have happened  not on what  definitely did or 
didnt happen.
Mr and Mrs W complain they were  told they had to take out the cover  to get a business loan 
for S of £400,000.  There  is nothing wrong  with Lloyds making  it a condition of a loan that life 
cover has to be in place, this is a reasonable commercial decision which it is entitled to take 
and one we wouldnt  interfere with. 
I note Mr and Mrs W have referred to Lloyds being  able to repossess Ss property if loan 
repayments werent made. But that doesnt make it unreasonable for it to insist on life cover 
being in place before it provided the loan. This would  avoid  the need for it to go through  the 
process necessary  to repossess  and then sell the property if one of them died and loan 
repayments stopped. 
Lloyds would only have  done something  wrong  if it wasnt a condition  and Mr and Mrs W had 
been misled into taking out the cover for S on the basis that it was. So the first issue I have 
to decide is whether it was a condition.
There is no evidence from the time of sale of the policies which indicates whether it was or 
wasnt a condition of the loan. Lloyds  has said that it was usual practice at the time to make 
life cover a condition of a business loan and there is nothing to show  that there was some 
reason to depart from this usual practice.  I also note S had only been  incorporated  the 
previous year which I think made it more likely that Lloyds would follow its usual practice.  
Also, in May 2012 in response to an email  from Mr W about  the policies, the relationship 
manager stated:
There were  Scottish  Widows policies in force to cover the debt which  was part of the 
original lending proposal. If you recall (the adviser) subsequently arranged alternative cover  
through the brokers  he used which replaced some  of the cover  with us partly  as a cost 
saving exercise.
I think this suggests  that the policies were a condition  of the loan at the time. 
I accept the evidence isnt entirely clear because the policies werent assigned  to Lloyds as I 
wouldve expected  them to be - so that if Mr W or Mrs W died it could  automatically  receive  
the proceeds of the relevant policies.  I also acknowledge  that Mr and Mrs W were able to 
cancel the policies in 2010 - but Lloyds requirements for there to be life cover for the 
business loan may have  changed by 2010  and the 2012 email suggests the adviser may 
have thought alternative cover had been taken out anyway. 
In the circumstances I think it is more likely than not that life cover was a condition of the 
loan and Lloyds  has done nothing wrong  in selling such cover  to S.
Given I have found life cover was a condition of the loan S had a clear need  for such cover. 
But the adviser still had to make sure that the recommended cover was suitable for that 
need. Im satisfied that the overall level of life cover  was suitable as it matched the loan 
Ref: DRN18009283amount. But there appears to be no reason that cover couldnt have been provided  on a joint 
basis and Lloyds has acknowledged this.
Although I have found life cover was a condition I dont think  CIC was. But Im not satisfied 
that Mr and Mrs W were  told this was a requirement  given  they didnt accept the advisers 
recommendation to have  £400,000 of CIC and reduced this to only £150,000 on affordability 
grounds. In the circumstances I think it will have been clear to them  they didnt need this 
cover to get the loan.
Although I have decided that life cover was a condition of the loan I also think  they had a 
need for such cover and wanted it anyway. So Im not persuaded they wouldnt have taken 
this out on behalf of S even if it wasnt a condition. 
They had only started S the previous year and were  taking on a significant debt. If one of 
them had died or become critically ill it couldve had serious financial consequences  for both 
S and them personally,  given  there  is some reference in the paperwork I have seen to 
guarantees having been given.
Also the most expensive  part of their cover  was the CIC which they didnt accept the 
advisers recommendation  on. The suitability letter stated:
You accepted  that only part of the liability could be repaid in the event of critical illness but 
did not want to overstretch the budget  initially.
Given they dropped  the recommended level of cover by £250,000 I think it is more  likely than 
not they were  aware they couldve  decided  to have no CIC cover  at all but instead chose to 
have a level of cover that was affordable. I think this shows they wanted  the cover  for S and 
chose to have  this.
I have also considered what Mr and Mrs W have  said about not being able to shop around 
for cover. The adviser was limited  to recommending Lloyds  products, so has done nothing 
wrong in only recommending such policies. If he told them  they couldnt take life cover  out 
through anyone  else he will have done something wrong. But there isnt sufficient evidence  
to persuade me that he did this. 
And even  if he did Im not persuaded that S would not have paid the same  overall  amount in 
premiums that it did pay if Mr and Mrs W had gone elsewhere for cover  anyway. This is 
because they reduced the level of CIC so that the premium they were paying  was affordable.
In the circumstances, if they had found cheaper cover elsewhere  I think  it is more  likely than 
not that all that wouldve happened  is they wouldve increased the level of CIC (and in turn 
the premium) and ended up paying a similar  amount in overall  premiums  anyway. So I dont 
think S has suffered  any loss even if Mr and Mrs W were misled by the adviser  about  the 
need to take out cover  through Lloyds. 
Lloyds has offered redress on the basis  they shouldve been recommended  joint policies. If 
Mr and Mrs W want to accept that offer on behalf  of S they need to tell Lloyds.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Ref: DRN18009284Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1800928