K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that following making  a claim to Aviva  Insurance  Limited for stolen 
items and then withdrawing the claim because the items were  returned, their insurance 
policy was cancelled. They also want the fraud  marker against them  removed from the 
insurance database. 
background
Mr S contacted Aviva to report the loss of his golf clubs  and various other items when he left 
them unattended in the car park next to his car, whilst he used the clubhouse  facilities. He 
wanted to make a claim through  his and his wifes home insurance policy.
Aviva says it advised Mr S to report the theft to the police and that it would contact  the golf 
club to make enquiries.
Mr S called Aviva back on the same  day to confirm that the missing items had been  returned 
to him.  
Aviva says that it asked  Mr S how the items were returned to him in such  a short space  of 
time. He explained the items  had been  taken by a non-member of the golf club and later 
handed in to the reception.  The reception  had called Mr S to let him know and he had 
collected his clubs  and proceeded to play golf.
Aviva says it contacted  the golf clubs reception  who had no knowledge of these events.
Aviva says it called  Mr S to advise  him of this discrepancy, at which point he changed his 
account of how the items had gone missing. He said he must have left the items on his own 
driveway and someone had taken them and handed them  into the golf club reception, who 
then contacted him. 
This led Aviva to doubt the legitimacy of the claim and it carried out a review.
Aviva wrote to Mr S explaining that it had been  unable to verify any of the details he had 
provided and it believed he had made a fraudulent claim. It advised it would be passing  the 
file to its underwriters who may wish to change  or cancel the policy.
Aviva say that the following  general  condition of Mr and Mrs S insurance terms and 
conditions was breached:
5. Fraud
If your claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated we will not pay any benefit  under this 
policy or return any premium to you and we may cancel your policy  immediately and 
backdate the cancellation  to the date of the fraudulent claim. We may also take legal action 
against you.
Mr and Mrs S home insurance  policy was cancelled from the date of the claim and a fraud  
marker placed on the relevant insurance database.   
Ref: DRN11981862Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree with the decision to cancel their policy and made a complaint. 
Mr S contacted Aviva again to say that the missing golf clubs had actually been  left with a 
neighbour at the time. Aviva responded and didnt uphold their complaint.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept Aviva had correctly  cancelled their insurance  policy  and brought 
their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Aviva needed  to do anything further because they had 
correctly applied the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs S policy  to cancel their claim. He 
also said he wouldnt be asking it to remove any markers against their names.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  I havent upheld the complaint and Ill explain 
why.
From Avivas  case notes I can see that when  Mr S first contacted  Aviva  to report the missing  
golf clubs and equipment, he advised  he was at the go club when the items were stolen. He 
gave a detailed  account of getting  the golf clubs out of his car and setting them  up on an 
electric trolley. He then said he left the trolley with the clubs  by his car and went to use the 
clubhouse facilities and upon returning found his clubs and equipment  gone.  
Aviva then contacted  the golf clubs reception to verify whether the golf clubs  had been 
handed in. It was informed there was no record of a theft being reported or any golf clubs 
being handed in. Aviva checked the evidence  provided by the golf club and found  it also had 
no record of any conversation with Mr S. This shows me its more likely than not the clubs  
were never handed into the reception.
I can see that when  Aviva asked Mr S about the discrepancies in his claim, he initially  denied  
saying he had left the golf clubs by his car and then, when challenged further, he changed 
his account of events twice. There  is no evidence  to confirm any of the accounts Mr S has 
given. In addition,  I have seen no evidence that the theft was reported to the police or the 
golf club. In my opinion Mr S recollection  of events is inconsistent and not persuasive.
For the reasons  Ive given, I think there  are enough  discrepancies in and a lack of 
verification of Mr S claim for Aviva  to have reached the decision it did  that he deliberately 
misrepresented facts in order to attempt to gain benefit from his and his wifes policy. 
Mr S has been given the opportunity to comment further regarding  the state  of mind he says 
he was in at the time he made  the claim. Following his comments  I dont see anything that 
would have influenced the inconsistences in his accounts of events.
In my view, Aviva  has acted fairly in applying the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs S 
policy in cancelling  it from the date of the fraudulent claim. It has also acted correctly in 
registering its decision on the insurance  database.  
Ref: DRN11981863my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Aviva  Insurance Limited has acted correctly  in line with the 
terms of Mr and Mrs S policy  and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2019.
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1198186