K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains through a third party representative about the loans CashEuroNet  UK LLC 
(CEN) lent her. She has said the loans were  irresponsibly lent and she couldnt afford to 
repay them.
background
Miss C received a number  of loans from CEN between June 2013 and December 2017, two 
of the loans were  payday loans and the others  were  instalment loans. From the information 
CEN has provided, the loan amounts varied  from £100 to £1,000 and the loans were as 
follows:
loan number
date taken amount term max repayments date repaid
1 06/06/13 £1,000 356 days £154.27 28/11/14
1a 15/08/13 £55 347 days £149.11 28/11/14
1b 04/10/13 £115 357 days £159.28 28/11/14
1c 17/12/13 £60 346 days £147.57 28/11/14
2 22/02/14 £100 65 days £129.50 27/06/14
3 10/01/15 £250 75 days £306 26/03/15
4 18/04/15 £600 340 days £88.54 23/03/16
5 14/08/16 £500 348 days £74.90 29/12/17
5a 15/06/17 £450 344 days £87.17 29/12/17
Miss C took out additional borrowing on loan 1 and 5. Miss C topped  up loans 1 three  
times and when she requested additional borrowing on loan 5, the loan term increased  and it 
was rolled into a new loan (5a).
When Miss C complained to CEN, it didnt uphold her complaint. It said it carried out 
proportionate checks and didnt think Miss C was dependent on its loans. Unhappy  with 
CENs response, Miss C referred her complaint to this service where it was looked  at by one 
of our adjudicators.
Ref: DRN19564572Our adjudicator didnt  think CENs checks for any of the loans went far enough. They  thought 
that had CEN carried out proportionate checks  before lending any of the loans, its likely to 
have found that Miss C was unable to afford loans 1  4. And so CEN was wrong to lend her 
those loans. Our adjudicator thought that CENs checks  for loans  5 and 5a went far enough 
and didnt recommend that they should  be upheld.
CEN didnt  agree with our adjudication in full. It said its checks went far enough for loans 1 
and 4 but thought it shouldve done  more  before  lending loans 2 and 3 and so it agreed to 
refund the interest and charges Miss C paid towards those loans. Miss C didnt accept the 
offer and as the complaint  remained unresolved  it has come to me  an ombudsman for a 
decision.
CEN has offered  to refund the fees and charges Miss C paid on loans 2 and 3 including 
interest. As this is in line with what Id ask CEN to do to put things right,  I havent  
reconsidered those  loans again. Also as Miss C didnt disagree with the adjudicators  
findings on loans  5 and 5a,  my decision focusses on the other  loans in dispute  loans 1 
(including its top-ups)  to 4.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
At the time of loan 1 including its additional top  ups and loan 2, the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT) was the regulator for lenders like CEN and from loan 3 onwards, the regulator  was the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).  
For reference, CONC 5.3.1G (6) (a) - in full - states:
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
The OFT defined sustainability in much the same way as the FCA later did. Section 4.2 of
the OFTs Irresponsible  Lending Guidance (ILG) says:
Ref: DRN19564573Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment  of
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before  granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or
significantly increasing the credit limit under  an agreement for running  account credit,
creditors should take reasonable steps  to assess a borrowers likely ability to be able to meet
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
And Section 4.3 says:
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning  credit that can be
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem
indebtedness 
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings,  without having to realise  security  or assets.
And Section 4.4 defines undue difficulty as the borrower being able to make repayments:
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings
and;
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Effectively, both regulators expected that before lending money to a consumer, a lender 
should carry out proportionate checks to see whether the consumer could repay their 
borrowing in a sustainable manner - without  it adversely impacting their financial situation. 
The fact that Miss C repaid the loans  doesnt  necessarily mean she did so sustainably.
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Cs income and expenditure at the time.  With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might 
be reasonable and proportionate.   
And so Ive considered CENs checks and whether they were  sufficient.  Ive also thought 
about whether  any insufficient checks meant  that it lent when  it shouldve  know  Miss C 
couldnt afford the loan.
Did CEN  carry  out proportionate checks?
CEN has told us what checks it carried out. It has said before lending, it searched  Miss Cs 
credit file, checked her income, employment  and housing  status.  And before lending some  of 
the loans, it checked her expenses as well. CEN  hasnt provided the results  of its search into 
Miss Cs credit file but Miss C has provided a copy of her file. And from what I can see, 
Miss C had two county court judgements (CCJs)  registered on her file in December 2012 
and January 2015. She also had a default entered in April 2013.
During the lending, Miss Cs income  varied from £1,375 to £1,600 and her declared 
expenses for some  of the loans varied  from £675 to £775. Miss C was recorded as 
Ref: DRN19564574employed and renting.  CEN also said that for loan 4 it used  third parties to verify the 
information Miss C provided  and worked out her estimated disposable income (EDI)  as 
£825.
Ive carefully thought  about the checks CEN  said it carried out and having done  so, I dont 
think its checks for any of the loans  went far enough and Ill explain why.
CEN told this service that when it searched  Miss Cs credit file, it specifically checked for 
defaults and county court judgements and said there  was nothing that caused it concern. As 
I stated above, CEN hasnt provided  the results of its search but from what I can see from 
the credit  file Miss C provided, from the time loan 1 and all its top-ups, she had a CCJ 
(December 2012) and a default  recorded  on her file, both these entries  were  active at the 
time. And so I think given  what CEN  told us, its likely to have seen this adverse information 
on Miss Cs file.
And while Im not saying  that this information shouldve automatically  prevented  CEN from 
lending to Miss C, I think this information  alongside  the large loan amount for loan 1 and the 
term of around 12 months shouldve  concerned  CEN. I think before  lending this loan, it 
shouldve wanted  to understand more about  Miss Cs financial  circumstances,  particularly 
understanding her expenses and committed outgoings. I dont think  given the circumstances 
of Miss Cs financial  situation, which CEN shouldve known  about, it was reasonable to lend 
to her without taking its checks further.
There was a gap of around  seven months  between  when  Miss C repaid  loan 2 and when 
she took out loan 3. I think  this gap was significant  and sufficient  to have led CEN to believe 
that Miss C may no longer  be dependent on these loans.
By the time Miss C was requesting loan 4, she had another CCJ recorded on her credit file 
from January 2015, again I think given what CEN told us about its checks  its likely  to have 
seen this. CEN checked Miss Cs income and expenses  and that it used third parties to 
verify some of the information, given CEN insists that Miss Cs loans were responsibly lent, it 
ought to know   and have  explained  how it interpreted the information it gathered and how 
it led to a responsible  lending  decision being  made  in this case. Without this explanation 
from CEN,  I cant  take it as read that this lending decision was fair. Id also point out that the 
use of industry standard software  isnt in itself demonstrative of the fact that the lending  
decision was fair.
Given that this loan was the largest  Miss C had requested and she was due to repay  it over 
around 12 months, before agreeing to lend this loan, CEN shouldve been  looking  to build a 
clear picture of Miss Cs financial  circumstances  including  verifying  some  of the information 
by requesting her payslips  or utility bills.
Ref: DRN19564575why did this matter?
Miss C has provided copies of her bank statements which Ive use to reconstruct her 
circumstances at the time of the loans.  Im not suggesting here that CEN had to request 
Miss Cs bank statements  as it couldve requested  payslips or utility bills for example. I 
accept different checks might show different things. And just because  something shows  up 
in the information Miss C has now provided,  doesnt  mean it wouldve shown up in any 
checks CEN mightve carried out. But in the absence  of anything else from CEN showing 
what this information  wouldve  shown, I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to place 
considerable weight on it as an indication  of what Miss Cs financial circumstances were 
likely to have been at the time.
loans 1, 1a, 1b, 1c
Had CEN carried out proportionate checks before lending here, its likely to have found  that 
Miss Cs income was around £1, 375, similar  to what  shed told it and her normal living  costs 
and regular financial commitments were around  £1,100. The maximum instalment payment 
for this loan was £154.27. So on the face of it seems Miss C wouldve been left with 
sufficient disposable  income. However, she was tied into repaying this loan for 12 months 
and in my opinion it seems likely that this amount she was left with wouldnt be sufficient to 
allow her sustainably repay the loan over the term. I think there was a high chance  that wed 
have needed to borrow further,  especially as she was borrowing from at least  one other 
short term lender  around  the time.  And so CEN shouldnt have given her this loan.
When Miss C requested the additional  funds of £55, she had been repaying loan 1 for two 
months and the maximum repayment  on loan 1a was now £149.11. Miss Cs living costs  
were around  £1,070  and her income was around  £1,419 but she had around  £277 
outstanding to another short term lender. This suggests that she couldnt  sustainably afford 
to repay  the loan over term.
Loan 1b had a maximum repayment  of around £159 and Miss Cs circumstances hadnt 
changed much around the time of this loan  her income was around £1,462 and her normal 
living expenses remained similar and she was still borrowing and repaying another  short 
term lender. This additional borrowing had extended the term of the loan which meant that 
Miss C was going to be repaying over a longer time. And I dont think Miss C was in a 
position to sustainably repay  the loan.
Miss C was also in a similar position  at the time of loan 1c, her living  costs  hadnt reduced 
and she again  continued to borrow from other lenders. Given the number of times Miss C 
requested additional funds, and the term of the loans  I think CEN shouldve been  
concerned that she was dependent on these  loans and may not have been using them  for 
their intended purpose. In fact before Miss C finished repaying  this instalment loan, shed 
been lent a payday loan by CEN  and so its likely  to have  seen  that she was dependent on 
these loans and shouldnt have lent to her.
Ref: DRN19564576loan 4
Had CEN carried out proportionate checks before lending this loan,  its likely  to have found 
that Miss Cs income was around £1,598 and her normal living costs were around  £1,072  
and she had around £424 outstanding to another  short term lender. Taking into account the 
maximum repayment on this loan was around  £89, Miss C wasnt  in a position to sustainably  
repay this loan over the term and I dont think CEN should have lent to her in those 
circumstances.
Altogether and based on the information  available,  I think CEN shouldnt  have given Miss C 
loans 1, 1a, 1b, 1c and 4 as she wasnt  in a position to sustainably  repay  those loans and 
she has lost out as a result. And as CEN acknowledges  that it shouldnt  have lent Miss C 
loans 2 and 3 as well, it needs  to put things right.
putting things right  what CEN needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss C paid on loans 1 to 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were  paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse  information about those  loans  from Miss Cs credit  file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires CEN to take off tax from this interest. CEN must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Cs complaint in part and require CashEuroNet  UK LLC to put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1956457