K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) was wrong to decline a claim she 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit 1974 (section  75) in respect of a vehicle 
purchase.
background
In September  2018 Mrs B paid, using  her Santander credit card, a deposit of £250 to a 
dealership (that I will call A) for a second  hand vehicle (vehicle) costing £3,800.
Mrs B then paid, using her Santander  debit card, £3,550 to A to complete the purchase  of 
the vehicle.
Shortly after paying £3,800 for the vehicle Mrs B says it was deemed,  by one or more  third 
parties, as being  unsafe.
Mrs B says she tried to seek a full refund of the vehicle from A. But when it refused to 
provide a refund she brought a claim for the same against Santander under section 75.
Mrs B says that after initially agreeing with her, Santander then declined  her section 75 claim 
on the grounds that the vehicle wasnt supplied to her.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs B referred  a complaint to our service. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that Santander 
had done nothing wrong in its handling  of Mrs Bs section  75 claim.
Mrs B didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review  and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I know it will disappoint Mrs B but I agree with the investigators view on this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
First I would like to confirm that Ive considered whether it would have been appropriate for 
Santander to have attempted one or more chargebacks on behalf of Mrs B instead  of, or in 
addition to, considering a section 75 claim from her. But based on what both parties have 
said and submitted Im satisfied that one or more chargebacks wouldnt have been possible 
given when Mrs B first notified  Santander  of her dispute.
Ref: DRN13052822Its not for me to decide the outcome of a section 75 claim. Instead, I need to decide if I think  
Santander treated  Mrs B fairly and reasonably,  taking into account its obligations under the 
relevant law, which includes section 75.
The general effect of section  75 is that if Mrs B has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract  against a supplier of goods or services  she can also bring that claim against 
Santander  provided certain conditions are met. One of those conditions is that there must 
be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier  (d-c-s) relationship.
In this case, Mrs B is the debtor because shes used credit provided by Santander to buy a 
vehicle, the creditor  is Santander because its provided credit to Mrs B and the supplier is A. 
But I consider that the contracting party with A, and the sole contracting party, wasnt Mrs B 
but her daughter. And Mrs Bs involvement  in this transaction (in providing, amongst other 
things, the means  of payment) simply isnt enough  for me to conclude  otherwise.
Now I appreciate Mrs Bs point that a V5 is a record of a vehicles registered keeper and not 
its owner. I also accept that Mrs B would have derived  some  benefit from the vehicle in the 
sense that she would  have been a passenger in it on a regular basis  and could drive it under 
the driving other cars extension  of her own vehicle policy. I also accept what  Mrs B says 
about the warranty. 
But as well as the V5 being registered  in Mrs Bs daughter name, the invoice for the vehicle 
was made  out in her daughters name,  the vehicle was insured in her daughters  name only 
and her daughter  was present when  the vehicle was purchased and the relevant paperwork  
completed. It also appears that Mrs B, as well as having access  to her own vehicle,  may at 
the relevant time had access to one or more  other  vehicles.
Because Ive concluded that Mrs B wasnt a contracting party with A Im satisfied that there 
is no valid d-c-s relationship and that Santander treated Mrs B fairly and reasonably in 
declining her claim under section 75.
I appreciate this is a technical area of the law, and that Mrs B is likely to be frustrated by this 
outcome. However  Mrs B doesnt have  to accept this decision and may pursue  this matter by 
alternative means should she wish to do so, including in court.  
For the sake of completeness I would also add that Ive only concluded here that there is no 
valid d-c-s relationship  not that the vehicle was, or wasnt, of satisfactory  quality when 
supplied.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Peter Cook
Ref: DRN13052823ombudsman
Ref: DRN1305282