K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA). 
background
Miss B contacted RSA after she found  her home  had been damaged in a break in. She 
wasnt happy with the service  she received  and complained to us. She also felt her policy  
may have  been  mis-sold to her. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter but did not find in her favour.  Miss B has 
asked that the case be reviewed, so it has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint either, Ill explain why. 
Concerning the break in damage  Miss Bs policy would have covered repairs  connected  to 
this, but not immediately. She had standard buildings cover  that just requires the insurer  to 
repair damage when  possible; depending  on the time and schedule of works  this can take 
days or weeks. Her policy does have  the option  of 24 hour home emergency cover  but she 
didnt elect to take this option, so I cant find that RSA were in the wrong when they said they 
couldnt repair the damage straight  away, the cover she held didnt entitle her to that 
standard of service.  
I am aware  she was in a vulnerable position  at the time, having just discovered  a break in, 
but that doesnt mean I can extend cover to her that she didnt have. Had she held the 24 
hour cover things would  have been different. 
That brings me to the mis-sale issue. To decide  her policy was mis-sold I would to have to 
see that Miss B was actively told something incorrect  about  her cover, or that something  
important wasnt available  to her to read. Im not persuaded of either of these  things. The 
policy wording re theft or attempted theft damage makes no promises  re time of repair  and I 
cant see that it would be reasonable to assume this would be immediately. Equally the 24 
hour cover option is clear,  and particularly when read with the other policy  sections seems  to 
me to clearly  imply  that one would allow for immediate help, the other  does not. Based on 
that I cannot agree the policy was mis-sold  to Miss B. 
Ref: DRN18318332my final decision
I make  no award against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1831833