K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited (BMWFS) failed to correctly  
update his account balance after hed made  lump  sum payments towards it.
Background 
I issued my provisional decision in June 2020.  In that decision I explained  that, unless I was 
provided with additional  information  that changed my mind, I was expecting to uphold  Mr Ks 
complaint. An extract from that provisional decision is set out below.
Mr K took receipt of a new car in June 2017. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS. The amount of credit provided was £30,754  and this included 
£736.03 of interest.  There were  to be 29 monthly instalments of £574.58 and a final payment 
of £14,828.21 was due at the end of the agreement if Mr K wished to take ownership  of the 
car.
In 2018 Mr K made two lump sum payments, one for £10,000 in January 2018  and a further 
payment of £1,869 a few months later in April.
Mr K wanted  to reduce the size of the instalments  but keep  the term of the contract. The first 
lump sum payment was correctly administered but the second  caused problems for BMWFS. 
They had to reload the agreement and create a new agreement but they were  unable to 
justify the balance on the account. Exasperated and concerned he was being asked to pay 
interest that hed been trying to avoid  through the lump sum payments hed made, Mr K 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator noted that BMWFSs system notes explained that in April 2018 when Mr K 
had contacted them it was with a view to settle  his account. The settlement figure  generated 
at that point, before BMWFS had reloaded the agreement, was £16,813.24.  So he didnt 
think Mr K should have to pay anything more.  He noted that since  then Mr K had made  a 
lump sum payment of £1,869 and he thought that, along with any other payments hed made 
towards his account  since 4 April 2018,  should be deducted from the settlement figure that 
Mr K needed  to pay on the account.
He thought it was clear  that Mr K had been  inconvenienced by matters  so he also thought it 
would be fair for BMWFS to pay him £150  compensation.  And he said they should agree  to 
remove any adverse reports they may have made towards Mr Ks credit file.
BMWFS didnt respond and the complaint was therefore referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view but the redress Im expecting  to make is slightly  different. 
Please let me explain why. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN17341742Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
settlement figure 
Since the investigator provided his view on this complaint  I can see that the finance 
agreement reached  the end of its term. BMWFS confirmed that the balance to pay was 
£14,145.30 and Mr K paid that to ensure  that his credit file wasnt  adversely impacted whilst 
this investigation  was concluded.  He was still unclear about whether  that settlement was 
correct and BMWFS  have  still not provided  a breakdown of the account to demonstrate that 
undue interest was not attracted.
BMWFS havent responded to our investigators requests to provide clarification on the 
calculation theyve completed to arrive at the final payment. 
So, in the absence of that calculation, Ive considered whether that settlement seems  fair 
and I think it probably is.
The settlement  quote  provided on 4 April 2018  was £16,813.24
I can see from the account history that payments of £115.74 + £1,869  + £29.65  were  
subsequently credited  to the account.  So that would leave £14,798.85 to pay less any 
interest Mr K saved by making lump sum payments.
Mr K settled his account for £14,145.30 which suggests he saved £653.55 in interest 
charges by making his lump sum payments.
The total amount  of interest due on the original agreement was only £736 and Mr K had 
already paid seven instalments, which included some interest, on his account by the time he 
asked for a settlement quotation.  I therefore  think the final settlement Mr K has made  seems  
most likely to be correct. So Im not asking BMWFS to return any part of the settlement 
figure they received.
distress and inconvenience
I think Mr K has been inconvenienced here. Hes been troubled by BMWFSs original error 
when having to reload the agreement and hes had to be very accommodating in the face of 
the business frequent failure to provide information  about the account balance and interest 
saved. Hes therefore had to pay a settlement figure in the absence  of any clarification  about  
how BMWFS  had arrived at it. BMWFS have also failed to provide information  to this service  
to show how the settlement  was reached and I think its clear  that has delayed matters  for 
Mr K. More  latterly I can see that BMWFS  sent Mr K a letter  explaining that late payment 
interest had been  applied  to his account  when  Mr K had already paid the account balance in 
full. 
Ref: DRN17341743In the circumstances I dont think the amount of compensation  the investigator suggested is 
sufficient and Im expecting to tell BMWFS  to pay Mr K £500. I think thats  fairer  given the 
distress and inconvenience thats  been  documented here.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im currently expecting to uphold  this complaint in part and 
to tell BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited  to:
pay Mr K £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue and ensure the agreement is shown as settled on that file;
Mr K and BMWFS  accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional  decision I have seen no reason to change  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and to tell BMW  Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to:
pay Mr K £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue and ensure the agreement is shown as settled on that file;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1734174