K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about Clerical Medical  Financial Services Limited (Clerical Medical).  Hes 
unhappy with how long Clerical Medical  took to settle  his Group Personal Pension Policy 
and the value it used to do this. He considers hes lost out financially as a result.  
background
Clerical Medical sent Mr W a Retirement Options  letter on 26 June 2018. It quoted the value 
of his policy as £121.886.41.
Clerical Medical later sent Mr W a Retirement  Options  reminder  letter on 9 October  2018.  It 
quoted the value of his policy as £126,000.79 and asked Mr W to contact it before his 75th 
birthday with the retirement option he wished to choose. 
Mr W wrote  to later Clerical Medical  saying  he wanted to take benefits from his pension 
using the Flexible  Drawdown option.  He asked Clerical Medical to send him the relevant 
forms. Mr Ws letter was received by Clerical Medical on 16 October  2018.
On 9 November  2018 Clerical Medical wrote to Mr W, including several enclosures along  
with a Flexible Access Drawdown request form. The value of Mr Ws policy at the time was 
confirmed as £119,929.05.
Mr Ws initial retirement call with Clerical Medical took place on 13 November 2018. An 
Open Market Options  statement  was sent to Mr W which  confirmed his policy  value was 
£120,828.12. Clerical  Medical advised that Mr Ws follow-up call to arrange his transfer to a 
Flexible Drawdown account had been booked for 16 November 2018. Clerical  Medical  
subsequently called  Mr W and rearranged  this call for 28 November 2018. 
On 28 November 2018 Mr W had his follow up call with Clerical Medical. Mr W confirmed 
again that he wanted to transfer to a Flexible  Drawdown account. But Clerical Medical 
advised this wasnt  possible as he was above  the minimum age for this product.
Clerical Medical wrote  to Mr W on 31 December 2018 advising that as he hadnt made a 
retirement choice, it was preparing to set up an annuity for him. It said a deadline  of 1 
February 2019 had been  set for Mr W to make  a choice.  
Mr W later called Clerical  Medical to express  concern his Flexible Drawdown account hadnt 
been set up. Clerical Medical investigated the matter and later identified things had gone 
wrong during  its retirement process. Because of this it arranged  for a concession  to be 
granted so Mr Ws plan could be transferred to a Flexible Drawdown account even though 
his 75th birthday had passed.
Following this Mr W complained to Clerical Medical  about the value  used to settle  his policy.  
On 23 January 2019 Clerical Medical  confirmed  with Mr W that his funds had been 
transferred to his new Flexible Drawdown account. Mr W was later sent a cheque  of 
£29,576.43 in respect  of his Tax Free Cash (TFC).
Clerical Medical responded to Mr Ws complaint  on 18 March 2019. In summary it said:
Ref: DRN10981242it was sorry for any frustration caused and accepted it had delayed the settlement 
process of Mr Ws policy. It failed  to take appropriate steps  following the 13 
November 2018 call. And had these steps been taken Mr W couldve moved forward  
with his transfer to a Flexible Drawdown account as of his second call on 28 
November 2018. But as this didnt happen, Mr W was wrongly  advised  that he 
wouldnt he wouldnt be able to transfer as hed requested
the settlement  process which couldve started on 28 November 2018, didnt proceed 
until 17 January 2019
for the settlement of Mr Ws policy, the valuation date used was his 75th birthday. The 
value on this date was £118,305.72. As such, the period between Mr Ws 75th 
birthday and the actual settlement of his policy hadnt resulted in any change  to the 
value
although the policy value Mr W was provided with during his initial  call was 
£120,828.12, it was confirmed that this wasnt  guaranteed and could change. The 
value of Mr Ws policy on his 75th birthday was always the value  that wouldve been  
used following the 28 November 2018  call
as the settlement of Mr Ws plan wasnt completed as it shouldve following the 28 
November 2018 call, Mr W received his TFC payment late. He received £29,576.43 
by cheque on 30 January 2019 following the transfer of his funds to a Flexible 
Drawdown account. Had the correct action been taken the transfer  process wouldve 
been completed after 28 November 2018,  with Mr Ws TFC cheque being  issued on 
11 December 2018. Because of this Clerical  Medical had calculated lost interest  from 
the period between  11 December  2018 and 30 January  2019  on the amount of 
£29,576.43
the payment  made to Mr Ws Flexible Drawdown  account had been backdated to 23 
November 2018 in line with the settlement  date used for his Clerical Medical policy
to put things right and for inconvenience  caused, it enclosed a cheque for £414.49. 
This included a net interest payment of £264.19  for the delay  in Mr W receiving his 
TFC payment
Mr W responded saying hed clearly given his instruction for his pension  to be taken  as 
Flexible Drawdown on 16 October  2018  and so the value of his pension  at this date 
(£126,000) shouldve  been secured. Mr W said the value of his pension had reduced to 
£118,000 by the time Clerical Medical  settled his policy  so compensation for the change in 
value was due.
Clerical Medical replied to Mr W on 27 March 2019 saying it wouldnt be changing  its 
position. Clerical  Medical said that while it understood Mr W felt his October 2018 letter was 
ignored, it did issue a letter and documentation  in response on 9 November 2018, providing 
the necessary  information and informing Mr W of the next steps to be taken.
Unhappy with Clerical  Medicals response Mr W referred his complaint  to our service.  One of 
our investigators considered the matter and said that although Clerical  Medical  had made an 
error, she didnt think it needed to take any further action. She said the compensation 
Clerical Medical had offered was fair and that the correct value of Mr Ws former policy had 
been transferred  to his Flexible Drawdown  account.
Mr W responded saying he thought  it peculiar that Clerical Medical preferred a phone-based  
system for confirmation  of retirement  options and couldnt see why written confirmation  
wasnt enough. He said Clerical Medicals  offer of compensation, although derisory, 
indicated it was at fault. And he didnt think the lack of acknowledgement  from Clerical  
Medical regarding  his October 2018  letter was very professional. 
Ref: DRN10981243As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
direct Clerical Medical to do anything  further.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should 
emphasise that while Ive taken  note of the correspondence, arguments and comments 
made by both parties, I have limited my response to what I consider to be the issues  central 
to this complaint.   
I should firstly say I have  sympathy for Mr W. I can appreciate it will have been frustrating 
and disappointing  experiencing the delay he did with Clerical  Medical.
Theres no dispute about the fact Clerical Medical:
delayed the settlement  process of Mr Ws policy
delayed the transfer of Mr Ws policy value to Flexible Drawdown
delayed the payment  of Mr Ws TFC 
Mr W is understandably concerned and unhappy about what  happened.  The issue I have to 
decide is whether  the action Clerical Medical has already taken satisfactorily  resolves the 
matter and sufficiently  compensates  Mr W for what went wrong. 
The delayed settlement of Mr Ws policy
I understand Mr W feels strongly he did all that was required  to secure the higher quoted  
value for his policy in October 2018  (£126,000.79) and to ensure this value  used when his 
policy was settled. Because the settlement of Mr Ws policy  and subsequent transfer was 
delayed by Clerical  Medical, he considers he lost his higher October  policy value. And hed 
like to be compensated for this.
I appreciate the point  Mr W is trying to make here but Im afraid  Im unable  to agree. The 
value used to settle Mr Ws policy was always going to be the value of the policy as at Mr 
Ws 75th birthday  (23 November 2018). This was irrespective of any delay caused by Clerical 
Medical during  the settlement process.  
The value of Mr Ws policy was effectively locked in on his policys  Retirement Date  (his 
75th birthday). Because of this, the date Mr W informed Clerical Medical of the retirement 
option he wished  to take (16 October 2018) made no difference  to the policy  value hed 
ultimately secure when  the settlement process was completed. 
I can appreciate why Mr W was unhappy given his genuine belief he missed  out on securing 
a higher policy value because of Clerical Medicals  failings.  But for the reasons Ive 
explained above, Im satisfied  Mr W hasnt suffered any financial  loss in respect of the value 
Clerical Medical used to settle his policy.
Its unfortunate the value of Mr Ws policy decreased  in the intervening period between  9 
October and 23 November 2018.  But as Mr W will appreciate, the value  of investments, by 
their very nature, do rise and fall. And as Mr Ws funds remained invested until his retirement 
Ref: DRN10981244date there  was always the possibility the policy value he secured on his policy  retirement 
date could be higher or lower than the value quoted in October 2018. 
Im also mindful that none of the policy values (other than the 23 November 2018 value) 
quoted to Mr W by Clerical Medical  were ever guaranteed. Indeed,  the correspondence sent 
to Mr W said:
Please note the policy value shown above is not guaranteed () 
Your existing policy value  () is not guaranteed ()
Any values () are calculated as at 23 November 2018.
The value of Mr Ws policy on 23 November 2018 was £118,305.72. As this was the value 
Clerical Medical used to settle Mr Ws policy, Im satisfied  Mr W received the policy  value he 
was entitled to and that his policy was ultimately  settled on the correct basis.  As Ive already 
explained, Mr W wasnt entitled to the higher policy value quoted in October 2018. So, I cant  
reasonably require Clerical Medical  pay him the compensation hes seeking in this respect.  
In a situation like this, we aim to put a consumer back in the position they would have been 
in, had the correct  action  been taken at the outset. So for Mr W, the correct action is that he 
receives the policy he was originally entitled to (based  on his policy value at his retirement 
date) and not the higher  value quoted earlier which wasnt guaranteed.  
The delayed payment of Mr Ws TFC
Based on Clerical Medicals  settlement process  and if everything  had happened  as it 
shouldve, Mr Ws TFC payment wouldve been  made on 11 December 2018.  Unfortunately,  
due to delays  and Clerical Medicals failure to take appropriate action after the 13 November 
2018 call, Mr W wasnt sent his TFC payment until 30 January 2019 . Its clear to me Mr W 
has experienced some financial loss in respect  of this delay. To compensate Mr W for 
effectively not being  able to use his TFC payment between 11 December 2018 and 30 
January 2019,  I think its appropriate that Clerical  Medical pay interest on top of Mr Ws TFC 
amount for the period he was deprived of the money he was entitled to. 
From what  Ive seen Im satisfied Clerical  Medical  has already taken appropriate action 
regarding this and compensated  Mr W fairly. Clerical Medical calculated  Mr W was due 
£264.49 in compensation  interest at 8%. This is in line with our services approach,  so I 
wont be asking Clerical  Medical to do anything further in this respect.  
Clerical Medicals settlement process
In his submissions to this service Mr W has expressed his dissatisfaction with Clerical 
Medicals settlement  process. Specifically, hes said he doesnt understand why Clerical 
Medical uses a telephone-based system for its retirement process and doesnt  just accept 
confirmation of retirement  choices in writing. 
I understand Mr W may remain of the view that Clerical Medical ought to have  settled his 
policy off the back  of his October 2018 letter to it. However, this isnt Clerical  Medicals  
process. I dont find it unreasonable that Clerical  Medical requires its customers  to have 
telephone conversations  with it during the retirement  process,  given its importance.  And 
Ref: DRN10981245especially so it can ensure its customers are fully aware of the retirement options available 
and the implications of the decisions theyre  making in taking their benefits. 
I should however  be clear  that our role isnt to tell a company how to operate.  The Financial 
Conduct Authority  is responsible for this. Moreover, the settlement process Clerical Medical 
chooses to put in place  for its customers at retirement is legitimate exercise of its 
commercial decision.  Its entitled to conduct  this process using  a telephony-based system.
Mr Ws October 2018 letter to Clerical Medical
Mr W has referred to the letter he sent Clerical  Medical in October 2018  confirming he 
wanted to take the Flexible Drawdown  option. Hes unhappy Clerical Medical didnt send him 
any acknowledgement of his letter, despite  it having been recorded as received on 16 
October 2018. Mr W considers this unprofessional and says he felt ignored. 
I can understand why Mr W is unhappy he didnt receive an acknowledgement. He provided  
his retirement choice and reasonably expected Clerical Medical to confirm receipt of this. 
I do think that acknowledging Mr Ws letter wouldve been good practice in the 
circumstances. But I havent  seen anything to suggest Clerical Medical was deliberately 
ignoring Mr W. Indeed, further to Mr Ws October 2018 letter, Clerical Medical later sent him 
a retirement pack which included the relevant Flexible Drawdown form Mr W had requested. 
Clerical Medical was clearly aware  of the retirement  option Mr W had selected. 
Im mindful however that Clerical Medicals  retirement pack was sent over three weeks after 
it received Mr Ws October 2018  letter. So again,  I can understand why Mr W wouldve 
expected an acknowledgement of his letter sooner. Its unfortunate this didnt happen, But, 
considering the overall circumstances here Im satisfied that Mr W suffered no detriment as a 
result of the time Clerical Medical  took to respond to his letter.  
Putting matters right
In addition to ensuring Mr Ws policy was settled using the correct value (and date) and that 
Mr W was compensated for the late payment of his TFC,  Clerical  Medical has also 
apologised for the frustration, concern  and inconvenience caused by what  happened. In 
recognition of this Clerical  Medical  also paid Mr W £150. Im aware that Mr W consider this 
level of compensation  to be derisory.  But I think it fairly  reflects  the impact of what  
happened. Considering  the trouble and upset  caused to Mr W by Clerical Medicals failings, 
Im satisfied this level of award  is in line with what Id expect to see in the circumstances. I 
havent seen anything to persuade me a larger award would be appropriate. So I wont  be 
requiring Clerical Medical to pay Mr W anything further regarding  this.
While Im not directing  Clerical Medical to make the award I understand Mr W would like, in 
that I dont  think Scottish Widows should be bound to compensate  him for the higher policy 
value quoted in October  2018 or that it should offer further compensation, I should  say that I 
do think its entirely reasonable  for him to expect Clerical Medical  to ensure the retirement  
process is completed without delay.  And its unfortunate  that in this case  that didnt happen. I 
am genuinely sorry to hear of the impact that this has had on Mr W. 
I dont underestimate  or doubt Mr Ws sincerity  or strength of feeling  in bringing his complaint 
to this service and I understand that my decision may come as a disappointment to him, but 
for the reasons Ive explained I wont be asking Clerical Medical to do anything further.
Ref: DRN10981246my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.  
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1098124