K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the level of charges and fees hes been charged by Bank  of Scotland  
plc (BoS).
background
Mr A says hes in financial difficulties and BoS is making matters  worse by charging  him 
excessive charges, which has left him in a cycle  of debt. He says the charges are causing 
him significant levels of stress and are affecting his health. Mr A also says that he doesnt 
recall agreeing to BoS changes in how it calculates  overdraft  charges.  He would like the 
charges refunded from 2013.
BoS says the charges have been applied in line with the account terms and conditions. It 
says it changed  the way in which in calculates overdraft charges but says it gave Mr A notice  
of the changes in line with his account  terms and conditions. BoS says it suspended charges 
for a month when  Mr A told it about  his financial difficulties and has offered to help him. But 
Mr A hasnt made any contact with it
Mr A brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt think  BoS had acted unfairly or 
made a mistake.  The adjudicator thought the charges couldnt  be challenged on the grounds 
they were too high following a Supreme Court case.  The adjudicator  also thought BoS had 
tried to help Mr A and had provided  him with details of organisations that could help him.
Mr A doesnt  accept that view and says BoS hasnt  helped him by freezing charges for just 
one month.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mr A will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Following a Supreme  Court decision it has been  decided that bank and building society 
charges cant be challenged on the grounds  they are too high and so unfair. And Im also 
satisfied that BoS told Mr A about the changes it made in how it calculates overdraft charges 
and fees and that Mr A kept his account  open  and so accepted the changes. I can see that 
in any event Mr As main part of his complaint  is that the charges are unfair and do not 
reflect the true cost to BoS.  But Ive not seen any evidence that suggests  BoS has acted 
outside those  account terms and conditions  or that the charges do not reflect  the true cost to 
BoS..
I appreciate Mr A says hes in financial difficulties and in those circumstances I would expect  
BoS to deal with his position positively and sympathetically. Im satisfied BoS has acted in 
such a way here. I can see that it froze charges  for a month to allow  Mr A to contact  it to 
discuss his position.  I can also see that it gave details of its specialist  department to Mr A as 
well as details of other organisations that could help him. I dont think  Mr A has spoken to 
BoS and I can see that BoS has attempted to contact him. So Im satisfied that BoS has tried 
to assist Mr A.
I can see that Mr A says he would like BoS to refund any charges since 2013. For the 
reasons Ive explained I cant fairly  order it to do so when  I dont  think  its acted unfairly or 
Ref: DRN13928372made a mistake.  I have also looked  through  Mr As account statements and I dont think  he 
has been charged overdraft fees continually from 2013. And I can see for example that there 
were significant payments  into his account at the end of 2018 followed by significant 
spending.
Overall for the reasons  Ive explained  I dont think BoS has acted unfairly but I hope  Mr A will 
now contact its specialist  team and allow  it to try and help him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1392837