K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains about British Gas Insurance  Limiteds (BG) service  under her Home Care  
insurance policy and that it handled her complaint about the claim poorly.
Mrs M will see that my decision  is about  her as a sole complainant, rather  than a joint 
complainant with her husband as detailed in our investigators correspondence. Mrs M is the 
sole policyholder  and the correct complainant  for my decision to be about.
Mrs M will also see that my decision is about a different part of the British  Gas businesses 
than referred to in our investigators correspondence. Mrs Ms complaint is about service 
under a claim so BG is the correct business  for my decision to be about, and it hasn't 
objected.
The changes to the complainant and business havent altered the outcome of my decision.
background
Mrs M has Home  Care insurance with BG which includes kitchen appliance cover.
In mid-December 2018 Mrs M booked an appointment  online with BG to have  her oven 
repaired under  the policy.  The first available appointment was listed  at 8 February  2019.  
Mrs M was surprised  but as it was winter she thought there  were  more urgent matters  BG 
had to deal with and she didnt want to make a fuss.  
Mrs M says she found the wait very inconvenient as she has two children to cater for and 
had to change  Christmas  plans as she had no working oven.
Three days before the 8 February appointment BG tried re-arrange to 1 March  2019. Mrs M 
objected, it was too late to re-arrange her leave from work booked to cover the appointment 
and she'd waited long enough. 
Eventually BG gave  an appointment for 11 February. Mrs M called  BG at 1pm that day as it 
hadnt attended. BG initially told her no one was available but an engineer came that day. 
Mrs M says it only took the engineer about  30 minutes to fix the oven and he said she should  
have only waited a couple of days for the repair.
BG accepted it had given poor service  and offered Mrs M £50.
Mrs M complained to us. She said £50 wasnt enough and she wants a proper apology  from 
BG. She said the BG representative who dealt with her complaint was unsympathetic and 
offered £50 just to close the complaint quickly. BG also told her that if shed phoned  to report 
the breakdown  in December it would have attended sooner. 
Our investigator thought BG should  pay an additional £100  in compensation and send Mrs M 
a letter  to apologise for its poor service.
Mrs M agrees to our investigator's recommendation. BG disagrees and wants  an 
ombudsmans decision. 
Ref: DRN12394692my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.
The policy says BG will carry out any repairs within a reasonable time. I dont think eight 
weeks is a reasonable time to wait for an oven to be repaired.
On BGs booking form for an appointment Mrs M was asked to describe the reason  she 
needed an engineer and Mrs M put oven not working. BG said the comments arent 
provided to the engineer until the day of the visit and it didnt know  the oven wasnt  working 
at all when Mrs M booked  the repair.
However, from the evidence Ive seen, Mrs M wouldnt  reasonably  have been aware that BG 
didnt know the problem until the appointment day. 
BG also said Mrs M should have phoned  for an earlier appointment if she didnt want to wait 
the two months.  It is reasonable for consumers to mitigate their losses,  in this case  for Mrs M 
to try to reduce her inconvenience. I accept Mrs Ms point that the online booking scheme 
doesnt say to call for urgent matters. But I think it would have been reasonable for her to 
have called BG to explain  her situation was urgent and see if there was an earlier 
appointment, particularly as she was asked to wait such a long time.
However, I dont think Mrs M not calling  means that BG gave reasonable service. Also, it 
accepted it gave poor service when offering Mrs M £50 compensation.
Ive taken into account BGs handling of Mrs Ms complaint about her claim.  Ive listened to 
the call recording.  I dont think BGs complaint  handler sounded like she was reading a script  
or was unsympathetic.  Mrs M wasnt initially given a chance to speak  about  the points she 
wanted to raise before it made the offer so I understand why Mrs M feels  she wasnt  listened 
to then. However, later in the call she made  her points to BG.
It's clear from the call that Mrs M was particularly upset BG cancelled the 8 February 
appointment. I understand why when  shed already patiently waited two months  and had 
taken an unnecessary day's  leave from work.  
Looking at matters  overall  I think £100  compensation in addition to the £50 BG has already 
paid is a reasonable amount for Mrs Ms distress and inconvenience caused  by BGs poor 
service. Ive taken the mitigation issue into account  in my decision. I note Mrs M agrees  the 
amount.
It's important  to Mrs M to have a letter of apology from BG about its poor service and I think  
it should provide  a letter.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Ref: DRN12394693pay Mrs M £100 compensation (in addition to the £50 its already paid) for her 
distress and inconvenience, and
send Mrs M a letter of apology for its poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1239469