K821x#15complaint
Ms G has complained about Easy Financial Plannings (EFP) involvement in the transfer of 
her deferred  final salary pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP). EFP is an 
appointed representative of WSW Financial Services Ltd. The transfer  was arranged so she 
could invest in high risk unregulated overseas investments. Ms G says EFP failed to act in 
her best interests  by arranging the transfer. This has led to considerable losses.
background
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He set out the background in a letter  to 
WSW dated 31 May 2017. I have  summarised  that background below.
In 2010, Ms G says she and her father were cold called by a company selling the idea of 
overseas investments. This company was unregulated. Ms G says the agent was very 
persuasive. She was convinced about the idea of investing money in a Harlequin overseas 
property investment and a Bamboo  investment. 
Ms G says the presentation the agent gave included a number  of figures and glossy  
brochures. It lasted  several hours. She was told how she could use her final salary  pension 
to invest. By doing so, Ms G was persuaded she would greatly improve  her position in 
retirement. Ms G was told the agent  and his business partner had both invested. She felt this 
added credibility  to the investment.
Having convinced Ms G she should invest,  the agent said he needed  to refer her to a 
colleague to arrange the transfer  of her pension. Ms G was referred to Choices Financial 
Solutions. The adviser at Choices said he was a pensions expert and he would arrange 
everything. Ms G says she was comforted by the fact the adviser  at Choices and a colleague 
of his had also invested. Also because she was told his firm was regulated - although she 
didnt really understand what  this meant. 
Choices then asked  EFP to give Ms G advice about  whether she should  transfer  her 
pension. Ms G says she received reports, but didnt really understand them.  She knew these  
were from EFP, but believed EFP was part of Choices.
The adviser at Choices told Ms G to expect to receive the reports, but because  he and the 
unregulated adviser  had already invested, she was persuaded investing was the right thing 
to do; irrespective of what  the reports might say.
The adviser at Choices convinced Ms G the report was incorrect,  as it only referred  to the 
proposed Bamboo  investment. As Ms G was planning to invest most of her money in 
Harlequin property,  she wouldnt  have all of her eggs in one basket as the report  
suggested. The Harlequin investment was in bricks and mortar and so couldnt be safer.
Ms G says a letter she wrote instructing EFP to go ahead with the transfer  was dictated to 
her over the phone by Choices. She was told the letter was needed to aid the set-up  of the 
SIPP. Ms G says that with hindsight this was nave,  but it didnt click with her at the time 
that something was wrong.
The report  sent to Ms G on 6 October  2011 made clear she should  remain in the final salary 
pension because it will provide guaranteed benefits for life from age 60 regardless of 
financial market movements. 
Ref: DRN13089822It also said Investing in unregulated off-shore propositions such  as forestry or Bamboo  
would be a very risky strategy and you could stand  to lose your entire fund with no 
recourse.
The report  said the pension benefits were extremely valuable and very expensive  to obtain 
by other  means.  Ms G would need  to achieve  growth of 14.98% pa to provide equivalent 
benefits. This figure was likely to be unsustainable; even for a high risk investor. EFPs 
advice was not to transfer.
EFP said with off-shore investments Ms G would  lose flexibility and control.  Given her 
moderate to speculative attitude to risk, placing her entire pension  in high risk overseas 
assets would  be unduly optimistic. EFP didnt feel the investment was suitable. Its advice 
was not to proceed.
Ms G went ahead with the transfer.  She says she was persuaded  by the presentations the 
unregulated adviser  had made and by Choices. She had trusted them  both.
An amount  of £135,083.14 was transferred to a Lifetime SIPP  in March  2012  of this 
£81,000 was used as a deposit on the purchase  of a Harlequin property. £32,623.23  was 
invested in an EcoPlanet  Bamboo investment. 
Ms G was then persuaded by Choices to transfer  £16,000 from the SIPP  to a new SIPP.  
This money  was invested in another unregulated investment scheme.
Ms G managed to withdraw funds from the EcoPlanet Bamboo investment in August 2014.  
She received £30,819.36. She also made a complaint to The Financial  Services  
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about the advice Choices had given her to invest the 
£16,000 she had later transferred to a second  SIPP. This claim was paid in February 2017, 
with a settlement  of £14,524.71.
Documents from the time EFP arranged the transfer of Ms Gs pension  to the SIPP  recorded  
the following  information;
She was aged  53, single and living with her elderly father.
She was employed  earning £15,000pa.
She had been  a member of the final salary pension scheme for around 20 years.
Her planned retirement  age was 60.
Her attitude to investment risk was moderate to speculative.
Ms G says she had only ever invested  in deposit  accounts up to this point and owned a half 
share in the property with her father. The property was estimated to be worth around  
£222,000. She had no mortgage but a credit card/overdraft with an outstanding balance  
totalling £4,000.
Ms Gs complaint was rejected by EFP as they advised her not to transfer  and invest in 
overseas investment funds. The transfer  was then arranged on an Insistent Client basis,  
Ms G having  chosen to ignore the advice. There had been no mention of Harlequin in the 
report as EFP didnt know about  this investment. Its now believed Ms G had committed  to 
this investment prior to EFP being  engaged. Prior to arranging  the transfer, EFP sought 
advice from the regulator  about arranging transactions on this basis.
Ref: DRN13089823Our adjudicator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He gave  the following reasons:
EFP correctly identified that Ms G should not transfer her pension benefits. The 
growth rate required just to match the benefits  was too high and the investments 
were too high risk for her. Ms G did not have the capacity to accept the loss of her 
pension benefits.
EFP spoke to the regulator about  the scenario where an investor  might  choose to 
ignore suitable  advice.  Ms Gs case wasnt an isolated case. There  were a number of 
similar transactions over a limited period of time.  This should have raised questions 
about why so many clients were  ignoring  suitable  advice. EFP should have 
considered whether  the transfer was in the clients best interests.
EFP didnt charge  for its initial advice.  This was relevant  as EFP would not receive  
any payment unless the client transferred.  This was a conflict  of interest.
The role of the adviser at Choices was significant. He acted to mitigate the advice 
EFP had given.
Taking all of these factors into account  EFP should have realised that Ms Gs 
decision to act against their advice must be made  with external influence.  If EFP had 
acted in Ms Gs best interests they should  have refused  to arrange the transfer.
WSW didnt agree  with the adjudicator.  They told us:
Much  of the letter from the adjudicator  suggests  that EFP was not following the rules  
or acting  in the clients best interests. 
The investigation outlines the role of another adviser. But the role of the other adviser  
has been ignored.
EFP was established as a bureau  business  accepting introductions from authorised  
financial advice firms. They advised  many  clients during this period. Some of those 
were advised not to transfer their pension.  Accurate figures are not available. The 
proportion of cases involving unregulated or esoteric  investments introduced by 
financial advisers was less than 1%.
The process followed for all clients introduced  to EFP was the same. An introducer  
agreement was signed. The financial adviser  then completed a fact find with their 
client. The facts had to be confirmed by the client as being correct.  EFP would only 
then begin the advice  stage.
The client remained  a client of the introducing financial  adviser.  Ms G remained a 
client of Choices.
In every case transacted  by EFP a fee was only charged if a pension was 
transferred. This policy was aimed at encouraging  authorised financial advisers to 
introduce cases to EFP. It has been suggested that this is in some  way suspicious, or 
a conflict of interest, this policy  was applied consistently by the firm for all classes  of 
business. Some people might view the policy as a poor one since it involved EFP 
working on cases that might not result in any payment of fees. It did allow authorised 
financial advisers to introduce  cases to EFP for analysis without risk to the adviser or 
their client  and this was for the good  of EFP in the long term.
WSW commented on the adjudication as follows:
EFP undertook a significant amount of work at no cost to Ms G. They advised Ms G 
in clear and concise terms not to transfer  her pension. This action shows  that EFP 
did indeed act in Ms Gs best interests.
Ref: DRN13089824Ms G says she was cold called by a company  selling overseas investments. This 
shows that EFP were  not party to any of the presentations for the products she 
selected. It also proves that she had decided which products  to invest in before EFP 
and Choices were  engaged.
Ms G had paid a reservation fee of £1,000 before the pension was transferred. This 
shows that she was already  committed to buy the Harlequin property
The fact find was completed by Choices. No mention was made of Harlequin resorts.  
Ms G wanted to invest in bamboo  as she very much likes the idea that local people 
and economies  can benefit from investments.
It may be true that Ms G was persuaded to invest by Choices. The documentation 
quite clearly stated that EFP was an appointed representative of WSW. It was clear  
that Choices was independent  from EFP.
The adjudicator  made  it clear  that there was an emerging  pattern of Choices 
engaging with Ms G to undermine  the clear  advice given by EFP.
The letter sent to EFP to instruct  the transfer was handwritten. It was not sent to 
Ms G for signature as part of other documents. It referred  to the report completed by 
EFP and stated that Ms G was fully aware of the risks and was a fully informed client.
It is impossible  to know  without the benefit  of hindsight what the impact of investing  in 
any investment will be. The fact that she lost money on another  investment which 
she did not disclose  to EFP had not been anticipated.
The phone call to the FSA was a responsible action  from a reasonable firm reacting 
to an area of the market for which  it had no previous experience. The clear  advice 
from the FSA was that firms are responsible for the advice they give. If a client 
ignores that advice  there is no breach of the rules. The adjudicator had chosen  to 
take one small part of the conversation  to trigger the clients  best interests  rule. At 
what stage does  the client have some responsibility?
EFP did follow the relevant rules at the time. Ms G was an insistent client. EFP 
treated her fairly  and processed  the transfer in accordance with her instructions. 
Ms G ignored the clear advice given by EFP that she should not transfer;  that was as 
a result of actions by Choices.
It cannot be right that the number of cases EFP handled should  determine whether 
an adviser is acting in its clients best interests  or not.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations,  regulators  rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
did EFP give Ms G suitable  advice?
I accept that EFP did give Ms G suitable advice. That was not to transfer her pension 
benefits; and not to invest in bamboo. However,  I have to consider whether arranging the 
transfers on an insistent  client basis was the right thing to do.
Ref: DRN13089825was EFP aware that Ms G was investing  in Harlequin?
The advice given  to Ms G was on the basis that she intended to invest  in bamboo. EFP 
made the point  that they should not be liable  for losses that they werent aware of. However, 
EFP arranged the transfer. As part of that they sent application forms to the SIPP provider. 
Those forms included a Harlequin  investment  questionnaire. It is apparent  that EFP knew  
that Ms G intended to invest in Harlequin.
Although EFP advised Ms G not to invest in bamboo or other unregulated overseas 
investments, they still arranged an investment  in Harlequin. This was also an unregulated 
overseas investment.
contingent charging
EFP did not charge a fee unless the transfer of pension benefits went  ahead.  WSW said 
that: 
every single case dealt  with by Easy Financial Planning  (UK) LLP - whether on an 
advised basis or on an Insistent Client basis - was dealt with in the same  way.
Some people might view the policy as a poor one since  it involved the firm working 
on cases that might not result in any payment of fees. It did allow  authorised financial 
advisers to introduce  cases to the firm for analysis without  risk to the adviser or their 
client and this was for the good  of Easy Financial Planning in the long term.
This is exactly  the point.  This process was in the long term interests  of EFP. So there is a 
conflict of interest with the client, in this case Ms G. If EFP decided  not to process the 
transfer because  it was not in Ms Gs best interests EFP would not be paid. I think that was a 
clear incentive to arrange the transfer,  even though EFP had advised  against it. This is a 
point that I have attached significant  weight to in reaching my decision.
the call to the FSA
WSW clearly understood that this was a risky transaction. That appears to be the reason  
why a telephone call was made to the regulator.  But I dont think the employee at the 
regulator was given the full set of facts.  And I dont think the guidance  issued since  then can 
cover every set of circumstances. One factor that I think is important is the number of 
insistent clients dealt  with by WSW. I would expect the number of clients  who act against 
advice given by a regulated adviser to be very small. This was the point made in the 1994 
pensions review guidance. In my view, that is as relevant now as it was over 20 years  ago.
duty of consistency
WSW referred  to other cases investigated  by this service. They  say those cases have similar 
facts and so should reach  similar outcomes. I have considered those cases. They  were 
resolved at the first stage  of our process  after an adjudicator gave an initial view. There  are 
some differing facts  in the cases.  One of the important things is that I am aware that there  
were a large  number of similar cases. I think its likely all of these cases  were investigated 
without that knowledge. It is therefore  possible that those cases  could have been decided 
differently by an ombudsman. In any event, I am not bound by previous decisions that have 
been made.
Ref: DRN13089826fair compensation
My aim is to put Ms G as close to the position she would  now be in if she had been  given 
suitable advice.  I think that she would have  kept her final salary  benefits. 
what did WSW do to contribute to Ms Gs loss?
EFP was paid commission of 3% for setting  up the SIPP. It split this equally with Choices. 
EFP was also aware that an unregulated business  was involved. It also dealt  with all of the 
administration for setting up the SIPP  and the investments. 
WSW was required to act in the best interests  of its client. This is the moral dilemma 
referred to when it spoke  to the regulator. If WSW  had acted in the best interests of its client, 
it should have  refused  to process  the transfer.
The transactions would not have been made but for the involvement of WSW.  Ultimately,  I 
regard WSW as being responsible for the transactions which occurred.
did EFPs actions cause the loss?
WSW knew that the money transferred into the SIPP would be invested in unregulated 
investments. WSW realised that the investments were unsuitable. It exposed  Ms Gs 
pension fund to significant risk.
the role of Choices
Choices was clearly  involved in the advice  to invest the pension  funds. But, the transfer 
could not have been made unless WSW was involved. 
the role of the unregulated firm selling  the investments
Investments were sold to Ms G by an unregulated firm. Any complaint about  that firm cannot 
be dealt with by this service. One of the purposes of regulation was to provide consumer 
protection. I think it is appropriate  that if losses are suffered  the consumer should be 
compensated for the actions of the regulated firm. Being a regulated  adviser comes with 
responsibilities. If WSW wants to take an assignment of any rights  Ms G may be able to give 
against any third parties it may do so; if compensation is paid in full.
the role of the SIPP provider
It is possible that the SIPP provider could have  prevented the investments being made. But, 
I think the primary reason  for the loss was the actions  of regulated firms  giving advice to 
Ms G. Again  if WSW wishes to take an assignment of any rights of action against  the SIPP 
provider in may do so; if compensation  is paid in full.
the role of Harlequin  and those involved with Harlequin
I am aware  that there is currently an investigation into the actions of those associated with 
Harlequin. WSW could  argue that any losses were not its fault and that it cannot reasonably 
be held responsible for the loss. However, it does not necessarily follow that it would not be 
fair or reasonable  to conclude that WSW is responsible for Ms Gs loss. 
Ref: DRN13089827The outcome of any proceedings that may arise  is not yet known and may be some  way off. 
I am not in a position to make any judgment  about  the conduct  of those involved in the 
management of Harlequin. But I acknowledge that it may be relevant to how I determine fair 
compensation for Ms G. And I can understand why WSW considers that other parties  are 
responsible, either wholly or in part, for Ms Gs loss. I have considered that very carefully,  
along with more general issues of causation and foreseeability.  
How a fund is managed is an inherent  and foreseeable  risk. But where there  may have  been  
fraud in connection  with the running of a fund then this might mean there has been  a break 
in the chain of causation.  This break might mean that its not fair to say that all of the losses 
suffered by a consumer  flow from the unsuitable  advice.
In my view, there is no doubt that Ms G would not have made the investment  if WSW  had 
taken the appropriate action. There is enough  evidence here for me to conclude  that WSW  
was not acting in its clients best interests.  I think that fair redress means that it should 
compensate Ms G for the loss of her pension fund.  That includes the investment loss that 
could not have happened, but for its advice.
I think that the losses were foreseeable. These were high risk investments. They  were 
unusual holdings, operating in a very specific way and without a track  record. They were 
complex investments  that were not easy to understand. They could suffer  large losses, the 
nature of which would be difficult to predict or estimate at the outset.
I am satisfied that Ms G would not have invested,  but for the actions of WSW. In my view, it 
is fair to assess compensation on our usual basis  aiming to put Ms G in the position  she 
would have been in but for the unsuitable advice - despite any arguments  around any fraud 
breaking the chain  of causation.
what should  WSW do?
My aim is to put Ms G in the position  she would  now be in if she had received  suitable 
advice. I think that she would have: a.) kept her existing  pension; b.) wouldnt have invested 
in Harlequin or the other investments; and c.) as a result wouldnt have opened the SIPP  
(and now be subject  to ongoing SIPP fees). In setting out how to calculate fair compensation 
my objective  is to address these three issues. That is what  Im trying  to achieve.
There are a number of possibilities and unknown factors in making  an award. While I 
understand Harlequin could allow WSW  to take over the investment  from Ms G that is now 
unlikely. 
All the variables are unknown and each may have an impact on the extent of any award I 
may make. The facts  suggest its unlikely that the property will be completed  and unlikely  
that the contract and any future payments  would  be enforceable.  While its complicated to 
put Ms G back in the position she would have  been in if WSW had acted in her interests, I 
think its fair that Ms G is compensated now. I dont think I should wait and determine each 
and every possibility  before  making an award. What is set out below  is a fair way of 
achieving this. 
Ref: DRN13089828WSW should calculate fair compensation by comparing  the value  of Ms Gs pension, if she 
had not transferred, with the current value  of her SIPP.  In summary:
1.For the final salary scheme;  review  this transfer  in line with the 
methodology issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
2.Obtain the actual transfer value of Ms Gs SIPP on the date of calculation,  
including any outstanding charges. 
3.Pay a commercial value to buy Ms Gs share in the Harlequin Property 
investment. 
In addition, WSW should:
4.Pay five years worth of future fees owed by Ms G to the SIPP.  
5.Pay Ms G £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I have explained  how WSW should carry this out in further detail below.
1.For the final salary scheme;  review  this transfer  in line with the 
methodology issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  carried out as at the date of my final decision; using the most recent 
financial assumptions published (at the date of this decision). This should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate  provider promptly following receipt of notification  of Ms Gs 
acceptance of the decision. 
WSW may wish to contact  the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Ms Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
There should also be a notional deduction  allowed for in the calculation. This deduction is for 
the £1,000 Harlequin reservation fee. 
If the review  calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Ms Gs pension  plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms G as a lump  sum.  Had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the plan, it would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore  the 
compensation may be reduced to notionally  allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid.
Ref: DRN13089829The notional allowance should  be calculated using Ms Gs marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
Ms G is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer in retirement. The notional allowance  should 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic rate of tax. However,  
as Ms G would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance  should 
be applied  to 75% of the total amount.
Simple interest should be added at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my decision until 
the date of payment. Income  tax may be payable  on this interest.
2.Obtain the actual transfer value of Ms Gs SIPP on the date of calculation,  
including any outstanding charges.
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP provider. 
3.Pay a commercial value to buy Ms Gs Harlequin Property investment. 
The SIPP only exists because of the investment in Harlequin. In order  for the SIPP to be 
closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented,  the Harlequin investment needs  to be 
removed from the SIPP.  I understand this can be done. However,  I understand that is now 
unlikely.
The valuation of the Harlequin  investment may prove difficult, as there is no market for it. To 
calculate the compensation, WSW should agree an amount with the SIPP  provider as a 
commercial value, and then pay the sum agreed  plus any costs and take ownership of the 
investment. 
If WSW is unable to buy the investment, WSW  should give it a nil value for the purposes  of 
calculating compensation (including  in step 1 above).
4.Pay five years worth of future fees owed by Ms G to the SIPP.
Had WSW  acted in Ms Gs best interests  I dont think there would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that 
Ms G continues to pay the annual  SIPP  fees if it cant be closed.  To provide certainty  to all 
parties, I think  its fair that WSW  pay Ms G an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years 
worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should provide a 
reasonable period for the parties  to arrange  for the SIPP to be closed. There are a number 
of ways they may want to seek to achieve  that. It will also provide Ms G with some 
confidence that she will not be subject to further fees.
In return for that, WSW may ask Ms G to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment she may receive  from the Harlequin investment. That undertaking 
should allow  for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount she may receive  from the 
investment. WSW will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If WSW asks 
Ms G to provide an undertaking,  payment  of the compensation awarded may be dependent  
upon provision  of that undertaking. 
5.Pay Ms G £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ms G has been caused a substantial amount of distress by the loss of her pension benefits. 
This is at a time where she is approaching retirement. This was all of her pension benefits. I 
think that a payment of £500  is appropriate to compensate for that distress.
Ref: DRN130898210my decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that WSW pays  the 
balance.
I uphold the complaint and direct WSW Financial Services  Ltd to pay fair compensation as 
set out above.  
If the amount produced by the calculation exceeds £150,000 then, in addition to the 
£150,000 plus interest I recommend that WSW  pays Ms G the balance plus simple interest 
at a rate of 8% gross a year.
Its unlikely that Ms G can accept my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance  of 
the compensation owing  to her after the money  award has been paid. Ms G may want to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1308982