K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is about  the handling of a claim under their central heating
insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in February 2020, part of which is copied 
below: 
British Gas attended to a leak under the dining room floor.  The floor had to be removed to
access the leak. British  Gas changed  a fitting  on the pipe. Mr and Mrs S say they then paid
to replace the floor and make  good the areas  affected. However,  around  two months later
there was another leak under the dining room floor in the same place.
British Gas came back out and having  taken up the floor again, it said that the mains  pipe
had "popped its fitting". British Gas repaired it but Mr and Mrs S were unhappy that they
would have to pay to have the dining room floor re-laid again and asked British Gas to pay
for this. British Gas refused, as it said the second leak was due to "component failure" and
was not related to its workmanship during the first repair.  It said that if it had been poor
workmanship, then it would have  happened within a much shorter time of the first repair,  so
it is not responsible  for the damage  caused by this leak.
British Gas did offer £30 compensation  for the delay in answering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint
but refused to pay anything more.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He recommended  that the complaint be
upheld, as it had been established  that the component that had popped off was the same
component fitted  by British Gas at the first attendance.  The investigator said British Gas
should pay the cost of repairing the affected  floor, skirting boards and walls in the dining
room. Mr and Mrs S had provided an invoice  for £250 but said some work was still to be
done, so the investigator said that it should confirm any further costs with Mr and Mrs S.
British Gas didnt  accept the investigators  assessment and also queried whether any
additional damage had been done  at all. Mr and Mrs S provided  copies of invoices and bank
statements confirming they had paid to have  the flooring replaced after the first leak and also
pointed out that British  Gass contractors had had to take up the flooring again when they
attended in April 2018, so it should be aware  that they had had this work done.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The invoice/quote provided by Mr and Mrs S to prove that they had had the dining room floor
relaid after the first leak in January  2018 for the first work is not reliable. Several  different
copies of this same  invoice have been provided by Mr and Mrs S. The first one was dated
15 February 2019 - rather than 2018 - for £1,800 plus VAT, so total of £2,160.  When  the
investigator pointed  this out, they provided  one dated March 2018 instead.  Then  British  Gas
said VAT had been included  but no VAT registration number was provided on the invoice.
Ref: DRN10710252After pointing this out, Mr and Mrs S then provided  a copy without VAT added.
Mr and Mrs S also provided a copy of their bank statement,  showing a payment to the same
flooring company of £1,660 on 8 February 2018 (which is less than the amount on the
invoice). They said the work was carried out over several days  in week commencing
12 February 2018, which is why the invoice is dated  15 February  2018.  "That invoice was
sent in line with an earlier quote  which proved to be more than the final payment due to less
flooring materials being  used. As ... [the contractor] was happy with the payment made we
didnt have any need to ask that he re-issue the invoice and until checking the payment I had
forgotten about  the small difference - apologies  for the confusion."
I cant disregard these discrepancies. However, having said that the complaint is not about
reimbursement for the amount on that invoice  but is about whether Mr and Mrs S had the
floor re-laid after the first leak.
Even disregarding the invoices provided,  there is evidence from Mr and Mrs Ss bank
statements that a payment  was made  to a flooring company in February  2018.  British Gas
has not provided any evidence that it did not have to pull up the floor again. Overall therefore
some compensation is warranted for that British Gas caused the pipe to leak again and the
trouble this caused to Mr and Mrs S, which I am satisfied involved some rework to the
flooring.
Mr and Mrs S have  provided an invoice for £250  for relaying the flooring and say more  work
is required. The invoice  is dated around six months after the leak was repaired and simply
says its for "flooring". There is no other evidence, aside from a photo showing some skirting
boards that had been removed of what else is required,  or of what work was done already  in
this invoice.
Having considered all the evidence available,  I consider that compensation of £250  to take
account of the cost of relaying the affected area of floor is reasonable.
Both parties  can provide evidence in response to this provisional decision if they do not
agree with this or have anything to add.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require  it to pay
Mr and Mrs S £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling
of their claim.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
evidence they want considered. 
Mr and Mrs S have  confirmed they accept  my provisional decision, however they also say 
that I mentioned compensation  but this is not reflected in the decision.  
They also say there has been another leak recently,  which was dealt with promptly  and 
professionally but they were  left with the impression that this leak was also avoidable if the 
previous repairs had been done properly. 
Ref: DRN10710253British Gas has not responded to my provisional  decision. 
findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision that I was satisfied  that some  work was required to relay 
the floor after the second leak but that the invoice  provided by Mr and Mrs S didnt establish 
what was done.  It was dated six months  after the leak, didnt provide any detail of the work 
done and simply  said it was for flooring. Given this, I therefore provisionally decided  that 
general compensation of £250 was appropriate to reflect the trouble caused to Mr and Mrs S 
and to include the work to relay the floor. As no new evidence has been  provided, I remain of 
the opinion that this is reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S have  said there has been another leak under the same floor but they are 
satisfied by the handling of those repairs. They say it was suggested that this leak was 
avoidable if the original leak had been repaired properly but there  is no evidence of that 
available to me and this has not been put to British  Gas yet as far as I am aware and so I am 
unable to make any finding about this in this decision. Mr and Mrs S can ask British Gas to 
address this if they wish and can revert to us if necessary. 
final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to pay
Mr and Mrs S £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling
of their claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1071025