K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that DJS (UK) Limited (trading as Piggybank)  was irresponsible to lend to 
him. He wants Piggybank  to refund remove the negative entries  from his credit file, pay him 
compensation and write off the outstanding  debt.  
background
Mr H took out four loans with Piggybank between October 2016 and August 2017. Loans 
one and two were repayable in one payment. Loans  three and four were repayable over a 
number of monthly instalments. Mr H repaid  loans one to three but a balance remains  on 
loan four. A summary  of Mr Hs borrowing is as follows:
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment  Date Loan AmountMonthly  
Repayments
1 06/10/2016 02/11/2016 £325 1 @ £395
2 04/11/2016 27/02/2017 £360 1 @ £435
3 29/07/2017 30/08/2017 £195 1 @ £255
4 31/08/2017 N/A £700 4 @ £291
Piggybank didnt agree that it was irresponsible to lend. It said Mr H declared  his monthly net 
income to be £1,910.  Piggybank recorded monthly outgoings of £1,050. Piggybank  also 
carried out credit checks and included any undeclared credit commitments  as part of its 
affordability assessment.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld.  He thought Piggybanks  
checks went far enough before agreeing loans one and two. The adjudicator thought  that 
Piggybank shouldve asked some  more questions before agreeing loans three  and four. 
Based on the information Mr H gave Piggybank and the checks  it carried out, the adjudicator  
thought it was reasonable to agree loans one and two. The adjudicator thought  that even 
with better  checks,  loans  three and four wouldve still appeared affordable  for Mr H.
Mr H disagrees  with the adjudicators recommendation. He says he was dealing  with mental 
health issues and a gambling  addiction.  Mr H thinks that Piggybank  shouldve  realised  that 
he was struggling  financially after he wasnt  able to repay loan two on time and then didnt 
keep up with his repayment plan.
Mr H says he was regularly using  a revolving credit provider. Mr H says that if Piggybank  
had carried out proper checks before agreeing loan four, it wouldve seen that hed been  
made redundant. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators recommendation. 
Piggybank was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make sure Mr H could afford the 
loan repayments.  There wasnt a set list of checks that Piggybank  had to carry out. But the 
Ref: DRN14741222checks needed to be proportionate to things such as the amount of each repayment, the 
length of the agreement and any borrowing history.
Piggybank has told us about  the checks it did before giving Mr H each of the loans.  It asked 
him to provide  details of his income and monthly  outgoings, including any credit  
commitments. Piggybank  checked Mr Hs credit file to see what other loans were 
outstanding. It then factored in any undeclared credit commitments  into Mr Hs estimate  of 
expenditure.
loans one and two
As Mr H was expected  to repay the equivalent  of around 20% of his declared  net income 
each time,  I consider  a proportionate  check shouldve  included Piggybank asking about his 
living costs  and regular  credit commitments. Piggybank has given us evidence that it asked 
for this information.
From what  Mr H told Piggybank and what it saw on the credit searches, it looked  as though 
Mr H had a monthly disposable  income of £860.  
The credit check did show that Mr H had faced some limited problems in the past managing 
his debts. But, on balance, I dont think these were sufficient for me to expect the lender to 
have undertaken  additional checks,  or to have refused to lend to him. And Im satisfied that 
Piggybank included the undeclared credit commitments as part of its affordability 
assessment.
Based on what Piggybank  knew about  Mr H it looked like Mr H afford to repay loans one and 
two so I cant find it was wrong to agree  them.
loans three  and four
The adjudicator thought  that Piggybank shouldve done some additional checks before  
agreeing loans three and four. This was on the basis that even though  five months  had 
passed between  repaying loan two and applying for loan three,  Mr H had struggled to repay 
loan two.
By the time Mr H asked for loan three,  Piggybanks credit search didnt show any other 
outstanding short term loans. Mr H appeared to be up to date with his other  two relatively  
small credit commitments  
Almost six months had passed since Mr H had repaid loan two. I think it was reasonable of 
Piggybank to assume that Mr Hs financial situation  had improved in in this time. Im not 
persuaded that Piggybank  needed to ask about Mr H about his other short term loans  before  
agreeing loan three. However, even if Piggybank had asked about them, I dont think it 
wouldve made a difference.  This is because  Mr H was only due to repay one monthly  
instalment of £192 to a different short term lender. 
Mr H took out loan four immediately on repaying loan three and it was repayable over four 
months. I agree that it was reasonable to expect Piggybank to ask about  Mr Hs other short 
term lending commitments  to make sure he could  afford to keep up with his repayments  in a 
sustainable way. 
Ref: DRN14741223As Mr H doesnt appear to have had any other outstanding payday loans at the time of 
asking for loan four, I cant say that with better checks, Piggybank wouldve said no to his 
application.
I appreciate that Mr Hs situation was much worse than he told Piggybank. This seems to be 
largely due to a significant gambling addiction.
I dont want to downplay  Mr Hs problems  in any way, particularly as I can see that he was 
often spending  hundreds  of pounds online gambling  each day. But I dont think  Piggybank  
needed to go as far as trying to independently verify Mr Hs financial information by asking to 
see bank statements for example.   So unless  Mr H had disclosed his gambling problem, I 
cant say that Piggybank  wouldve found  out about  it with the proportionate checks  I think 
were reasonable.
Overall, I dont  consider  that Piggybank did anything wrong  in giving any of the loans to Mr H 
based on what it knew or shouldve known about  him. It follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
I understand that Mr H still owes money  on his final loan. Id encourage him to get in touch 
with Piggybank to discuss how it might  be repaid.  And Id remind Piggybank  of the need to 
continue to treat Mr H positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Mr H has asked whether the level of his debt is in line with the interest rate cap. I assume 
that Mr H is referring to the total cost cap that appears in the regulations  set down by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). In summary, the regulations say that a firm must not 
enter into an agreement  for high-cost short-term credit that provides for the payment by the 
borrower of one or more charges that, alone  or in combination with any other  charge under  
the agreement  or a connected agreement, exceed  or are capable of exceeding  the amount 
of credit provided under the agreement.
Mr H says that Piggybank  has told him that he owes £1,200 after making two payments of 
£100 each. As far as I can see this means that the interest and charges equal rather  than 
exceed the £700 Mr H borrowed. So I cant say that Piggybank has breached the FCA 
regulations as things  stand. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1474122