K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection policies (PPI).
The first was sold alongside a loan in 1997,was a regular premium  policy  and was in both Mr 
and Mrs Ms names. The second policy was taken out in 1998 and was also sold alongside a 
loan. This one was a single premium policy and only covered Mr M. 
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  the PPI on both occasions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
1997 sale
Mr and Mrs M say the policy was sold during a telephone call. Nationwide is unable to tell us 
how the policy was sold. I havent seen anything  which makes me think it wasnt sold during 
a telephone call. So Im satisfied to say it was. 
When selling  the policy to Mr and Mrs M, Nationwide  shouldve  made them  aware they had a 
choice about buying the policy.  Mr and Mrs M say they werent  made aware the PPI had 
been added  to their loan.  
I dont know what was said about the PPI in any discussions Mr and Mrs M had with 
Nationwide  there is no phone call recording or call script available.  And Nationwide hasnt 
been able to provide any paperwork from the sale  which  isnt unusual given how long ago 
this all happened. So Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Ms comments, alongside  sample 
copies of the loan agreement, which Nationwide has provided. Ive also thought about what 
we know about  how Nationwide sold this type of PPI to decide what  is more likely to have 
happened. 
From what  we know, Nationwide  normally made  it clear to its customers they had a choice 
about buying PPI and got their agreement  to it. Looking at the sample documents, this 
includes a sample  loan agreement and it has information about PPI such as the cost  listed  
separately to the loan itself. It also describes the cover as optional. I think this wouldve 
made applicants  aware they had a choice  in taking out the policy. 
So I think its more likely  Nationwide wouldve made  Mr and Mrs M aware  they had a choice 
about buying the PPI and  at the time - they chose to take it. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. So it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for them. But it did have to give them enough clear  information so that they could 
decide whether  or not to take it. 
Ref: DRN16885202Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Nationwide gave Mr and 
Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI 
- so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, it doesnt look they were affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Mr  and Mrs M say they had sick pay 
and redundancy  benefits  from their employers so they didnt need  the policy. But the PPI 
wouldve covered  their loan repayments  for 12 months if they lost their jobs and up to the 
term of the loan if either of them were too unwell to work. This would have paid out on top of 
any employee benefits they were entitled  to. 
From what  Mr and Mrs M have told me, it doesnt look like they had any other means  of 
meeting their loan repayments  such as savings,  so I think  it would  have been  useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put off Mr and Mrs M taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs M has lost out from anything Nationwide mightve done 
wrong. 
1998 sale
Mr and Mrs M say that this policy was also sold during  a telephone call with Nationwide.  
Nationwide say the policy was sold during a postal application and has provided a copy  of 
Mr and Mrs Ms loan application form and this includes references to returning the completed 
form by post. So Ive assessed  this sale as a postal one. 
Nationwide shouldve made sure Mr and Mrs M were aware the policy  was optional. Mr and 
Mrs M again  say they werent made aware the PPI had been added  to their loan. Ive looked 
at the copy of their application form, and on the form there is a section headed Protecting 
Your Repayments and it asks applicants to tick and sign whether they want PPI or not. On 
Mr and Mrs Ms form, the yes box has been  ticked and Mr M has signed the box. Nationwide 
has also provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms loan agreement. This includes information about  
PPI such as the cost  listed separately  to the loan itself. It also describes the cover as 
optional. 
I think the way the PPI was presented on the loan agreement Mr and Mrs M signed wouldve 
made it clear  that it was an optional product. So I think Nationwide  made  it clear  that Mr and 
Mrs M didnt  have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out.
Nationwide has said it also didnt recommend this PPI to Mr and Mrs M. So it didnt  have to 
check if it was suitable  for them. But it did have to give them  enough clear information  so 
that they could  decide  whether  it was right for them or not. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Nationwide gave Mr and 
Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI 
- so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time  as the policy  was in his name 
-  it doesnt  look he was affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.   Mr M 
says he had six months full and six months  half sick pay benefits  from his employer. Hes 
also said he had a full redundancy package if he was made unemployed. The policy  
wouldve paid out alongside his benefits. Again Mr and Mrs M didnt have any savings they 
Ref: DRN16885203couldve used to make  their repayments. So I think  it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong and Mr M was too unwell to work or was made redundant. 
The cost of the policy was shown  including the amount  of the premium, the interest  
payable on the premium and the total cost.  So I think Mr and Mrs M would have understood  
how much  the PPI would  cost if they kept the policy for its full term. And given how long the 
policy could have paid out for, if Mr and Mrs M made  a successful claim they couldve got 
back quite a bit more than they paid for it. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put off Mr and Mrs M taking out 
the cover. Which  means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
them.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs M have said, but for the reasons 
explained above these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1688520