K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that a car he was financing through an agreement with FCA Automotive 
Services UK Ltd (FCA) had an inherent  handbrake fault that caused his car to crash into 
another. Hed like FCA to reimburse the costs hes incurred as a result  of this issue.
background
Mr R took receipt of a new car in March 2017.  He financed the deal through  a two year hire 
purchase agreement  with FCA.
He says he had problems with the brakes from the beginning  and in August 2018 the 
handbrake failed and his car rolled into another vehicle. He had the handbrake fixed  by the 
dealership but shortly  afterwards he says the same thing happened  and he had to make  an 
insurance claim to fix the damage.  His finance agreement has now ended  but hed like FCA 
to reimburse the insurance excess he had to pay when making  a claim and other  
consequential losses.
FCA couldnt find any evidence of a fault with the handbrake. They asked a dealership to 
look at the car after it was repaired  but the dealership found no problem with the handbrake 
and FCA therefore  didnt think there was evidence to suggest  they were  responsible  for 
Mr Rs consequential losses.
But Mr R disagreed. He provided evidence from the garage whod repaired the accident  
damage and they said they thought the damage  was caused because  there  was an 
intermittent fault with the handbrake.  So he referred his complaint  to this service  and our 
adjudicator provided  her opinion.
She didnt  think there was sufficient evidence to suggest the car had an inherently  faulty  
handbrake. She spoke to the repair garage  but noted that whilst they had an opinion  the 
cars handbrake was faulty;  theyd  not completed a diagnostic. She thought  this had been  
done by the dealership and she was therefore more persuaded  by this evidence.  So she 
didnt think FCA needed to take any further  action.
But Mr R disagreed. He said that when his car first failed  hed taken a picture  to show  the 
handbrake was on when  it rolled  into the other  vehicle and he disputed what the dealership 
had now reported.  He said theyd told him there  was a fault with the handbrake and that it 
wasnt holding when  on a hill. So he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr R so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN11396372board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then FCA, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr R. The car here 
was brand new when supplied  so I wouldnt expect it to be faulty.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask FCA to put this right. 
But FCAs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst  they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a car developed  a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
But if the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the 
case. Here,  Ive not been persuaded by the evidence Mr R has provided that the car was 
faulty, or developing  a fault, when supplied.
Mr R says he reported faults with the brakes  to the dealership early on but Ive not been 
provided with any evidence that repairs took place. I can see that the handbrake was 
adjusted in September 2018 but this was a year and a half after Mr R had taken receipt of 
the car. Im persuaded the cars handbrake was most probably working well before that as I 
think its likely Mr R would have been  in regular contact  with the dealership  if it wasnt.  And 
Ive seen no record of regular contact.
I think its reasonable to suggest that a handbrake may require adjustment from time to time 
depending on usage. So I dont think the fact that the handbrake needed  adjustment  after 
this period of time is reflective  of a fault with the vehicle.
I can see that the presence  of an intermittent fault with the handbrake is disputed. Im more 
persuaded by the dealerships view that there  isnt evidence of a fault; than the repairers 
opinion. I say that because its clear  the repairer  didnt  perform any tests  on the car whilst 
the dealership  did. I understand that Mr R disputes  the dealerships current account  of the 
Ref: DRN11396373existence of a problem but as Ive mentioned above I dont think  a conclusion that the 
handbrake now has a fault would demonstrate that the fault was developing or inherent  at 
the point of supply. And as thats  the point at which FCA are responsible  for the quality of the 
car it would therefore  not be reasonable to ask them to take any further action here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1139637