K820x#14complaint
Mr M brings  this complaint on behalf  of his late mothers estate and with the consent of the 
executor of this estate.
He complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt tell him that they had written off a debt that his 
late mother had. Had he been aware of this, he wouldnt have paid off the debt. He wants  
Sainsburys to pay back the money that cleared the debt.
background
In September  2009, Mr Ms mother passed  away. At the time, she had a loan of £7,500 with 
Sainsburys. 
In October  2009, Sainsburys  wrote  to the estates  solicitors saying that £7,988.40 was owed 
to them.  
In May 2010, the solicitors sent a cheque to Sainsburys for the full amount owing. 
Sainsburys returned money to the solicitors in January 2013 saying that the loan had been  
overpaid. Mr M says that £230.30 was returned whereas Sainsburys say that it was £285.30 
in their final response letter dated  1 March 2019  (see below).
Sainsburys wrote  again in November 2018 saying that they shouldve applied a rebate to 
the account. They asked Mr M to complete  a bereavement form. 
In their letter dated 8 January 2019, Sainsburys  confirmed that they were paying back  
£1,416.53 which comprised £912.10  overpayment plus £504.43 interest (with tax deducted). 
Mr M says that getting these letters caused  him distress. He also says that, had Sainsburys 
told him at the time the loan was paid off about  these overpayments, it wouldve been easier 
for him. He says that he wouldnt  have taken  out as big a mortgage as he did to settle his 
late mothers estate. 
Mr M raised  a complaint. 
In their final response letter dated 1 March 2019, Sainsburys said that the debt had been 
written off in December 2009 but, when they had got the solicitors cheque, this was paid 
towards the outstanding balance and the account was closed. 
They apologised to Mr M for the distress that they had caused to him and offered him £100 
as a goodwill  payment.  But they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr M brought the complaint to us. He said that, had he known the debt had been written off, 
he wouldnt  have paid it off from his late mothers estate. He wanted  Sainsburys to refund 
him the money  that he had paid to clear the loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome so the complaint has now come  to me. 
Ref: DRN13041762my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr M wont be happy with my decision. I dont think  that Sainsburys should 
return the money they got to clear  Mr Ms late mothers loan.  I will explain why. 
I appreciate that Mr M went  through  a very tough  time when his mother  died  especially as 
he was still a teenager.  I can see that to have these  memories brought  up again by 
Sainsburys errors wouldve been  distressing and Im sorry for this.
For my decision, I need to consider  what effect Sainsburys actions have had on Mr Ms late 
mothers estate because  it was her loan and not Mr Ms. 
Although Sainsburys  say that they wrote off the debt, this doesnt mean that it was no longer 
owed by Mr Ms late mother. It still was and her estate was still liable to pay it. Writing off the 
debt simply meant that Sainsburys  wouldnt chase Mr Ms late mothers  estate for the 
money. But, when  the estates  solicitors sent a cheque  to clear the debt created by the loan, 
Sainsburys were entitled to take it. I cant see that they did anything wrong in doing this. 
I appreciate that Mr M says that he wouldnt have paid back  the money if he knew  that it had 
been written off. But I think that it is irrelevant whether Sainsburys wrote to him or not saying  
that the loan had been written off. As Ive said, the money was still owed regardless of the 
debt being written off. 
I have also considered the errors  that Sainsburys made which came to light in 2013 and 
2018. It is clear that these  were Sainsburys errors,  but I think that they acted fairly  and 
reasonably in trying to put them right. In particular, I think that the interest  that they paid in 
2019 is fair. 
I note that Mr M says that if hed had the money  that he had overpaid  for the loan, he 
wouldnt have had to borrow  as much as he did. I do appreciate this. But, as I said, Im 
considering the effect that these  mistakes had on the estate. And I think that, as the house 
was part of the estate, Sainsburys couldve asked the executors to sell it to pay off the debt. 
So, I think that the effect on the estate was minimal.  
In putting right these  errors, I think that Sainsburys  has put Mr M in the position that he 
wouldve been in had the errors not been  made. 
I do think that Sainsburys errors caused Mr M distress. I think that the £100 compensation 
offered as a goodwill  payment is fair in the circumstances. 
I know that this isnt the outcome that Mr M hoped for. I hope that Ive clearly explained the 
reasons for my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  Sainsburys Bank  Plc to do anything else other 
than to pay Mr M £100 if this hasnt  already  been done. 
Ref: DRN13041763Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1304176