K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc didnt check affordability before it 
allowed him to open  a student account with an overdraft  facility. He also says he was able to 
access his online banking  facility  without entering a PIN or password.
background
In November 2017 Mr J applied for and opened  a student account with NatWest. It gave him 
an interest free overdraft  of £2,000. Mr J said he already  had three student accounts with 
other banks  that were  overdrawn  when he applied for his account with NatWest. 
Mr J said after he was given his overdraft  he spent the money within  months. And he didnt 
pay any money into his account after it was opened.  NatWest said it wrote  to Mr J to ask him 
to make payments  into his account. It said that when Mr J was given his overdraft it 
expected him to regularly pay money  into the account. As NatWest didnt hear from Mr J it 
began its collection process to recover the outstanding balance on his account. 
In 2018, Mr J complained  to NatWest that it had acted irresponsibly when it opened his 
account and gave him an overdraft facility. He said he couldnt  afford  to repay  the overdraft 
and also said the bank didnt sufficiently assess his ability to repay it properly. NatWest didnt 
agree and said it hadnt made an error here.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with NatWests response and complained to this service.  When  our 
investigator looked into Mr Js complaint she didnt uphold  it. She didnt agree that NatWest 
had acted irresponsibly  by allowing  him to open the account or by providing him with an 
overdraft facility. And she also thought NatWest had properly assessed that Mr J had met its 
lending and affordability criteria before  it approved his application to open his account and 
gave him an overdraft facility. But Mr J disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  that Mr J will be disappointed with 
my decision  but having looked at all the information  Ive come to the same  conclusion as the 
investigator for very similar reasons. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Js frustration here. He feels NatWest shouldnt have let him open his 
student account in November 2017 because, at that time, he was a student and already had 
three similar accounts that were overdrawn. So, in looking at whats fair and reasonable Ive 
carefully considered  what Mr J and NatWest  have said here.
Our service cant question how NatWest decides  to operate its business.  Our role is to make 
sure it does so properly within the criteria  it sets out. It isnt for me to tell the bank what 
lending criteria they should use before agreeing  to lend to someone,  but they do need to 
make sure their checks are reasonable and proportionate to the lending. They also need  to 
check a customer can afford to repay any new borrowing in a sustainable manner.
The affordability checks a lender carries  out should be proportionate  to the size of the loan 
and the cost of repayment. But we cant say a lender shouldve done  any particular checks. 
It uses its lending criteria to come to its decision and its entitled to set those criteria using its 
Ref: DRN16329642commercial judgement. And it doesnt have to share  its criteria with us. Based on the 
information it had at the time of Mr Js application, NatWest  thought  the overdraft facility was 
affordable and granted Mr Js application.
NatWest said it carried  out its affordability  checks before agreeing to provide Mr J with a 
student account and overdraft facility.  It also said Mr Js application was assessed  by its 
specialist term, who accepted it because he met NatWests  lending  criteria. NatWest  knew  
Mr J was a second  year student because it had confirmed his student status with an external 
organisation. And NatWest said it looked at his personal circumstances, credit score and 
assessed information obtained  from credit  reference agencies. It also says it considered 
information about Mr Js income and expenditure,  account activity and management, internal 
lending history with the bank  and the overdraft amount.  And it said that this, alongside  Mr Js 
student status, allowed him to qualify for the full overdraft he requested. So, Im satisfied 
NatWest did enough  to check the affordability  of the overdraft facility  it gave Mr J.
I recognise Mr J feels NatWest acted irresponsibly when  it allowed him to open the student 
account. So, Ive considered whether it was irresponsible for the bank  to have given Mr J the 
overdraft facility. Irresponsible lending is not just about whether  he could afford to repay the 
credit or not  its whether  theres  another reason he shouldnt  have had the credit. And in Mr 
Js case, he feels he shouldnt have been given  the account and overdraft facility  because 
he was a student and already had three other  overdrawn student accounts. But lenders 
shouldnt refuse to open an account  just because someone is a student. They have 
designated accounts for those in full time education and NatWest opened a student account 
for Mr J, which I think was appropriate here. And while Mr J already had three accounts that 
were already  overdrawn NatWest didnt  know  about  them at the time he applied to open his 
account.
I know that Mr J feels that NatWest shouldve been aware that he had overdrafts with other 
banks before it approved his overdraft facility.  But I think it wouldve been  difficult for 
NatWest to get a true picture of how Mr J was managing his finances with other  banks when 
he applied  for his account because at that time his credit file would  only have shown another  
account, which had been opened  in August 2014.  
I understand that Mr J had opened two other accounts a week before he opened his 
account with NatWest. I think its unlikely these accounts wouldve shown  up on his credit file 
until much  later. NatWest  say, even now, Mr Js other accounts arent showing on his credit 
report. With this in mind, NatWest couldnt  have known about them unless Mr J had alerted  
NatWest to the fact that he had accounts elsewhere,  which he didnt do. So I think,  in view of 
the information NatWest had available,  its decision to give Mr J an overdraft facility was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Having decided to approve Mr Js application  for a student account with an overdraft facility  
Mr J was able to use it as and when he needed. But the terms and conditions  of Mr Js 
student account required him to use it as his main  account by depositing his wages or other  
regular income into it. So, when Mr J didnt pay any money into his account I think  it was 
reasonable for NatWest to ask him to repay the overdraft. I say this because NatWest  says it 
told Mr J about this condition and that it relied  on him to adhere to it. And I can also see that 
one of the terms and conditions  of Mr Js account  was that the overdraft was not for a fixed 
period of time and was repayable on demand. So, NatWest were  able to ask him to repay 
the full amount at any time. And, when it didnt  hear from him, I think  it acted reasonably in 
starting its collection process. 
Ref: DRN16329643Mr J didnt raise  issues  of affordability until 2018,  when  he made his complaint to NatWest. It 
seems likely to me that Mr Js complaint about  affordability may be more linked to Mr Js 
current financial situation rather  than his circumstances in 2017 when the account was 
opened. The available evidence indicates  that Mr J wanted and used the overdraft.  He knew  
what the overdraft  limit was and he kept his balance under  the limit. So Im not persuaded 
the overdraft was unaffordable to him.
Mr J says he cant afford to repay  the overdraft and I sympathise with the situation  he finds  
himself in. A bank has a responsibility for responding positively and sympathetically when it 
knows a customer is in financial difficulties.  It should try and understand a customers  
difficulties and it should act sensitively when  its dealing  with a vulnerable customer. But it 
can be difficult for a business  to pick up on these issues unless  the consumer tells it. I cant 
see that Mr J did anything  at the time of the application that wouldve alerted the bank  to any 
problems. And NatWest says Mr J didnt make  it aware that he was experiencing financial  
difficulties. For all those reasons, I dont think the bank acted irresponsibly when it opened 
his bank account and gave him the overdraft facility. 
If Mr J is now in financial difficulties he needs to contact NatWest  to give it an opportunity to 
help him. I cant see hes done this yet. Its now aware hes a vulnerable  customer  and I 
remind it of its obligation  to act sensitively, positively  and sympathetically towards him.
Finally, Mr J has complained that he was able to log onto his online banking without entering 
a PIN or password.  But NatWest said it isnt possible  to do so without using these details  
and a 10 digit customer number. Where there is a disagreement about what  happened, as 
there is here, I have  to base my decision on what I think is more likely to have happened in 
the circumstances, on balance of the evidence available. Ive given careful  consideration to 
what is being said here. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more  likely than not, 
on balance, that Mr J wouldnt  have  been  able to log on to his online  banking without the 
information NatWest  said hed need  because  of account security.  
So, based  on what Ive seen Im not persuaded that NatWest has done anything  wrong. So I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1632964