K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that CIS General Insurance Limited  has voided (cancelled  from the start) 
his motor insurance policy for misrepresentation (answering questions incorrectly). It has 
also declined to deal with his claim following an accident. 
background
Mr R made  a claim following  an accident.  Whilst investigating the claim CIS discovered that 
Mr R was the registered keeper of the car. During the purchase of the policy Mr R had said 
that his mother was the registered keeper. CIS said that it never wouldve offered a policy  
had it been told the true facts. It voided  the policy and returned all of the premiums  paid.  
Mr R felt hed made  an honest  mistake  and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said CIS had treated Mr R fairly  when it 
voided the policy and returned  the premiums. She said the relevant law allowed CIS to do 
this when a policyholder deliberately or recklessly gave the wrong information to a clear 
question. Mr R remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be passed  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what happened at the point of sale when  Mr R answered the questions  about 
the car. It isnt in dispute that Mr R was asked a question about  who was the registered 
keeper of the car. Its clearly documented on the CIS file about  the discussions that took 
place and Mr R accepts  that he is the registered  keeper. But its also clear that Mr R set the 
policy up noting his mother as the registered  keeper. Mr R admitted to CIS that he put his 
mother down as the registered keeper in an attempt  to get a cheaper policy.  Mr R felt this 
was an honest  mistake.
CIS has produced  details  of the criteria it follows when it considers new customers. The 
criteria it has provided clearly  shows  that if Mr R had told CIS the true details of him being  
the registered keeper it would never have offered him a policy in the first place.
CIS has referred to the appropriate  law - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and 
Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). The Act states a consumer has a duty to "take  
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation" when answering questions at the point 
when they buy or renew an insurance policy. If a consumer  doesnt take reasonable care 
and "misrepresents"  something, and that impacts on the policy,  an insurer might have a 
remedy against the consumer. But if the consumer took reasonable care then, even if there 
was a misrepresentation,  the insurer cant take any action against  the consumer. Its stuck  
with the contract  it entered into. 
Based on the facts  of this case Mr R knew he was the registered keeper and shouldve 
answered the question correctly. CIS has said the misrepresentation was careless rather  
than deliberate. This means CIS has voided  the policy and refunded the premiums to Mr R. 
CIS has effectively acted as if Mr R never had a CIS policy. I think  thats  fair and reasonable. 
Because the policy has been voided CIS wont deal with Mr Rs claim either. In the 
circumstances I think CIS has acted reasonably in not dealing with the claim.
Ref: DRN17617952my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against CIS General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1761795