K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mrs H payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened about  22 years ago when the 
PPI started. 
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case.
However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I dont have strong evidence to show  that Bank of Scotland failed to make  Mrs H aware the 
PPI was optional;  or that it didnt ensure that she freely chose  to take it. Mrs H has said I felt 
I had to take this. It not did feel optional.  But I of course was not there during the discussion, 
and dont know what exact words were  used, and how this was presented, and whether it 
could reasonably be seen as unfair pressure. It would not be fair, so many years later, for 
me to decide  the bank adviser acted wrongly in the way Mrs H remembers,  unless I had 
stronger supporting evidence. 
Bank of Scotland plc recommended the PPI to Mrs H, but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Being unable  to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the same 
time as Mrs H received  full employer sick pay, and potentially  for longer. It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time 
when she would need to fall back on her family  for help, which  she has said was her option. 
This all would have  put Mrs H in a more secure  position, if she eventually  lost income due to 
long term sickness or unemployment.  
Ref: DRN11135242Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland plc explained the costs and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway  think  full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mrs H took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland plc didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mrs H would have been  affected by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  5 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1113524