K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that NewDay Ltd acted irresponsibly when they gave him a credit card. And 
he says they shouldnt have let him exceed his credit limit. To put things right he wants  them 
to refund the interest  and charges that were applied, plus 8% statutory interest.
background
In May 2014  Mr A opened  a credit  card account  with NewDay. He exceeded the £300  credit 
limit they gave him in June 2014. And he hasnt made any payments  on the account since  
August 2014.  
NewDay applied monthly charges and interest  before  closing the account in March 2015 
when his balance  was £441.18. And in October  2016 they sold his debt a third party. I 
understand Mr A is now being pursued for a total debt of £635.29 in relation  to this account.
In April 2018 Mr A complained to NewDay. He said theyd acted irresponsibly when they 
gave him the credit  card. Hes explained  that he was on a low income and using payday 
loans to meet his financial commitments.  He also says he had defaulted on another account 
previously. So he thinks that NewDay should have realised he couldnt  afford  another  credit 
card.
Mr A is also upset that NewDay allowed him to exceed his credit limit, and applied additional 
charges to his account as a result. He doesnt think that its fair they allowed this to happen. 
And hes suggested that his NewDay credit card caused him further  financial  difficulty.
NewDay said that they had undertaken checks to make  sure Mr A met their requirements 
when he applied for a credit  card.  They also explained that it was the cardholders 
responsibility to make  sure that they didnt exceed their credit  limit. They said some  retailers  
confirm that there are available  funds in an account  at the time the cardholder makes a 
transaction, but dont actually request the payment until a later time. They didnt think  they 
could be held responsible if these payments then exceeded  Mr As credit  limit because  he 
had made  other purchases in the meantime.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr As complaint. They felt that his credit history  showed he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments  on the account. And that it was apparent this 
had been the case given  he had only made  a few payments to it. They asked NewDay  to 
refund Mr A all of the interest and charges  they had applied since  he took out the card, and 
amend his credit history to show the correct default  balance. They  also thought  they should 
pay him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
NewDay didnt accept  this decision. They said that Mr A met their lending criteria.  So the 
case was passed  to me to review.
Ref: DRN11192352my first provisional decision
I sent my first provisional decision to both parties  on 30 April 2019. A summary of my 
findings in it is as follows:
I noted that NewDay told us this credit  card is typically aimed at people who might 
struggle to get credit elsewhere,  and said they made  affordability checks  when Mr A 
applied for it. I explained  theyd  provided  us with a copy  of this data. And that it 
showed he had payday loans, but recorded that his credit file didnt show any 
arrears, defaults or County Court Judgements. NewDay also said that Mr As level of 
debt was not a concern to them given what  hed told them his annual  income  was.
I then explained  Mr A had provided  us with a copy of his credit report which  shows 
two defaults were recorded on his credit file, the most recent  on 28 May 2013. 
I said that NewDay had told us a history  of defaulted accounts  that have been  settled  
for more  than 12 months is in their lending appetite.
I also said I appreciated NewDay were entitled to make  policy  decisions about  who 
they lend money to. But I wasnt persuaded they had noticed  Mr As defaults  as the 
document theyd  provided detailed the number of defaults on his credit file as 0, and 
the time since his most recent default as 0. And I noted  it had been  less than 12 
months since one of the defaults  was applied. So I explained I thought  it would be fair 
for them to refund  him all of the interest  and charges that had been applied  to the 
credit card account  since it was opened.  I said I didnt think it was necessary for any 
statutory interest to be applied as I couldnt  see any evidence Mr A had paid any of 
the interest and charges to date.  But in order to put him back  in the position he would 
have been in if NewDay hadnt  given  him the credit card,   I thought NewDay  should 
also refund any fees or charges that had been applied to the debt by a third party. 
I noted Mr A had exceeded  his credit limit twice. But I said I could see both times 
Mr A had made a number  of transactions over a short period. So I thought it was 
quite possible that earlier purchases he had made hadnt been processed by the 
retailers before he made subsequent ones. And I said it wouldnt be fair to hold 
NewDay responsible  for this. 
I considered the fact Mr A had suggested his NewDay credit card put him in further 
financial difficulty. But I said I could  see he hadnt paid any money to the account 
since August 2014, so I was satisfied he hadnt been  trying  to make  payments 
towards his debt with NewDay at the expense of other commitme nts. And I said I 
thought the £100 compensation awarded by our adjudicator was appropriate  to 
reflect the trouble and upset caused  by NewDay's  actions.
responses to my first provisional decision
Mr A responded to my provisional decision and said that he didnt have any further 
information hed like me to consider. 
NewDay responded and reiterated  that a credit  history of defaulted accounts that have  been  
settled for more than 12 months is within their lending appetite.  They said they had noticed 
the defaults on Mr As account. And they explained the way their system calculates  the time 
since a default  was applied is based on month,  not day. So the defaults wouldnt have been  
shown on their report as they were  more than 12 calendar months  old.
Ref: DRN11192353my second  provisional decision
I sent my second provisional decision to both parties on 12 July 2019.  A summary of my 
findings in it is as follows:
I accepted NewDays  position that they did notice the defaults on Mr As credit file. 
But I explained that Id looked  at his credit report and could see that neither of these 
defaults was settled when he made his application to them.  
I said I didnt think it was reasonable for NewDay to extend  new credit to Mr A whilst 
he had these outstanding debts without  asking for more  details about his income and 
expenditure. And that looking at his payment  history  it was clear this credit wasnt 
affordable for him. So I felt the award  I proposed in my first provisional decision was 
fair.
responses to my second provisional  decision
Mr A responded to my second provisional  decision and said that he agrees with it and 
doesnt have anything further  to add. 
NewDay havent responded to my second provisional decision  or an earlier email from our 
adjudicator. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has put forward any new information  at this point. So I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I made in my second provisional  decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
To put things right I require NewDay Ltd to refund Mr A the charges and interest that theyve 
applied to his credit card account since it was opened. And to reimburse him for any fees 
and charges that have been applied to this debt by third parties.  They should also pay him 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset their actions caused here. And amend his 
credit file to show the revised default  balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1119235