K822xcomplaint
Mrs Fs representative,  a Claims Management  Company  (CMC),  complains on her behalf 
that she and her late husband, Mr F, were given unsuitable investment advice by a 
predecessor business  of Barclays Bank  Plc.  
background 
In 1998, Mr and Mrs F met with an adviser  to discuss their finances after receiving Mr Fs 
pension  they had £144,000 available to invest. They were advised to repay  their debts in 
the sum of £84,000; buy a new car; boost their cash reserves by £20,000; and invest  the 
remaining funds in with profit  bonds  and to top up their existing Personal  Equity Plan (PEP) 
with £3,000. Sadly Mr F passed away the following year after being diagnosed with a 
terminal illness. 
In 2000, Mrs F met with an adviser again to discuss her finances   she had £179,121 
available to invest and was expecting another £15,000 making a total of £194,121.  She was 
advised to increase her cash reserve by £72,121, and invest  the remaining £122,000  by 
topping up her existing  ISA by £7,000, and investing  £85,000  in three with-profits  bonds. She 
also invested £30,000 in a discretionary managed portfolio which was deemed to be a 
medium risk investment.  
Mrs F is unhappy  as she feels the investments carry mostly  equities and properties, meaning 
that her capital was more  at risk than she was made  aware of. She was also going through  a 
difficult time and was in a vulnerable position  and doesnt feel the adviser took this into 
account.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought the complaint should  be 
partly upheld. In summary he said:
The 1998 advice  was unsuitable. 
Mr and Mrs Fs financial report explains that they wanted to invest  the majority of 
[their] capital in low or very low investments but that [they] were prepared  to consider 
£8,000 into PEPs  which  [Barclays Financial]  consider to be medium  risk. Given their 
circumstances at the time, theyd be unwilling to accept more risk than this. 
They were advised to invest £37,000 (roughly  62% of their remaining funds). Out of 
that around 78% was invested  in with-profit bonds,  and 22% being used to top up 
their PEPs.  
The investigator doesnt think investing in with-profit bonds that are made up of a 
significant portion  of equities  50% UK equities,  and 14% overseas equities  was 
suitable or fit for a low or very low attitude to risk. He thought this suggests  they were  
taking more risk than they were willing to. 
The 2000 advice  was suitable.  
Mrs F wanted  to maintain around £38,000 accessible in short term, very low risk 
accounts. [She was] happy to consider investing  £37,000 in a more medium  risk area 
and £85,000 in a low risk area.  
Mrs F wasnt willing to accept  any high risk investments, but she was willing  to accept  
part of her funds  in a medium  risk, and most  of her funds in low risk. 
As Mrs F had invested before, its likely she was willing  to accept a higher risk, than 
she was in 1998  and was happy  with some  of her funds being invested in medium 
risk products.  
She was also comfortable topping up her ISA as shed done it before. 
Ref: DRN14798932The bonds Mrs F invested in were  made  up of stocks and shares, government 
securities, property and cash which werent unsuitable. 
Given that overall 30% of her funds  were invested in medium risk funds,  including  the 
PEPs that shes previously repeatedly  invested  in, the advice wasnt unsuitable. 
The CMC accepted the investigators view only in relation to the 1998 advice. In due course  
it said that new evidence  had come to light that was likely to change the investigators mind  
about the 2000 advice,  relating  to undisclosed  Market Value Reduction (MVR) which  Mrs F 
didnt understand  or appreciate. It also felt that Mrs F was vulnerable at the time following 
her husbands  death  and this hadnt been taken into account by the adviser. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary he said:
There was no evidence that a MVR was applied  at the point of sale,  the MVR that 
applied was done after the sale. 
The information provided made  reasonably clear  that a MVR  which was uncommon 
in 2000 but became more common in 2001  might be applied  in the future. 
Hes not seen any evidence that Mrs F needed  short term access  to these funds, 
rather than long term access. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions, for much the same reasons. Im 
going to partly uphold this complaint.  
The complaint in relation to the 1998  advice has been upheld  by our investigator,  and 
redress recommended.  Neither Barclays, nor the CMC, seeks to challenge this. For the 
record I dont think the advice was suitable either  and I think  the redress recommended by 
the adjudicator  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite the CMCs submissions Im not 
persuaded that the 2000 recommendation  was unsuitable. 
It seems  to me that Mrs F was prepared to take a higher  risk than she would  usually  but 
not a high risk  with a limited portion of her funds set aside specifically for investment, and 
she was in a good position to do so. The higher risk was balanced against the lower risk 
investments she held. 
I appreciate that shed  lost her husband  not long before,  but I dont this meant that she was 
vulnerable in the way suggested by the CMC. And although Mrs F wasnt  necessarily an 
experienced investor, she wasnt without investment experience.  Therefore its likely  she 
was aware of the general risks involved.   
On balance I think its likely that she knew she had to take a greater risk following the death 
of her husband, possibly in order  to get more  out of her money. 
Ref: DRN14798933On the face of the evidence and on balance, Im not persuaded that she needed short  term 
access to these funds,  given her overall  financial position. 
I dont think the adviser necessarily needed  to cover  the consequences of accessing her 
funds short term, when  this wasnt relevant  to her, much  in the same way that I cant blame  
the adviser for not covering a multitude of options  and their consequences, because  they 
just werent relevant.  
I appreciate the points  made by the CMC about the MVR, but these  dont change  my 
decision. On balance, Im satisfied it was made  reasonably  clear  that these might  apply in 
the future.  As this is a complaint about the sale of the investment its not necessary for me to 
go into whether or not it was correct to apply the MVR. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs F 
as close to the position she would  probably now be in if she had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mrs F would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs F's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should  Barclays do?
To compensate Mrs F fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mrs F's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Barclays should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
With-Profits  
bondsmaturedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN14798934To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Barclays 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Barclays totals all those  payments and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting  
periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Mrs F wanted  to achieve  a reasonable return without risking any of her capital. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Mrs F's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mrs F would  have invested  only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Barclays Bank Plc should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Barclays Bank Plc should provide details  of its calculation to Mrs F in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1479893