K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that One Insurance Limited  didnt provide onward hire car when he 
sought assistance under the breakdown membership section of his car insurance policy.  
Hes also complained that it made mistakes by relying on a newer version  of his policy 
booklet which he wasnt provided with when he bought  the policy.  
background
Mr H bought his policy through  a comparison website in September  2018. The underwriter  
for the breakdown part of his policy is One Insurance. Mr Hs policy documents were 
available to him through an online portal. 
Mr H broke  down on a busy roundabout in January 2019 and he called for assistance. He 
said he was happy  with the actions  of the patrol agent. The agent  wasnt  able to repair Mr 
Hs car at the roadside. So Mr Hs car was recovered to a garage about  five minutes away 
from where hed broken  down. This was about  an hour away from Mr Hs home  address.  
Mr H said he was about halfway into his journey to the airport  for a weeks trip abroad.  Mr H 
said the agent told him he had basic cover. So cover wasnt available  for onward travel.  
Mr H didnt want to miss his flight.  So he said he had to make his own arrangements to hire 
a car to continue his journey to the airport. And as his trip was for a week,  he had to hire the 
car for a week as he couldnt return it any earlier. This cost Mr H £139.99. 
Mr H called One Insurance  the next day. He checked his policy  and believed  he was entitled 
to cover for a hire car for onward travel. But he said One Insurance incorrectly  relied on 
policy wording from a later version. One Insurance said its decision  was correct. As it had 
arranged recovery for Mr H, it had acted correctly. Mr H complained. 
In February 2019  One Insurance didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.  But as a goodwill gesture, it 
offered to pay Mr H the equivalent of two days car hire at the rate it would usually pay. This 
came to £33.58.  And it told him it would upgrade his cover from basic. 
One Insurance told our investigator  that Mr H would have been  provided with the relevant 
policy booklet through his online portal.  The booklet it relied on was dated July 2018.  It said 
this was the booklet Mr H would  have  received. 
One Insurance said that when Mr H bought the policy, there was a disclaimer  saying it could 
change the contract  terms without  notice or liability in any event. 
The investigator thought that there  were  small differences in the wording of the booklets. But 
she thought One Insurance  had acted reasonably. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said he doesnt  have  any qualms about  the disclaimer.  His complaint 
is that One Insurance made mistakes. He said agents he spoke to referred to wording from a 
January 2019  booklet. But when One Insurance  replied to his complaint, it referred to the 
July 2018 policy booklet. He said the wording is very different in the May 2018  booklet and 
the July 2018 booklet.
Ref: DRN17706162As he bought his policy to start in October 2018, he believes  he should have had the booklet 
from July 2018  (which is what One Insurance says happened) but Mr Hs version  was the 
May 2018 booklet. So One Insurance made a mistake here. 
Mr H said if hed received  the correct  version for his policy when he bought it, he wouldnt 
have a dispute. He said he would have  had 14 days to read the policy and if unhappy, could 
have cancelled it without  penalty. 
Mr H wants One Insurance  to cover his rental costs due to the errors  it made.  He said when 
he accessed his documents  through the portal in February 2019 they still showed the May 
2018 booklet. It was only after he complained that he said they were updated. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
Ive considered whether the fact that One Insurance relied on a different version  of the policy  
booklet to the version Mr H relied  on meant his claim would have been treated differently. I 
dont think it would have  and Ill explain why. 
One Insurance said Mr H has basic breakdown membership cover.  The May 2018 policy 
booklet  which Mr H relied on - says:
If repairs  cannot be successfully carried out at the scene of the breakdown then we 
will pay the cost of recovery  of the vehicle, driver,  and up to 4 passengers  to the 
nearest suitable  garage able to affect  a repair or recovery to your onward destination, 
or home address (whichever is nearer and within a maximum radius  of 10 miles from 
the location of the breakdown). Any distance  over 10 miles will be charged  at £3.00 
per mile; this must  be paid in advance to the rescue - this will only apply  to those on 
the basic breakdown  membership.
The July 2018  policy says the same  but after rescue it says instead this must be paid in 
advance to the rescue.
The patrol agent arranged for Mr Hs car to be recovered to a local garage. The alternatives  
were to recover Mr H to his home  address or recover his car to an onward  destination.  Any 
distance above 10 miles Mr H would have been  subject  to paying a mileage  fee. Given  his 
circumstances, I can understand why Mr Hs car was recovered to a nearby garage.  Mr H 
said his car was repaired there and ready  for him to collect on his return from his trip. 
Under both policies, they go on to say if the agent cant  fix his car at the roadside within an 
agreed reasonable period  then it will offer Mr H one of the following options  whichever One 
Insurance deems suitable: 
The July 2018  policy reads: 
1: The cost of alternative  road or rail travel for the driver and up to 4 passengers 
limited to £100.00 per person from the scene of the breakdown to one destination 
within the territorial limits  stated in this cover, plus a return journey for one person to 
collect the vehicle
Ref: DRN177061632: The recovery of the vehicle, the driver  and up to 4 passengers to any one 
destination within the territorial limits  stated in this cover or;
3 The cost of a suitable hire vehicle to transport you to one destination  within the 
territorial limits stated in this cover, plus a suitable  hire vehicle to return you to collect  
your vehicle if it cannot be recovered  at the time of the breakdown  up to a maximum 
of £100.00.
Under the version Mr H has, the options  vary slightly. But it reads  hes entitled to one of the 
options: the key option  which he used under the policy remains the same. 
3. The recovery of the vehicle, the driver and up to 4 passengers to any one 
destination within the Territorial Limits  under Sub Section A.
So even though there are slight differences in the wording, I dont think  it makes a difference 
to how One Insurance dealt with Mr Hs claim. The crux of Mr Hs complaint was that he 
wasnt offered the option of a hire car for onward travel - in addition to recovery. He believes 
this is because One Insurance quoted from the wrong policy booklet. 
But the issue is Mr H was only entitled  to one of the options. As his car was recovered  to a 
garage, I think Mr H was treated fairly and in line with the policy. The circumstances of 
Mr Hs claim means  that the policy wording   under both Mr Hs version and One 
Insurances versions - didnt change the outcome of his claim because the relevant part is 
the same. 
Where we find an insurer has made a mistake, we would look at what  it did to put things 
right. So even if One Insurance hadnt  offered Mr H onward hire car when it should have, I 
think what its offered as goodwill gesture is within the range of reasonable to put things right. 
One Insurance said it will reimburse Mr H £33.58 toward the hire car costs  he paid. This is at 
their rate of £13.99 a day. It doesnt have to contribute anything toward Mr Hs hire car costs  
as it isnt covered  under  the policy. And in any event,  the most  it would  cover  is 48 hours 
under the policy.  The fact that Mr H had to hire the car for a week  isnt something I can hold 
One Insurance responsible for. The timing of the breakdown was unfortunate for Mr H. The 
difference in the amount  Mr H paid for two days and the amount One Insurance is 
reimbursing him for is £6. I understand One Insurance also offered to upgrade Mr Hs level 
of cover from basic at no additional cost.  
I understand Mr H is unhappy  that the versions  of his policy booklet that were available on 
his portal  - and that One Insurance  referred  to - were different to the one he had. He does 
however say that he doesnt have an issue with the disclaimer  under which  One Insurance 
says it can change the contract  terms without notice or liability.  
But in this case, I dont think the differences in the booklet show that the version Mr H was 
relying on  or the July 2018 policy - provided  him with an additional option of onward travel  
as he understood.  I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed with my decision. But I think  One 
Insurance dealt  with his claim fairly  and in line with the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint, save  
for One Insurance  to upgrade his level of cover and pay him £33.58  toward the hire car costs 
(if it hasnt already  done so) as it originally offered.
Ref: DRN17706164Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1770616