K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr P are unhappy with Aviva  Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling of a claim they 
made under their buildings insurance policy.
background
In mid-July 2018, Mrs and Mr Ps property was damaged by an earthquake. As a result, they
lost a number  of roof tiles and suffered damage to some of the external walls. The porch  and 
some sections of the guttering were  also damaged by the falling tiles. Mrs and Mr P say 
Aviva delayed sending  out experts  to inspect their roof, which, along  with other parts  of their 
property was further damaged by bad weather ten days after the earthquake.
Aviva sent a representative to the property  on 30 July 2018, to meet with Mrs and Mr Ps 
roofer. It made an interim payment of £1,655 for works needed  to make the property safe.
Avivas surveyor  visited  the property at the start of August. They  noted the fallen roof tiles
had been removed, so they couldnt  comment on their condition before the earthquake
occurred but said the tile battens appeared to be in a reasonable condition.  They said the
porch appeared to have moved  from the main  property,  but there were signs of historic
movement as there was fresh mortar in the gap.
Mrs and Mr P remained concerned about the length of time their roof had been damaged,  so
instructed their roofer to make the roof safe.  Aviva sent a structural engineer  to the property
in September  2018. The engineer  noted  they didnt have the opportunity  to inspect the
condition of the original roof tiles or supporting battens as theyd been removed, but thought
the roof was reaching the end of its natural life. However, they estimated the cost of repairs
to the roof would have been  in the region of £7,000 plus VAT.
Aviva declined Mrs and Mr Ps claim.  It said the damage to the roof had primarily occurred
because it was at the end of its natural life and in a poor state of repair. It said photographs
provided show there was no felt membrane  under the tiles. Aviva says this indicated the roof
hadnt been replaced during the past 60 years.
Aviva said more recent photographs of the house  from the last few years showed  a chimney
had been removed and roof tiles had been replaced  to the hipped  roof area. These areas  
had withstood  the earthquake. This supported its view the roof had reached the end of its
natural life. However, Aviva accepted its handling of the claim had been subject to delays
and offered Mrs and Mr P £350 in respect  of this.
Unhappy with both Avivas decision to decline the claim and their handling of it, Mrs and Mr 
P referred  their complaint  to this service. Our investigator considered  all the information  and
recommended Aviva  settle  the claim in line with the policy terms. 
He said Mrs and Mr Ps roofer  had inspected the roof before the earthquake and said it was 
in a serviceable state. On this basis, Aviva hadnt  sufficiently demonstrated the claim could 
be declined  under the wear and tear exclusion. Aviva didnt agree so this matter has been 
passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 July 2020. My provisional findings  said:
Ref: DRN14674422Aviva is looking  to decline Mrs and Mr Ps claim on the basis it says the roof had reached 
the end of its natural life. Specifically, its looking to rely on this clause of the policy terms 
and conditions:
Uninsured risks - loss or damage caused  by...
(a) wear and tear or loss of value and the cost of maintenance or routine
decoration"
In order for me to conclude Aviva is entitled  to decline Mrs and Mr Ps claim,  I need to be
satisfied its applied the policy terms fairly.
During this claim there have been disagreements  about the condition of Mrs and Mr Ps roof.
However, there are a couple  of issues  that are not in dispute.  Firstly,  its not in dispute  that
an insured event occurred. Secondly, its not in dispute that Aviva could have handled this
claim better. It delayed  sending out experts to inspect the roof as soon as the damage
occurred.
Aviva sent two experts to inspect Mrs and Mr Ps property.  The surveyor, a couple of weeks
after the earthquake, inspected the roof beneath  tarpaulins placed by Mrs and Mr Ps roofer.
The surveyor wasnt able to assess the roof tiles as they had been removed. He noted the
tile battens appeared to be in reasonable condition.  In the circumstances, and following the
heavy rainfall after the earthquake, I think Mr and Mr P had little option but to instruct their
roofer to make the roof watertight. I understand Aviva has made a payment in respect of
these works.  This seems a reasonable outcome in the circumstances and I dont intend to
direct Aviva to make any further payments in respect of the emergency roof repair.
During the time between the first and second  inspection, Mrs and Mr P grew  increasingly
concerned and asked their roofer to carry out the repairs to the roof. After  these  had been
completed, Avivas  structural  engineer visited the property. He noted  there  were  three  main
areas of damage  to Mrs and Mr Ps property. The areas of damage  were the duo pitched
roof, wall tiles and the porch. Mrs and Mr Ps roofer also noted damage to guttering at the
back of the house.  Ill address each unresolved part of the claim separately.
the roof
After inspecting the roof, the structural engineer said as the repairs had been completed, he
wasnt able to inspect  the tiles or supporting battens from the duo-pitched roof as theyd
been removed.  He noted the repairs included the supply and installation of a new underlying
membrane, battens  and roof tiles. He noted the hipped roof on the more recent extension
was undamaged and the roof tiles were in place.  He also said he hadnt noted significant
damage or tile slippage  apparent on adjoining  houses.
Aviva says the absence  of felt membrane in the roof indicated  it had to be at least  60 years
old, at the end of its natural life and therefore  was likely in need  of maintenance. It said the
newer part of the roof withstood the damage from the earthquake, as it would expect a roof
to do so. In its final response  letter, Aviva  said that the deterioration of the roof meant  that it
would inevitably have  been damaged sooner or later. These are its primary reasons for
declining the claim.
Mrs and Mr Ps roofer says there  was extensive  damage to the battens where the roof tiles
had slipped, meaning it was not possible to carry out a lasting and effective repair  without
complete removal and replacement of the batons.  However, before the earthquake, the
Ref: DRN14674423roofer considered  the roof was in a serviceable state, despite the tiles being  identified as
old peg type, without  any fixings.
I agree  the evidence  is finely  balanced  here. Im of the view the evidence from Aviva
indicates its reasonable to expect a roof should  withstand such  a low magnitude
earthquake. And the fact the hipped roof was undamaged adds weight to the argument the
duo pitched roof was likely to need some  repair at the time of the earthquake.
This is demonstrated by the engineers photos of mortar  repair to the tiles. Aviva  has
suggested these  tiles should  either have nibs on the underside  which would hang over the
batons, or, free from nibs and being  fixed through the holes at the top of tile by either
wooden pegs of metal pins. It says the photographs show  a combination  of tiles with no nibs
and wooden pegs  in evidence, and some  with nibs and older metal fixings.
However, I am persuaded, given the apparent lifespan of the roof (in excess  of 60 years) it is
possible some  of the original fittings might well have deteriorated during this time. I think  this
is supported by the fact the earthquake was of a low magnitude and a letter  Mrs P has
provided relating  to her neighbours property concluded it didnt show damage consistent
with an earthquake  having occurred.
Its also accepted  the areas of the roof more recently retiled withstood the earthquake while
the main roof suffered  such significant  damage. I think  this, in itself,  is persuasive the main
roof was likely in need of some maintenance. In light of this evidence Im not intending to
reach the same conclusion as our investigator and direct Aviva  to settle the claim in full, in
line with the policy terms.
However, while I dont  consider the claim should be settled  in full, I dont consider Aviva  has
done enough to demonstrate it should  be declined  in its entirety  either. I say this because it
didnt arrange  for an inspection  to take place for some time after the earthquake. The impact
of this delay meant its experts didnt inspect the property immediately after the earthquake.
As a result, its had to reach its conclusions based  on inspections  that took place after
interim and full repairs had been carried out. It was in control of when the inspections should
have taken place.  It was clear Mrs and Mr P were keen for their property to be inspected  as
soon as possible because  they were so concerned  about the state  of the roof.
Mrs and Mr Ps roofer say the roof was serviceable before the earthquake. While I
appreciate he was the last person to carry out an inspection on the roof before  the
earthquake, I dont  think these comments alone are sufficient for me to say that Aviva ought
to settle this part of the claim in full.
Overall, I consider a fair and reasonable conclusion here would be for Aviva to make  a total
of 50% contribution towards the costs Mrs and Mr P have paid for the duo-pitched roof, less
any payments its already  made towards for the roof repair.
the guttering
The expert reports from Aviva have remained silent on the issue  of the guttering,  but the
estimate from Mrs and Mr Ps roofer, along with their description of the damage, indicates
that it was likely the damage was caused by falling roof tiles.
The damage occurred  as a result  of an insured event.  And Ive not been  provided with any
Ref: DRN14674424evidence to suggest the guttering was in a poor state or in need  of maintenance. Im
intending to direct Aviva to settle this part of the claim in full.
the porch
Avivas structural  engineer found  the supporting post for the porch  was leaning outwards,
and the end result was that the porch  roof structure  had rotated away  from the house. They
noted the timber post appeared to have suffered more movement than the porch roof, and
the surveyor noted evidence suggesting  the foundation for the supporting  post may have
been subject to historic  downwards movement.
In addition to this, the surveyor also noted  the joint between the porch roof and tiles on the
front elevation appeared to have  been  repaired in the past,  as there  was evidence of fresh
mortar in the gap.
Mrs and Mr Ps roofer hasnt made  any comments about the condition  of the porch, either
before or after the earthquake, beyond that it required repairing. It seems clear from the
evidence Ive been provided  with there  was some historic damage  to the porch  before the
earthquake occurred,  but some of the separation was caused by the earthquake.
The comments from the engineers report are persuasive in setting out there was evidence
of a number of historic  repairs to the porch, as well as indications of historic  downward
movement. As a result, Im more  persuaded by Avivas argument that any damage  to the
porch was likely as a result of gradual deterioration.  So, Im not intending to direct Aviva  to
settle this part of Mrs and Mr Ps claim.
the external walls
Aviva has declined the claim for the wall damage. Its engineer noted the tiles that are hung
appear to be in an uneven and poor condition, with a number of historic  repairs  made. It also
noted that more  recently replaced  tiles had readily  withstood the earthquake, and there was
no evidence of the wall beneath the tiles being  damaged.
Mrs and Mr Ps roofer hasnt made  any comments about the condition  of the wall tiles, either
before or after the earthquake, beyond that they required  repairing. The comments from the
engineers report  are persuasive  in setting out that there was evidence  of a number of
historic repairs.  As a result, Im persuaded  by Avivas argument  that any damage to the wall
was likely as a result of gradual deterioration. So, Im not intending to direct  Aviva to settle
this part of Mrs and Mr Ps claim.
Avivas handling  of the claim
Aviva has already acknowledged  that its handling of the claim wasnt at the level Mrs and Mr
P ought to have  been better. It delayed sending out contractors to inspect the property and
says there  was a further delay in letting  Mrs and Mr P know  of the outcome of their claim.  It
has paid £350  in respect of this.
Based on the information Ive been provided  with, I think  the compensation payment Aviva
has made is a fair reflection of the trouble and upset Mrs and Mr P have experienced. Im not
intending to direct Aviva to increase  this.
Ref: DRN14674425Aviva said it thought the initial  visit was prompt and that the guttering was already displaced 
which was consistent  with the state of the property at the time and didnt think it had been  
damaged by any insured event. Aviva went on to say they thought the guttering  had already 
been displaced  by the contractor before  they were able to attend the property.  
Mrs and Mr P said they thought I ought  to have  specifically  commented on their point the 
property was damaged  both by an earthquake and a storm, which  necessitated the need for 
immediate repairs. They also thought I needed to give more consideration to causation. Mrs 
and Mr P also provided additional supporting  evidence from their roofer about the condition  
of the roof. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by addressing  the comments about  the storm. Aviva  has told us its treated the 
damage to the property  as one claim, the primary cause of which  it considered to be the 
earthquake. 
While its acknowledged there was further  damage  caused by bad weather, Avivas 
conclusion was there was one primary  insured  event, which  was an earthquake. Based on 
what Ive seen, the later damage was caused  not only by the bad weather but as a result  of 
the impact to the property as a result  of the earthquake. I think  Avivas conclusion to treat the 
entirety of the damage as one claim  is reasonable. 
Mrs P has also mentioned causation and said where there is more than one potential cause 
behind a claim, it needs to be decided which is the dominant cause of the damage. And that 
in assessing the dominant  cause of the damage, I should disregard any wear or tear that 
may have  been  present.
My role is not to decide under which peril or insured event  Aviva ought to consider the claim.  
Instead it is to decide  if I think  Aviva  handled  the claim fairly, in line with the policy terms and 
then reach  a conclusion I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Its accepted there was a delay in Aviva  sending an expert out to inspect the roof after the 
storm. I appreciate Mrs and Mr P needed  to take quick action. However, I dont think  this 
delay, in itself,  is a sufficient reason to direct  Aviva to cover  all damage to the property.
The information provided indicated this was a low magnitude earthquake. Ive also 
considered the policy  terms which exclude  damage caused by wear or tear, or a lack of 
maintenance. And Ive carefully considered  what Mrs and Mr P sent in response  to my 
provisional decision. They have provided further information from their roofer,  who now says 
the roof was in a good condition whereas previously he had said it was in a serviceable 
condition. 
While I acknowledge he was the person  who had most recently inspected the roof, Im 
mindful his account  of the roofs condition  has somewhat altered throughout the claim. I 
understand peoples recollections  can fade over time, and in this instance Im more  
persuaded by the information  provided  just after the damage occurred. Ive also considered 
the supporting  information Mrs and Mr P provided.
Ref: DRN14674426Mrs and Mr P provided evidence which they say supports that the earthquake caused wider  
damage to a neighbours property. However,  Ive looked at the documents theyve provided, 
and this specifically  says the damage  to their neighbours property was historic  and not 
caused by earthquake ground movement.  I dont agree this information supports Mrs and Mr 
P in the way they think it does. 
Mrs and Mr P have  also provided further  information to explain why they consider  Aviva 
should contribute towards the cost of repairing the porch and external walls.  Theyve said the 
porch was damaged by the falling  tiles. And in respect of the external walls, the tiles had 
historically been cemented to the walls which allowed no scope for building  movement. 
Ive considered these  comments, along with the information already provided.  But Ive 
reached the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision. Mrs and Mr Ps roofer 
hadnt provided any comments on the condition  of the porch or external walls, whereas the 
information from Avivas engineer indicated there  had been historic  attempts at repairs and 
they needed maintenance. Although Ive carefully thought about the evidence Mr and Mrs P 
have now provided,  in terms of their additional  comments, it hasnt persuaded me to reach  a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. 
Mrs and Mr P didnt  provide any specific comments in response to my finding about the 
guttering. Aviva did provide some  comments but hasnt provided me with anything evidence 
to support their view about the existing condition  of the guttering. Having considered  the 
matter again,  Im not intending to reach a different conclusion to that set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs P also asked  me to consider that given the nature of their property, the materials  
needed for the repairs and labour were likely to be expensive, which I have done  in reaching 
a conclusion I consider  to be fair in the circumstances. 
So, having  carefully considered all the available information again together with the new 
evidence provided  by Mrs and Mr P, I remain of the view the evidence from Aviva  indicates 
its reasonable to expect  a roof should  withstand  such a low magnitude  earthquake, as such 
its more likely the duo pitched roof was likely to need some repair at the time of the 
earthquake. 
However, Aviva delayed arranging an inspection and based its conclusion to decline the 
claim based entirely on later reports,  which indicated the roof had reached the end of its 
natural life and therefore needed  repair. In light of this, I remain  of the view that a fair 
conclusion here is a contribution towards the duo pitched roof as I set out in my provisional 
decision, and below.  
my final decision
I uphold Mrs and Mr Ps complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to settle Mrs and 
Mr Ps claim as below:
-Aviva  should reimburse  Mrs and Mr P a total 50% of the costs they incurred for the 
duo pitched roof repairs. Interest should  be added at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date the invoice was paid to the date of settlement 
Ref: DRN14674427-Aviva  should reimburse  Mrs and Mr P the costs  they incurred for replacing the 
guttering. Interest  should  be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date 
the invoice was paid to the date of settlement  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2020.
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman
If Aviva  Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs and Mr P how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mrs and Mr P a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1467442