K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs L bought  the policy  in May 2005  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. She applied 
for the mortgage  and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs L for accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £1,246.62 a month in the event of a 
successful claim. This was equivalent  to 133% of her monthly  mortgage  payment. At the 
time, it cost £74.05  a month. 
At the time,  Mrs L was employed  as an account manager. She has told us she was entitled 
to less than three months sick and redundancy pay and had savings of less than three  
months salary. Mrs L has said she had an operation some years before the sale. 
Bank of Scotland has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 
2005.
Mrs Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ls representative says:
Bank of Scotland failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ls 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bank of Scotland 
should have told Mrs L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bank of Scotland should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs L and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs L received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN14260652Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ls. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in May 2005 after the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So, the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result,  it is appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
Ref: DRN14260653The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Bank of Scotland, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So, 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Bank of Scotland was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 
when considering Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Bank  of Scotland gave advice, whether it advised Mrs L with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Bank of Scotland gave Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs L suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN14260654Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs L and Bank 
of Scotland,  Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs L know she had a choice?
Bank of Scotland had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Mrs L was provided a recommendation that she take out the PPI alongside life and critical 
illness cover.  She agreed to take out the PPI but declined to take life and critical illness. She 
was provided a quotation which set out the monthly cost and benefit of the PPI. She was 
sent a letter  confirming her application  had been accepted  and a further  letter to welcome 
her once the policy started. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs L knew the policy was optional and 
she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Bank of Scotland provide advice?
Both Bank of Scotland and Mrs L agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  Bank of Scotland had to advise Mrs L with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given her needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Bank  of Scotland took some steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs L. The adviser  had information about some of Mrs Ls financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mrs L had a need  for the policy  by 
asking questions about her wider  circumstances such as any health issues   I dont think it 
did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable.  This is because it didnt record that her 
employee benefits and other means had been discussed or explain why the policy  was 
suitable.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs L given her circumstances. 
So, Im not persuaded Bank  of Scotland advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mrs L, I do think its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs L met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs L had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Mrs Ls ability  to continue  to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Mrs L was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the employee benefits  and 
savings she says she would have been  entitled  to.
Ref: DRN14260655-Although Mrs L says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen  nothing  else 
to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs L. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ls employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs L has told us about 
having an operation some years before the PPI was taken out. But there  is nothing  to 
suggest there was an ongoing or recurring  underlying condition.  And if shed been 
symptom free and not consulted a doctor or received treatment for a condition in the 
24 months before making a claim, this would not have been  excluded. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness and unemployment,  it still provided useful cover given Mrs Ls 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Bank  of Scotland  gave Mrs L sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Bank of 
Scotland was recommending  to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs L was given a broad description  of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs L was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment). I have reached this conclusion  
because I think its unlikely Mrs L would  have taken out the policy  without any sense of what 
the policy was for. The quotation provided  to her clearly stated the monthly cost and benefit. 
So, I think shed have  known how much it cost, and what it would pay out on a monthly basis 
if she couldnt work.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Bank  of Scotland  gave 
sufficient information  about the exclusions or limitations before Mrs L agreed to take out the 
policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs L Im not persuaded Bank of 
Scotland did enough to present information  about  the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Bank  of Scotland  gave Mrs L all of 
the information she needed  about  the policy to make an informed decision about whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ls representative considers to be poor  
Ref: DRN14260656value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Bank  of Scotland  ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Bank of Scotlands shortcomings have on Mrs L? To what extent did 
Mrs L suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Bank of Scotland didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  
to Mrs L. So, I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mrs L suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide 
whether or not Mrs L would have still taken  out the policy,  had Bank  of Scotland done 
things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland took the steps it should  have done to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mrs L, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs L has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Bank of Scotland had explained things 
properly, Mrs L would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy  
in any event.
Mrs L says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs L had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Bank of Scotland  advised  her that there  was a 
suitable product  she could  buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she 
was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment, she concluded she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
Ref: DRN14260657As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ls circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs L was given about the cost and benefit  
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions werent as clear as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs L thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mrs L 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy, unless 
she had been  symptom free and not consulted a doctor or received treatment for the 
condition in the 24 months  prior to claiming; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs L 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs L be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt  as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs L from taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs L says she had an operation 
some years before taking out the policy, which suggests there may have been an underlying 
medical condition  that the policy may not have provided cover  for, I dont think  better 
information about this exclusion would have  put her off agreeing to it. I say this because the 
policy wouldve provided cover for any underlying condition as long as she had been 
symptom free and not consulted a doctor or received treatment for it in the 24 months before 
making a claim. And theres  nothing to suggest  the condition was ongoing or recurring. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs L might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs L 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs L, in her circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
Ref: DRN14260658If Mrs L had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar job or paid work which in the insurers view she might reasonably be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs L was unable  (through disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Bank of Scotland may not have told Mrs L that any claim she made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what she expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mrs L would have received full sick pay for, and her 
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs L would still have thought a policy that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs L be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs L would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs L was made  redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs L 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs L would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs L 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN14260659proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs L in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Bank  of Scotland should  pay Mrs L compensation, as that would 
put her in a better position than she would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs L thinks  Bank of Scotland misrepresented  the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Bank of Scotlands statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why 
Bank of Scotland failed to act fairly  and reasonably  was not because of what it did or didnt 
say in the information it provided  but because the overall information Bank of Scotland 
gave Mrs L, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet  the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2005  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Bank  of Scotland negligently misrepresented  the contract  to Mrs L and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Bank of Scotland  had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs L in a better position  than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1426065