K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains about the charges Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) Limited  (VWFS)  
asked her to pay to refurbish a car that shed handed back after ending  the finance 
agreement. 
background
In April 2015 Mrs B entered into a four year hire purchase agreement  for a used car with 
VWFS. And in May 2018 Mrs B decided she would  voluntarily terminate the agreement and 
hand the car back.
Arrangements were  made with a third party company acting for VWFS for the car to be 
inspected and then collected on the following  day. On the day of the inspection  Mrs B 
pointed out that there was a chip to the cars windscreen and the inspector recommended 
that she cancel  the collection and have  the windscreen repaired under her insurance as 
otherwise this would  be charged.
Mrs B called the third party company and asked  for the cars collection to be cancelled  and 
re-arranged to a later date. However, despite  this request, the collection  driver still attended  
Mrs Bs home to take the car. Mrs B says she was told she would be charged a missed 
collection fee if the car wasnt removed and the appointment  cancelled. She says she was 
also told that the chip on the windscreen  was too small  for her to be charged and would be 
considered as fair wear and tear. She reluctantly agreed for the car to be collected.
Mrs B received a refurbishment invoice from VWFS  in June  2019  for a total of £795.  The 
invoice set out that damage had been found  to the front and rear bumpers, on the left-hand 
front door, the left-hand rear quarter  panel and all four of the alloys. It also said that the 
windscreen required replacing.
Mrs B was unhappy at the amount being  charged  for refurbishing the car and she 
complained to VWFS. Mrs B said the charge for the windscreen was unfair  as she hadnt  
been provided with the opportunity to have this repaired under her insurance  and she 
challenged the charges  for the door and quarter  panel. 
VWFS said that the charges were  part of the terms and conditions of the agreement  and it 
was satisfied the damage found on the car was outside of fair and wear and tear and so was 
chargeable. It said it had passed Mrs Bs complaint about the collection going ahead,  even 
though she had cancelled it, to the third party company involved.  
Mrs B says she never received a response from the third party company.
Mrs B continued to challenge VWFS about refurbishment costs and the evidence it was 
relying on. She remained unhappy at its responses, and so complained to this service.  Mrs B 
said she thought  it would  be fair if all the refurbishment costs  were cancelled as VWFSs 
handling of her enquiries had been poor and had caused her unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mrs Bs complaint should be partially upheld. He said 
looking at the photos of the car taken at the time of the inspection he didnt think  there was 
sufficient evidence that there was damage  to the door of the car nor to one of the alloys. Our 
adjudicator said that both of these charges should  be deducted from the invoice.
Ref: DRN10633132Our adjudicator said that Mrs B had tried to cancel the cars collection in order  to have  the 
windscreen fixed under her insurance.  So it would be fair for the refurbishment  cost for this 
item to be reduced to what Mrs B would have had to pay as the windscreen excess charge 
under her insurance.  He said it hadnt been Mrs Bs fault her request hadnt been  passed to 
the collection driver.
Our adjudicator said that he thought VWFS should pay Mrs B £100 as compensation for the 
way it handled  the enquiries shed made about why the damage was chargeable. He said 
the responses Mrs B had received  from VWFS had been vague and it hadnt provided clear  
and detailed answers to the points she had raised. He also said that the third party company 
had been acting as VWFSs agent  when it had mishandled her collection cancellation 
request. Our adjudicator  said all of this had resulted in Mrs B suffering unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience.
Mrs B agreed with our adjudicators findings  but VWFS disagreed about the compensation 
award. It said it had responded promptly and appropriately to Mrs Bs enquiries  about the 
damage invoice  and so it didnt think compensation was fair. VWFS also said there was 
evidence that the fourth  alloy had been  damaged  beyond what was accepted as fair wear  
and tear and this should still be charged  to Mrs B.
However, VWFS said it agreed, as a gesture  of goodwill, to reduce the charge for the 
windscreen to the amount that would have been charged to Mrs B as her excess under her 
insurance policy. It also agreed that the charge for the door should be deducted.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B accepted the view of our adjudicator, but has said that in light of the length of time it 
has taken VWFS to respond to this service it would  now be fair to cancel all the outstanding 
charges. While I appreciate Mrs B frustration it isnt the role of this service to punish  
businesses for poor complaint handling as that isnt a regulated service. So the issues  for 
me to decide  are whether  the damage found  on the car was fairly charged  to Mrs B. And 
whether Mrs B was caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience  in the way the return of 
the car and the subsequent refurbishment invoice and her enquiries were  handled.
I dont think its disputed  that under the terms and conditions  of the hire purchase agreement  
Mrs B was responsible for keeping the car in good condition, and would be liable for 
refurbishment costs for any damage  sustained to the car that was considered outside fair 
wear and tear.
Ive also seen that VWFS sought to apply the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) guidelines  when looking at the condition  of the car when it was 
handed back. These guidelines set the industry standard  as to what damage would and 
wouldnt be considered  beyond fair wear  and tear. And so they provide a consistent 
approach to what damage is fair to be charged for when handing a car back  at the end of a 
financial agreement.  
Ref: DRN10633133Looking at these  guidelines I would agree that the damage to both bumpers and the quarter 
panel was beyond what would be classed as fair wear and tear. I think  it was fair for VWFS 
to charge Mrs B for these.
Ive seen that Mrs B always  disputed  the charge for paintwork on the door which  was 
described as discoloured  or faded  and was said to require blending. Mrs B also said she 
hadnt had the car re-sprayed so any fault with the paintwork would have been inherent 
rather than due to poor maintenance.  VWFS  had responded that it was considered to be 
unacceptable in condition but I cant see it provided any further details about why it would 
be chargeable.
Looking at the photo of the door I think Mrs B was right to challenge this, as I cant  see what 
damage there is and Im unclear why Mrs B would be liable for the paintwork in this area. 
Ive also seen that VWFS agreed, as a gesture of goodwill, to deduct  this amount when 
Mrs B brought her complaint to this service.  So I think its fair that this amount (£27) is 
deducted from the refurbishment  invoice. 
VWFS has also agreed that its fair for Mrs B to only be charged  the equivalent of her 
insurance windscreen excess for the chip to the windscreen. Looking at the photo  of the chip 
and the crack I can see they are clearly  visible  and are of a size where the windscreen 
requires replacing.  I think  its fair that Mrs B is responsible for the cost of this repair.  
However, the third party business has confirmed Mrs B requested  the collection of the car be 
cancelled the day before the car was due to be picked up and, although this request was 
passed on, it wasnt sent to the collection driver. Mrs B also says she was told she would 
incur a missed collection fee if the car wasnt  collected and so felt she had to agree to the 
car being taken.  Taking this into account, I think Mrs B would have been  able to arrange for 
the windscreen to have  been replaced  under  her insurance policy, paying only the excess  
charge. I agree  that once  Mrs B has provided  proof to VWFS as to the amount of the excess  
charge that the cost of the windscreen replacement on the invoice is reduced to match it.
Mrs B hasnt disputed the charges for three  of the alloys  and looking at the photos  Im 
satisfied there is sufficient evidence that the damage  was beyond fair wear and tear. The 
costs of refurbishing  the three tyres  should therefore  remain  on the invoice for Mrs B to pay.
Our adjudicator identified  one alloy that he didnt think had sustained  damage outside fair 
wear and tear. Looking  at the photo  I agree that its unclear  what is damage and what  is dirt 
from the road. And while  I accept there are scratches in different places around the tyre I 
dont think the total amount of damage  around the circumference of the wheel trim exceeds 
50mm, and so would be considered acceptable.  In light of that I think  its fair for the cost of 
one of the alloys (£36) to be deducted  from the invoice.
VWFS says it responded promptly  and appropriately  to Mrs Bs enquiries about the 
refurbishment charges.  While this service  cant award compensation for the way a business 
handles a complaint,  because  that isnt in our remit, I can look at how VWFS responded to 
Mrs Bs enquiries as to how the charges were being  justified  and what  evidence was being 
relied on. Ive seen  Mrs B requested clearer photos of the discoloured paint  issue on the 
door and that she had to chase this on more  than one occasion. And on looking  at the email 
exchanges between  Mrs B and VWFS  I agree with our adjudicator that the responses given 
by VWFS  were vague in places and would have  left Mrs B feeling frustrated that she couldnt  
properly challenge  the refurbishment  costs. Mrs B had raised  a number of points that werent  
addressed by VWFS.
Ref: DRN10633134VWFS is also responsible for the actions  of its agents and Mrs B was let down by the third 
party company over the cancellation of the cars  collection. This third party  company has 
never responded to Mrs Bs complaint over why request to cancel the collection of the car 
wasnt handled correctly.
So Im satisfied on the evidence that Ive seen that VWFS caused  Mrs B distress  and 
inconvenience with the way the arrangements to collect the car were handled and with the 
way it treated her enquiries about  the refurbishment charges. I think £100 compensation for 
Mrs B in these circumstances is reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im partially  upholding Mrs Bs complaint.  Im asking 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  to do the following:
Remove the cost for refurbishing the left-hand front door (£27) from the invoice
Remove the cost for refurbishing one of the alloy wheel (£36) from the invoice
Reduce the charge for replacing  the windscreen  to the amount Mrs B would have 
had to pay as her insurance  excess fee once Mrs B has provided proof of that 
amount
Pay Mrs B £100 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the 
way it handled  her enquiries  about these charge
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1063313