K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) hasnt reimbursed her for the cost of a 
report it required for a claim on her buildings insurance policy.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 26 July 2019, part of which is copied below:
Mrs B has a buildings insurance policy with UKI. She discovered an area of damp  in her 
property. She phoned UKI to make  a claim on her policy. She said UKI told her she would 
need to get a report showing  what the cause of the damp was. Mrs B went  ahead with this 
and provided UKI with a copy. 
The report, undertaken by a firm of structural engineers, said the damp was caused  by the 
failure of the damp proof course. UKI considered the report  but declined the claim explaining 
that there  was no cover  for that cause of damp.
Mrs B accepted she didnt  have  cover for the claim but asked UKI to refund the £180 she 
paid for the report. UKI said the policy terms and conditions made it clear  that she was 
responsible for providing evidence to support her claim and that the cost would be borne by 
her if the claim was declined.
Mrs B didnt think this was fair so she complained to UKI. Unhappy  with UKIs response she 
brought her complaint  to us. Our investigator said he thought UKI should have done more  to 
let Mrs B know  shed have to pay for the report if the claim was declined rather  than just 
relying on information in the terms and conditions. He also thought  UKI should reimburse 
Mrs B for the report. UKI disagreed and asked an ombudsman to make  a decision on the 
complaint.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im likely to reach  a 
different conclusion from the investigator. I realise  this will be disappointing for Mrs B so Ill 
explain my reasoning.
My role as an ombudsman is to consider all the evidence provided by both parties  and that 
includes the terms and conditions of a policy. Ill keep in mind relevant legislation  and what I 
consider to be common industry practice. I will also take into account  what  I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of that specific  case.  
Where the evidence is incomplete   as it is in this case   I will reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, what I think is more likely to have happened.  
Mrs B accepts that her claim  isnt covered by her policy, so theres  no need for me to make a 
decision on that. 
What I need to decide then is whether UKI did enough to let Mrs B know  all the relevant 
information at the time she first got in contact to make  the claim. And then, whether its more 
likely than not that Mrs B would have gone  ahead with the report  and therefore incurred 
the cost  independent of what UKI did or didnt tell her at the time.
Ref: DRN15629462UKI points  out that the terms  of the policy make  it clear  its Mrs Bs responsibility  to provide 
any evidence it asks her for to substantiate her claim and the cost will be borne by her: 
For any claim  you must: 
give us relevant information and evidence we ask for.  You will have to do this at 
your own expense.
Mrs B says she made an initial call to UKI to discuss making a claim and it asked her to 
provide a report confirming the cause of the damage so it could ascertain whether it was 
covered under the policy. UKI hasnt been able to supply a copy  or a transcript  of this call but 
it accepts it took place and that its likely  it would  have asked Mrs B to provide a report.  
Mrs B says she wasnt warned that she would have to bear the cost of the report and UKI 
has confirmed its not part of its claims process  to let consumers know this. So I think  its 
more likely that she wasnt  warned about  the possibility of being responsible for the cost.
The terms of the policy are clear that its the consumers responsibility to provide evidence to 
support the claim and this will be at their own expense. I am mindful though that this is 
detailed on the 35th page of the terms and conditions booklet.
It seems  to me that, as a matter of outstanding customer  service  something which the 
policy document claims UKI provides at all times  - it would  have been  helpful if it had drawn 
Mrs Bs attention to this when it asked her to obtain the report.  
But even if I felt UKI had failed to give Mrs B clear information, Im not persuaded it wouldve 
changed Mrs Bs decision  to proceed with a report anyway. 
Mrs B reported that the problem had been  discovered when gaps started  appearing beneath 
skirting boards particularly  at one gable elevation. She said during  some routine work on the 
house shed moved  some  furniture and discovered that it and the floor below were wet and 
there was a hole in the floorboards.
Mrs B says that if UKI had warned her the cost of the report would be borne  by her, she 
wouldnt have proceeded with it and incurred the expense.  I acknowledge this but am 
mindful that this was said after UKI had already declined the claim. So with the benefit  of 
knowing the outcome  of the claim, I can see how the cost incurred may have felt like an 
unnecessary expense.
But what  I need to consider is what Mrs B would have done when she still thought  the claim 
might be paid. So even  if UKI had explained to Mrs B that she would be responsible  for the 
cost of the report she would have had to decide whether to (1) incur  the cost in order to 
support her claim in the hope it would be covered or (2) not pursue the report  and accept 
that the claim wouldnt be covered.
It seems  to me that the cost of the report would  be relatively low in relation to the potential  
cost of the remedial work to resolve  the damp problems and damage to the floorboards  that 
Mrs B described. I accept that the exact cost of this wouldnt have been known at this stage 
but it seems to me more likely than not it would have far outweighed the cost of the report  
and that this would have  been obvious  to a lay person.  Because  of this, I think its more  likely 
than not that Mrs B would  still have gone ahead with the report   and incurred the expense   
in the hope that the claim would be covered.
Ref: DRN15629463Our investigator suggested Mrs B may have sought  the opinion of a local builder rather  than 
commissioning the engineers report. This is of course a possibility but Im not satisfied I can 
say with any degree of certainty that this would have provided  UKI with enough information 
to assess the claim or whether a builder wouldnt have made a charge for undertaking that 
kind of inspection.
So, in summary,  I think even if UKI could have done  more to provide  Mrs B with all the 
relevant information,  on the balance of probabilities, she would have proceeded with the 
report anyway. So I wont be asking UKI to do any more.
Mrs B responded saying  that UKI said she could get the report done  by anyone  and she 
engaged with a number  of local trades  people but they either didnt respond to her enquiries 
or failed  to turn up. She says this was why she employed the services  of the structural  
engineer. She also reiterated she didnt know the claim  wasnt going  to be covered until after 
she commissioned the report and shed been in contact with UKI before her call on 18 May.
UKI didnt  make any further  comments and accepted my provisional  decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B said UKI required a report as to the cause of the damp before it would consider her 
claim but it didnt specify who this report should be from.  So she tried to arrange one from 
local trades people  but none  of them were willing to undertake  the work. Because  of this, 
she decided to employ the services of the engineer.  
The apparent lack of cheaper alternatives  to the engineers report  reinforces  my conclusion  
shed more likely than not have gone ahead with the report  and incurred the fee - even if 
UKI warned her shed be liable for the cost.  I say this because, without  a report, she knew  
her claim wouldnt even  be considered.
I accept that Mrs B first got in contact  with UKI before 18 May but that doesnt change  my 
findings or have  an impact on my decision. 
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Mrs Bs new comments havent persuaded me to 
change my view so Im not going  to be upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN15629464My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1562946