K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about advice Ms N and Mr H received from an advisor representing 
Key Retirement Solutions Limited (KRS) about  taking  out an equity release mortgage. They 
wanted the money to carry out modifications to their home to accommodate  Ms Ns 
disability. They didnt  proceed with the application  after being dissatisfied  with the 
information the advisor captured from them about their circumstances. They also thought he 
failed to inform  them accurately about  the early  repayment charge (ERC) that the mortgage 
provider would apply  if they paid the loan off. To put things right, Ms N and Mr H seek a 
refund of the fee they paid and for KRS to pay for the modifications they need.
background 
KRS didnt uphold  the complaint; it said Ms N and Mr H had signed a declaration  saying the 
information the advisor has captured on the fact-find  (and which formed the basis  of his 
recommendation)  was  correct. KRS also said that the ERC  had been  set out correctly in the 
mortgage illustration,  and that the recommendation was consistent with their needs and 
priorities. KRS offered an ex-gratia payment of £139, the same amount as the fee Ms N and 
Mr H had paid for the advice.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint. He thought  KRSs  settlement offer was fair. 
Ms N and Mr H have  asked for the complaint to be reviewed. In doing  so, theyve provided a 
detailed analysis of what they regard as the omissions and fabrications in KRSs  
point-of -sale documentation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round. Ive done that, and Ive reached the same 
broad conclusion as the adjudicator.
If a business does something  wrong,  and a consumer  loses out as a result, then well look to 
award appropriate redress. Here, its not entirely clear what happened in the process by 
which KRSs advisor  completed the fact-find  and then issued his recommendation. Ms N and 
Mr H have pointed to substantial errors,  but if I take them on face value, it still invites the 
question of why they signed to say the information was correct.  
Ultimately, however, its a moot point  because Ms N and Mr H didnt proceed with the 
mortgage application; so they havent  acted to their detriment in reliance on any potential  
shortcomings on KRSs  part. I understand theyre  disappointed not to have the money they 
wanted to spend on their home, but that doesnt mean KRS has to fund the work they 
wanted to do. Once they decided  not to proceed  with the application  through KRS, it was up 
to Ms N and Mr H to decide  what alternative steps, if any, they might  take to achieve their 
objectives.
The loss Ms N and Mr H have suffered is the application fee of £139 they paid to KRS, and it 
offered to reimburse  them that sum in its final response in September 2018. Like the 
adjudicator, I think that was a fair offer and I dont find any reason to award  more.  Ms N and 
Ref: DRN12149102Mr H can still accept it by contacting KRS directly.  In the event that they do that, Id expect 
KRS to send them  the money  within four weeks of receiving their acceptance.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award  against Key Retirement Solutions Limited. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1214910