K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he tried to make a balance transfer with Virgin Money plc but it didnt go 
through. He says Virgin hasnt explained  why. And theyve withdrawn a previous offer of 
compensation. 
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 19 February 2019.  A copy of this is attached 
and forms part of this final decision. In my decision I set out why I thought  this complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. 
Both parties  have been given time to consider my provisional decision and respond with any 
comments and further information they would like me to consider. Virgin  said that they 
accept my provisional decision. Mr M has not responded.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any new information 
from the parties I see no reason to reach a different decision to the one I reached in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
If he chooses to accept it, Virgin Money plc should pay Mr M the £50 compensation they 
have offered him for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13850462copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr M complains that he tried to make a balance  transfer with Virgin  Money plc but it didnt  go through. 
He says Virgin hasnt explained why. And theyve withdrawn a previous offer of compensation. 
background
On 22 March  2018  Mr M attempted to make a balance  transfer of £600 from his credit card account 
with Virgin to an account with another bank. It didnt  go through, and the money was returned to his 
Virgin account  on 27 March 2018. 
Mr M complained to Virgin. Virgin said that they hadnt made an error, and he should  contact the other 
bank to find out why the money was returned. 
His other bank said they have no record of any attempted  payments. So Mr M isnt sure Virgin are 
telling him the truth. He says hes experienced  failed  balance transfers with them on three separate  
occasions now.  And Virgin  still havent told him why they werent successful. 
Mr M is frustrated that hes had to spend a lot of time speaking with Virgin and his other bank to try 
and get the issue resolved.  And hes upset that Virgin  have withdrawn  an offer of compensation. They 
offered him £50 as a gesture  of goodwill when  he explained hed incurred charges on his other 
account because the balance  transfer hadnt gone through.  Although he didnt  accept this initially he 
contacted them a couple of months  later to say hed like it. But Virgin said it wasnt available anymore. 
Virgin told our investigator that the balance  transfer had failed because  of the sort code that was 
used. Our investigator  agreed  and didnt think this was Virgins fault. Virgin also offered to pay Mr M 
the £50 compensation they initially offered  him for this complaint. And our investigator thought this 
was fair, because they hadnt looked into why his previous balance transfers had failed  before he 
attempted this one. 
Virgin have also offered to pay Mr M an additional £50 they offered him for a previous complaint 
which hes told us he didnt receive. 
Mr M is unhappy with Virgins  explanation  of what happened because he wasnt required  to input a 
sort code to make  the transfer. And he thinks Virgin should pay him a higher amount of 
compensation. So the case has been  passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I know Mr M will be disappointed, but I dont think  it would be fair 
to hold Virgin  responsible for his balance  transfer not being  successful. So I wont be asking them to 
increase their offer of compensation.
When reaching my decision  I havent  been able to consider the problems  Mr M tells us he 
experienced when trying to make balance  transfers from his Virgin account  on two previous 
occasions. I appreciate  that he has asked us to look into these transactions as well. However there 
are rules which set out when  this service can consider a complaint. One of those rules  says that, if a 
financial business doesnt consent,  we cant usually consider a complaint referred to us more  than six 
months after the date the business sent its final response letter. I understand Mr M complained  about 
his other failed bank transfers to Virgin previously, and Virgin have confirmed that both complaints 
were dealt with by them  more than 6 months before Mr M came to our service. As Virgin  havent given 
us consent to consider them, Im afraid I wont be able to look into the merit  of these complaints,  or 
give any consideration to these transactions in my decision. 
Ref: DRN13850463I can see that Mr M submitted a request for a balance  transfer of £600 at 11:44pm  on 22 March 2018. 
His credit card statement  shows a transaction of date of 23 March 2018.  Which  is what  I would expect 
to see as the request was made after the close of the working day. And I can see that the money  left 
his account on was 25 March 2018. Which  again I think is reasonable as the period was over a 
weekend. So Im satisfied that the money left Mr Ms credit card account promptly,  and there  wasnt 
any error in this respect.
However the funds were  returned to him two days later, on 27 March 2018. So clearly something went 
wrong. Virgin have told us that this was because the sort code of the receiving credit card account 
wasnt able to accept the payment. Mr M isnt happy  with this explanation as he wasnt  asked to enter 
a sort code when he tried to make the transfer. He only needed to provide  the credit card number he 
was trying to make the payment to.
I appreciate his frustration,  but Virgin have explained to us that when  a customer enters the credit 
card number for a balance transfer  their system completes a background check. It populates  the sort 
code and account number  of the credit card account. This information  is then used to make the 
payment. So Mr M wouldnt have had to provide  it. But without this information a payment cant be 
made.
Virgin have told us that they have a team  who check these numbers weekly,  and that they regularly 
update this information in their systems. Banks are responsible for ensuring  their own sort codes are 
valid. So the provider  of the recipient credit card account is responsible for whether  or not its sort 
code can accept  payments.
Virgins balance transfers are made using  the faster  payments service. Virgin have shown us 
evidence that confirms  the sort code for the credit card account Mr M was trying to make the payment 
to was not able to receive faster payments. Mr M has suggested he doesnt believe the sort code 
Virgin have referenced is the correct one for his account and has quoted us a different sort code.  But I 
believe the sort code he has given us relates to his bank account  with the other  bank, not his credit 
card account.  And I can see a successful  money transfer was made  to an account with the sort code 
he has quoted to us after his failed  balance transfers.  So I believe this other account  can accept faster 
payments.
The faster payments service  is commonly used by banks to make payments of this type. And its for 
Virgin to decide what process they use. So it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Virgin have made  an 
error here. They have followed their process correctly  and tried to make the payment. The fact the 
recipient sort code cannot accept a faster  payment  is not something Virgin  can influence. So I dont 
think Virgin are responsible for the balance  transfer not being  successful.
I appreciate Mr M isnt convinced Virgin are telling  the truth because his recipient bank say they have 
no record of any attempted payments. But I can confirm I have seen Virgins records which  clearly 
show his balance transfer being entered and then processed before the money  was returned to his 
account. And I can see from his credit card statement that the money  left his account.  So Im satisfied 
Virgins explanation is correct. I can also see that Mr M has been able to make other successful faster 
payments from his credit  card account to other accounts.  So again, Im confident the issue is not with 
Virgins services.
Virgin charge a fee for balance transfers.  I can see that they returned the fee paid by Mr M the same 
day his money  was returned to his account.  And theyve also shown us evidence that they sent an 
email to tell him his transfer had failed. So theyve done what I would expect  following  the failed 
transaction. They also helped him to make a money transfer to a different account to resolve his 
problems, charging him the same fee he would have paid had his balance  transfer been  successful. I 
think this was a reasonable  solution to help Mr M transfer his money.
I can see Virgin have offered  Mr M £50 compensation  for this complaint.  I understand this was 
intended as a goodwill gesture to cover  charges Mr M incurred with his other bank. I think this is fair 
Ref: DRN13850464and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Separate to this complaint,  I understand Virgin  have also said they are willing  to pay Mr M another 
£50 which they offered him after a previous complaint.  If he has not already done so I suggest  Mr M 
should contact Virgin if he wants to accept this.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint against Virgin  Money  plc. 
If he chooses to accept  it, Virgin Money plc should pay Mr M the £50 compensation they have offered 
him for this complaint.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1385046