K820x#14Complaint
Mr S and Mrs P complain  that Bank  of Scotland plcs (trading as Halifax) advice and 
administration led to them going into arrears on their mortgage and affected their ability  to 
obtain a better interest rate.
Background
Mr S says he had a mortgage with a friend and then transferred  to a mortgage with his wife  
Mrs P. This was with Mr Ss existing product, for approximately £395,000, on a repayment 
basis. He says at one point he held two mortgages  at the same time and was told by Halifax  
to cancel his direct debit  and pay manually.
I can see from a transaction statement that Mr S and Mrs P didnt make their contractual 
monthly payment  in January  2018,  leaving the account one month in arrears.                       
Mr S and Mrs P made a card payment of £100  at the end of January. But then Februarys 
scheduled direct  debit went uncollected.  The account remained in arrears until July 2018 
when Mr S and Mrs P made an additional  card payment equal to approximately  two months.
Mr S and Mrs P are concerned about  the effect this had on their credit  file, particularly as 
they wanted a new fixed rate deal in August/September 2018 and feel they didnt get the 
best possible rate. They  feel that they also couldnt  take out a credit  card because  of the 
effect on their credit  files.
Mr S and Mrs P raised several complaints to Halifax in 2018  relating to this series  of events. 
In response to January 2018s  complaint about  not being fully informed of the consequences 
of cancelling  the direct debit  for that months  payment,  Halifax said it should  have said they 
may receive  arrears letters or calls. It paid Mr S and Mrs P £100 as compensation for not 
saying that. In the letter, Halifax also confirmed  that no payment  for Mr Ss old mortgage had 
been taken in January.
In July 2018, Halifax responded to another complaint  acknowledging  that it could have 
collected the payment in February, but for a system error. It agreed to remove  the arrears 
marker for February 2018 from Mr S and Mrs Ps credit files and paid them £150 for the 
upset caused  and £2 to cover  the cost of phone calls.
Mr S and Mrs P contacted Halifax again in September, concerned  that their payment 
arrangement  contractual monthly payment plus £100  was not reducing  the arrears.  
Halifax confirmed that the arrears  were reducing at a rate of £100  per month. And it said it 
advised Mr S to make a payment  in January 2018, so it was responsible  for only one missed 
payment  the scheduled payment for February.
After bringing their complaint to this Service,  Mr S and Mrs P cleared their arrears  with an 
additional payment of approximately  £2,800  on 26 July 2018  and were  able to transfer to a 
rate of 2.54% with Halifax,  which started in August 2018.
Our investigator found that Mr S and Mrs P made no attempt to make  Februarys  payment, 
but Halifax acknowledged its error  in not collecting the direct debit. He said he thinks  Halifax  
arranging for the removal of the missed payment marker on Mr S and Mrs Ps credit file and 
Halifaxs payment to them of £152 was a fair resolution. But he said the late payment marker 
for January 2018 was correct.
Ref: DRN18549132Our investigator also said hed seen  that Mr S and Mrs Ps arrears  balance was reducing as 
expected, due to their payment arrangement. And he said not all the adverse credit  
information in relation  to Mr S and Mrs Ps mortgage was a result of Halifax errors.
Mr S and Mrs P disagreed saying they feel Halifax  is responsible  for the arrears  and 
shouldnt have taken  two payments in January 2018. So, their complaint has been referred 
to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
To reach my decision, Ive considered what errors Halifax made and whether its offered    
Mr S and Mrs P fair compensation  for those  errors.  Ive also considered  whether Halifaxs  
errors were the cause  of any difficulty Mr S and Mrs P may have experienced obtaining a 
new interest rate deal.
Mortgage payments  in January 2018
Since our investigator informed both parties  of his opinion, Mr S has told him he still feels  
that Halifax shouldnt  have charged him for both mortgages in January 2018. I can see from 
evidence provided  by Halifax that Mr S was told he may be charged for both mortgages  in 
January 2018.  And I can understand why this led him to be concerned  enough at the time to 
discuss the matter with Halifax. This led to the series of events that Ill comment on. But 
Halifax says Mr Ss previous mortgage was redeemed in December 2017 and the records  
Halifax has provided dont  show any payments  made after then on that mortgage. So, I dont 
think Mr S was charged for two different mortgages in January 2018.
Halifax has acknowledged that it told Mr S and Mrs P to cancel their direct debit if they didnt 
want their new payment to be taken  in early January 2018. While Mr S and Mrs P were told 
of the possible  effect  the cancellation  of the direct debit would have on their credit  files, they 
werent told that theyd  receive arrears letters or calls because of it. They  complained about 
that to Halifax. In its response letter of January 2018, Halifax apologised for that error and 
paid   Mr S and Mrs P £100 for the distress caused. I think that was a fair resolution  to that 
specific issue.
In its response letter,  Halifax says that, when discussing  the cancellation of the direct  debit, it 
agreed with Mr S and Mrs P that theyd  make Januarys payment on 26 January 2018.  As 
that letter was dated 18 January 2018, I think  it should  also have acted as a reminder  to     
Mr S and Mrs P that the full payment needed to be made. But Mr S and Mrs P were unable  
to make that payment (approximately  £1,800)  instead, they called  to make a payment  of 
£100 on 30 January 2018.  As the full monthly  payment wasnt  made for January, and this 
wasnt due to an error made by Halifax, I dont think its fair to ask the bank to remove the 
late payment marker on Mr S and Mrs Ps credit  files for January.
The mortgage payment due in February 2018
During the telephone conversation of 30 January 2018, Mr S arranged  for the payment date 
to be moved from the 1st of each month to the 28th, starting 28 February  2018.  And they 
Ref: DRN18549133arranged to pay their contractual monthly payment plus £100  each month  to repay  the 
missed payment from January.
In February 2018,  the scheduled payment wasnt collected. Mr S and Mrs P say they didnt 
know about that for several months and called Halifax to complain. In its response, Halifax 
acknowledged that it should  have  collected  the payment in February.  It paid Mr S and Mrs P 
£150 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused and a further £2 for the cost 
of the phone call. And it arranged for the correction of the missed payment marker for 
February on their credit  files. Ive thought about  whether this was sufficient to compensate  
them, given that their credit files showed  adverse credit information for some  months  after 
February 2018. Mr S and Mrs P say that it wasnt sufficient because Halifax  didnt inform 
them of the missing payment. They say they dont check their bank statements and had 
other things  going  on at the time, so they didnt notice  the missed  payment for February 
2018.
From the evidence available it doesnt  look like Halifax did inform  Mr S and Mrs P about the 
missed payment in February 2018 until it was mentioned during a phone call in July 2018. 
While I think Halifax  should have told Mr S and Mrs P about  the missed  payment much 
sooner, I think Mr S and Mrs P also have a responsibility to ensure  that payments are made  
to their mortgage. Mr S and Mrs P didnt fully make Januarys payment and Februarys 
payment was scheduled to be the first of a new arrangement. So, I think they should  have  
checked that they made Februarys payment to Halifax. 
Other adverse information  on Mr S and Mrs Ps credit files
Mr S and Mrs P say Halifax  should  arrange for the other adverse information on their credit 
files to be removed  in addition to Februarys missed payment  marker.  But I think the credit  
file should accurately reflect whats happened where Mr S and Mrs P share the responsibility 
for whats gone wrong. In this case, I think they share the responsibility for the arrears after 
February 2018  resulting from the underpayment  in January and the uncollected payment in 
February  and could  have  brought the account up to date in March  2018. As they didnt, I 
think their credit files from March 2018 accurately  reflect what  happened  and Halifax 
shouldnt arrange  for them to be changed.
New rate deal and credit card
Mr S and Mrs P have said they were unhappy that they may not be able to get a competitive 
new rate deal because of their arrears. Ive seen  that they paid-off their arrears and were 
transferred to a new rate in August  2018.  I cant say whether that wouldve been  the best 
rate available at the time, had they had no adverse information on their credit  file. But, in any 
event, I dont think Halifax was responsible  for all of the adverse information  on their credit  
file and I think it has removed the entry I would have  asked it to. So, I dont think  Halifax has 
prevented Mr S and Mrs P getting  a fair new rate deal.
As I dont think Halifax were responsible for all the adverse credit  information added to Mr S 
and Mrs Ps credit file in 2018, I cant conclude that Halifax were  the cause of any other 
failed credit applications. As Ive already said, I think Halifax has arranged to correct  Mr S 
and Mrs Ps credit file appropriately, so I wont be asking it to do any more in that regard.
Arrears reducing in line with the payment arrangement
Ref: DRN18549134I note that Mr S and Mrs P had also expressed  concern that their payment arrangement 
wasnt reducing the arrears. Its not clear whether they were ever reassured  to their 
satisfaction that their arrears were reducing in line with the arrangement.  But having  seen 
the transaction history before the point  at which they paid-off the arrears, Im satisfied that 
the arrears were reducing appropriately.  
Summary
Mr S and Mrs P complained that Halifax made numerous errors  in its administration  of their 
mortgage account in 2018. This has clearly  caused  them distress and a degree of 
inconvenience. But, where I agree that Halifax has made errors, I think  its compensated 
them adequately and arranged for the correction of their credit files appropriately. So, I dont  
require Halifax to take any further action  in relation to Mr S and Mrs Ps complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S and Mrs Ps complaint about Bank of Scotland 
plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 June  2020.
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1854913