K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the way Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS)  
handled the voluntary termination of a vehicle he was financing  through them.
background
Mr R took receipt of a new car in March 2016.  He financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS but some  time later he contacted them and told them he was in 
financial difficulties. They discussed his options  with him; one of which was for the 
dealership to sell the car on his behalf. But when the dealership confirmed they didnt want 
to sell the diesel vehicle Mr R opted to voluntarily  terminate (VT) the agreement.
He says he did this because he was angry and when his financial circumstances changed he 
enquired about  getting  the car back only to discover it had been sold by VWFS for what he 
believed was a profit. In resolution  of his complaint hed like VWFS to waive any outstanding  
finance as he said he tried to avoid voluntarily  terminating the deal but they didnt give him 
sufficient options.
VWFS explained that once a VT was signed it wasnt reversible so Mr R referred  his 
complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator said that when VWFS  were told about Mr Rs financial  difficulties  he would 
expect them to be sympathetic but they didnt have to reduce, suspend or refund fees.  He 
noted that VWFS had allowed  Mr R to make part payments for a time but explained that 
Mr R would need to then make a decision  on the way he wanted to settle  the agreement. He 
understood that they wouldnt consider other  financing options until much  later in the process 
and he thought this was reasonable. He discovered  that VWFS had sold the car for £13,700 
but explained that they would have recovered more than this if the agreement  had been 
allowed to run its remaining term. So he didnt think  VWFS had profited from the subsequent 
sale and he didnt think it would be fair to ask them to waive  the payments that were still 
outstanding on the agreement.
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicator and therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R but I agree with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN15449012When Mr R told VWFS about  his financial difficulties in 2018  I would expect  them to have 
been sympathetic  to his situation  and I think theres  evidence here that they were. They 
agreed reduced payments for a time and allowed some  breathing space. But when Mr Rs 
situation didnt  improve they agreed  to process  his VT.
I understand that a couple of weeks later Mr R tried to reverse that VT when his financial 
situation changed, but VWFS say they couldnt do this and I think  thats reasonable.
Im not persuaded that VWFS benefitted from the VT. Its clear  they would  have made more 
money if the term had completed. And I dont think they had an obligation to provide any 
further options to Mr R. There was a considerable time left on the contract and Im 
persuaded that they made some reasonable accommodations to try to help Mr R to keep the 
vehicle. I therefore  dont think they need  to waive the balance  thats  due on this agreement 
or take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1544901