K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2008. Mr and Mrs C say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them the policy.
background 
Mr and Mrs C took out PPI to cover  a mortgage  in 2008. The policy covered Mr C if he was 
unable to work because of illness  or injury. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why
Mr and Mrs C say they were led to believe they had to take the PPI and their representatives  
add that none of the documentation  specifies  the PPI is optional.  But I note they took their 
mortgage in 2004 and didnt take PPI at this time. As they had their mortgage for a number 
of years before they took their PPI, I think they wouldve known they wouldnt need the PPI 
to get the mortgage. 
Ive seen a quote Mr and Mrs C were given showing  cover  for accident and sickness only,  
setting out the cost and the benefit.  Mr C has also signed  a PPI application requesting cover.  
I note Mrs C didnt take PPI at all and Mr C didnt take unemployment cover either. Although 
these documents  were  completed in branch, I wouldve  expected Mr and Mrs C to have  
looked over them before signing  them. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, it looks as though both Mr and Mrs C exercised a degree of 
consideration and choice  when choosing the PPI which they took many  years  after they took 
their mortgage. So, overall, I think its more  likely  Santander made  it clear  the PPI was 
optional and that Mr and Mrs C agreed  to take it to cover Mr C only.  
Mr and Mrs C feel Santander provided  them with advice in relation to the PPI. But the high 
levels needs analysis  document theyve signed  explicitly says the PPI was provided on a 
non-advised basis. And while  PPI mightve been discussed while Santander gave Mr and 
Mrs C information about the PPI, I havent  seen anything that suggests Santander assessed 
Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances to assess suitability or that it gave them  a tailored 
recommendation. Overall,  I dont  think Santander  advised Mr and Mrs C to take PPI so it 
didnt have to check if the PPI was right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs C 
got the information they needed  to decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And Mr C (as the sole policy holder) was eligible for the policy.  
Ref: DRN11147262Mr C was concerned that as he was self-employed, he wouldnt have  benefited from the 
unemployment element of the policy. But as I explained above, he didnt take cover for 
unemployment so he seems to have taken that into consideration  when deciding  which  
elements of the PPI policy he wanted. As he didnt take the unemployment cover,  he 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms related  to this benefit. And it doesnt look 
like Mr C was affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so the 
PPI would have  been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. 
Mrs C says she had good sick pay provided  by her employer and Mr and Mrs C also say 
they had some savings  they couldve used to help them  meet their repayments should  they 
have found themselves unexpectedly out of work. But Mrs C didnt take the PPI cover,  so 
again they appear to have taken this into account.  This PPI policy also couldve paid out for 
up to 12 months if Mr C was unable to work because of illness  or injury. Having the policy  
wouldve allowed them  to use their savings on other essential expenditure at what couldve 
been a difficult  time financially.  
A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment  the consequence  of not being able 
to make repayments can be serious.  Based  on everything  Ive seen, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means I dont think the policy was mis-sold  and Santander doesnt have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs C paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Cs PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Cs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs C back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1114726