K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Lloyds Bank Plc got things wrong when she requested replacement 
bank cards and PINs for her Classic account and Savers  account.
background
Miss S said she told Lloyds in December  2018 that her bank cards had been lost or stolen 
and at this time requested replacement cards  and PINs. Miss S contacted Lloyds between 
mid-January 2019  and early February 2019.  She said this was to chase the progress of her 
replacement cards and PINs that she had previously requested.
Miss S complained about the delay in receiving  her replacement cards  and PINs, and the 
service she received from Lloyds staff.  Miss S said the delay caused  her distress and 
inconvenience. She was without access to her money which meant  she could not take her 
children to an amusement park as planned  for her sons birthday.
In early February 2019 Lloyds offered Miss S a total of £70 compensation for the delays she 
told them  she had experienced since December 2018. Miss S wasnt satisfied with the 
ongoing service  she received  from Lloyds and the distress  and inconvenience  caused, so 
brought her complaint  to our service.
Our investigator found that whilst there were some things Lloyds could have  done  differently, 
the award of £70 fairly compensated Miss S for her experience and did not ask Lloyds to do 
anything more.
Miss S didnt agree with our initial outcome  as she felt this award didnt compensate her for 
the way she was spoken to by Lloyds staff,  the stress this complaint has caused her and the 
financial loss and emotional impact on her family.  
I issued a provisional decision on 21 August 2019 and an extract  of my provisional findings  
is below.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened, in light of the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding  circumstances.
Based on the evidence  available I think its likely Miss S first contacted Lloyds to 
request her replacement cards and PINs between mid-January 2019  and early 
February 2019. I say this because Ive seen that she was making cash withdrawals 
from her Classic account before this time,  which required an active  card and PIN. 
When Miss S contacted Lloyds in early  February 2019, it took her word about  there  
being delays since December 2018 and in the absence of any previous contact notes it 
awarded her £70 compensation.
Ive considered what happened from the point of ordering  the replacement  cards and 
PINs. Lloyds  ordered a replacement card for the Savers account towards the end of 
January 2019.  No PIN was ordered at this point, its unclear why. Around one week 
later Miss S spoke to Lloyds and ordered a replacement card for the Classic account  
along with replacement PINs for both cards which were sent to her the following day. 
Miss S was told that she should  receive the PINs within five working days,  no 
Ref: DRN12056912particular day was promised. I dont think Lloyds got things wrong in relation to the 
Classic account. I say this because the replacement card and PIN for this account 
were ordered at the same time and sent to Miss S the next day.
Miss S called Lloyds  again four days later to say she still hadnt received the PINs 
despite being promised that she would.  During this call Lloyds offered alternative  
options to Miss S such as visiting a branch  to withdraw cash. But Miss S said this 
wasnt possible as she had no photo ID. For that reason I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds  to then recommend waiting a few more days  to see if the 
PINs arrived. This is because ordering new ones would  invalidate the previous PINs, 
and potentially mean Miss S would have  to wait longer for them to arrive.
Im satisfied the letters containing the PINs were sent to the right address. Miss S 
updated her address with Lloyds soon before ordering  the replacement  cards and 
PINs. Whilst  I can appreciate not receiving the PINs that week was frustrating for 
Miss S, I cannot hold Lloyds responsible  for delayed or missing post after it sent the 
PINs to Miss S.
Miss S complains that she has been inconvenienced  by not having access to her 
Savers account which she uses as her primary account. On this point, I find some of 
the evidence contradictory. Whilst there was a delay of around a week  between 
Lloyds ordering the replacement card and PIN for the Savers  account, I cant  say this 
has caused significant inconvenience  for Miss S. I say this because I can see she 
usually accesses funds  from this account  by transferring money  to her Classic 
account, from which she makes cash withdrawals. The last time Miss S withdrew 
cash from her Savers account was in July 2018. As explained above, I dont think 
Lloyds got things wrong in relation to the Classic  account.
I agree that Lloyds  could have ordered the PIN for the Savers account sooner, but 
when considering the overall delay and impact  to Miss S, I think  the compensation of 
£70 that has been paid to Miss S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
case.
Miss S does not think the compensation is enough to cover  her financial loss and the 
emotional impact on her and her children. Miss S said she could not take the family 
to the amusement  park as she had no access to cash to spend on the day. This trip 
was due to take place  only a few days after the PINs were sent by Lloyds  and I have 
not seen that Lloyds  promised they would arrive on time. I also think  Lloyds did offer 
her reasonable alternatives to get access to her money. So I dont think  it would be 
fair to say that it was anything Lloyds  did that prevented Miss S from going to the 
amusement park.
Ive listened to the calls that took place  with Miss S and Lloyds in February  2019.  From  
what Ive heard I cant say that the staff acted in a way that Id describe as rude or 
abrupt. Lloyds did what Id expect  by showing empathy to her situation and were  willing  
to help her obtain  the new PINs and log a complaint.
To conclude, I agree that Lloyds could have done  some things differently, but when  
considering the overall delay and impact  to Miss S, as explained above  I think the 
compensation of £70 that has been paid to Miss S is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case.
Ref: DRN12056913In all of the circumstances, Im satisfied Lloyds  has acted reasonably  so Im minded 
not to ask it to do anything differently here.
Miss S and Lloyds did not respond  to my provisional  decision or provide any further  
comments. I will now issue my final decision on the matter.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also given careful  consideration to all 
of the submissions made before  arriving  at my decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.
my final decision
I am not upholding  Miss Ss complaint for the reasons set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2019.
Arazu Eid
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1205691