K821x#15complaint
Miss P acquired a used car in May 2018,  by means  of a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited. She complains that the car was misrepresented to her by the 
supplying dealership, and that it was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
background
Miss Ps concerns about her car have  been divided into two complaints. This one concerns 
issues related mainly to misrepresentation.  The other complaint related to further issues,  
which resulted in Close Brothers (a) agreeing  to rejection of the car, and (b) paying  
compensation of £110 to Miss P. That one has been resolved.
Miss P sent a letter  of complaint to the supplying dealership in mid-August 2018, saying:
Her car had been mis-described
The dealer  had described the car as having  been serviced  just before the point of 
supply  but, very soon after she started driving  it, a service due indicator appeared 
on the dashboard
The car was also described as having  a full service  history  but details of this were 
not provided on delivery, and no service history was recorded on the manufacturers 
website
The dealer  also told her in writing  that it was the seller of the car  at a time when the 
vehicle was still the subject of a finance agreement between the person  who had 
previously acquired  it and another lender
In addition, the car was delivered  without  its spare key, and without having been  
road-taxed (even  though  she had paid £30 at the point of supply for this)
Miss P was distressed and inconvenienced by the above. So she referred her complaint  to 
Close Brothers in late August 2018.  
The dealer  explained that the car had been serviced at independent garages, and not at 
manufacturer-approved dealerships  and this was why that information didnt appear on the 
manufacturers website. The dealer  also supplied  the spare key to Miss P, and refunded  her 
road tax payment. 
Close Brothers upheld  Miss Ps complaint two days after receiving it, but didnt consider that 
any further action  was required. But Miss P remained  unhappy, so referred  her complaint to 
us. 
Miss P also investigated whether or not her cars  warranty  had been affected  by it being 
serviced at independent  garages. In mid-September 2018, she was advised by an agent of 
the manufacturer that her warranty had been invalidated. 
Ref: DRN15244412Miss P told us as well that:
Shed  arranged in late July 2018 for her car to be health-checked by a manufacturer-
approved dealership
The health-check  identified faults,  which were  repaired  and she made Close  
Brothers aware of this at the time (which was before she referred  her complaint to it)
Close Brothers had said, in response to her other complaint, that  
oit was considering rejection of her car
obut its policy in these circumstances was that she would be charged  for the 
mileage travelled since the point of supply, and so she should use the car as 
little as possible 
Our adjudicator told Miss P that if she didnt agree with Close  Brothers policy on mileage 
charges, she could refer her other  complaint to us in due course.
Close Brothers told us that:
Miss P didnt seek reimbursement of the cost of the health-check repairs
It inferred from this that the repairs had been  carried out under warranty, which would 
contradict the advice  given to her in September 2018 by an agent  of the 
manufacturer
As noted above,  Miss Ps other complaint was subsequently settled. Close  Brothers 
accepted rejection of her car, and also paid her compensation of £110 (£10 for out of pocket 
expenses, and £100 for distress and inconvenience).
Our adjudicator concluded that this complaint  should be upheld. He said that, in different 
circumstances, he would  have recommended  rejection of the car in settlement of this 
complaint. He added  that, in his view,  Miss P had suffered a great deal of distress and 
inconvenience. And he thought it would be fair for Miss P to receive compensation for the 
loss of enjoyment of her car:
because of the problems shed experienced, arising mainly from its 
misrepresentation, and
because of the impaired use, caused  by her need to limit the mileage charges made 
by Close  Brothers
As a result, our adjudicator recommended that to resolve this complaint Close  Brothers 
should pay additional compensation of £390 (which would make  the total amount received 
by Miss P £500).
Miss P agreed with our adjudicators recommendation, but Close Brothers  didnt. It said:
It based its redress awards to Miss P on the inconvenience she experienced
It acknowledged that Miss Ps conditional sale agreement didnt include mileage 
charges or restrictions  but she couldnt  expect to use her car without paying for it
It had advised  Miss P throughout the other complaint that shed be charged for 
usage, if rejection  was accepted  and she chose to restrict  her usage, because she 
didnt want to incur these charges
Miss Ps car wasnt faulty, and the further £390 compensation recommended was 
excessive
Ref: DRN15244413And so this complaint was referred  for review  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, I find that Ive come  to the 
same conclusion as our adjudicator.
Close Brothers has a responsibility  to ensure  that goods of satisfactory quality, and 
corresponding to their description, have been supplied. This means  that a reasonable 
person would have regarded  the goods  as satisfactory,  taking  into account all relevant 
circumstances, which for cars include age and mileage travelled.  But there are limits to 
Close Brothers responsibilities. In particular, faults must be found to have been present or 
developing at the point of supply.
This complaint concerns  issues related mainly to misrepresentation.  And I think  that Miss P 
should receive compensation because of the problems shes  experienced as identified  here.
But it wouldnt be appropriate in this complaint to consider issues relating to the settlement of 
another complaint, in which further problems have already been addressed. And so I dont 
think I can consider Miss Ps impaired use of her car here.
I think our adjudicator has come to the correct  conclusion, but partly for the wrong reasons. I 
agree with him that Miss P was distressed  and inconvenienced by the matters set out in her 
August 2018 complaint letter. I also think that Close Brothers correctly upheld  her complaint, 
but was wrong  not to make an award  for distress and inconvenience.
There are technical notes about  distress and inconvenience on our public website,  in which  
we describe:
how we decide whether to award  compensation for distress, inconvenience,  trouble, 
upset, damage to reputation, pain and suffering
how we decide what to award, where compensation is appropriate
cases where we have awarded  compensation
I feel that compensation of £390 in this instance (as recommended by our adjudicator)  is 
appropriate, given  the circumstances of Miss Ps complaint. Its consistent with our approach  
to awarding compensation, and with those  case descriptions and awards.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order Close Brothers  Limited  to pay compensation of £390 directly to 
Miss P. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1524441