K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI)  unfairly declined a claim she made under 
her car insurance policy.
Mrs T has brought this complaint to us with the support of Mr T. To keep things  simple,  Ill 
refer to them collectively  as Mrs T throughout my decision.
background
In July 2018 Mrs T was travelling abroad when her vehicle broke down. The car was towed 
to a garage and she was told that the cause of the problem  was due to misfuelling  petrol 
had been put into the vehicles diesel tank.
Mrs T called UKI to make  a claim under her policy. She was told the policy  wouldnt cover  
draining, flushing or replenishing the fuel itself. But she could make a claim for the damage 
caused by the misfuelling.  UKI sent an engineer  to assess the car and reported that the 
mechanical damage was due to wear and tear  which wasnt covered under the policy.
Mrs T disagreed and said shed been  told categorically by the initial garage that the damage 
was caused by misfuelling. And she complained UKI had caused unnecessary delays.
UKI responded to say its own engineers believed the faults were related to a damaged drive 
belt. But it said it would be willing  to reconsider this if Mrs T provided an independent  report 
or any commentary from the garage  to support  what shed said. UKI also said it had handled 
the claim within ten days so didnt feel there had been any unreasonable delay.
Mrs T brought her complaint to our service and an investigator looked into her complaint. He 
said UKI had dealt with the claim within a reasonable  timeframe  and it was fair for it to rely 
on engineers  report when declining the claim in the absence of any other evidence.
 
Mrs T disagreed with UKIs findings and reiterated that verbally  shed been  told the damage 
was caused by misfuelling. Because she disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me 
for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
In this case its UKI hasnt  disputed that Mrs Ts car was misfuelled.  And Mrs T has been 
clear she understands  UKI wouldnt cover the cost of the required draining, flushing and 
cleaning. But Mrs T tried to claim for the resulting damage from this event.
I have to consider  whether UKI assessed this claim for the resulting damage fairly  and 
declined it in line with the policy terms. And if it didnt,  what it should do to put things right.  
Ref: DRN15717712Within Mrs Ts policy book, it says UKI will not cover  loss or damage caused  by wear and 
tear. UKI says the evidence it has shows  the damage to Mrs Ts car is as a result of wear 
and tear  so it declined her claim. Mrs T disputes this and says the damage was caused as 
a result of misfuelling. And she says she was told this verbally by the garage.  
So I have  to consider most likely cause of the damage to Mrs Ts vehicle. Ive reviewed the 
report produced by UKIs engineer. This says that after the engineer  carried out the 
appropriate action  on the fuel tank, the vehicle still wouldnt start. And they then found  the 
timing belt (drive belt) showed damage, going  on to say:
From the remains visible, we gathered that the ignition timing was out because  of the 
missing belt teeth, and consequently, the valves might have been  hitting the heads of the 
pistons given that when we checked this manually each one made a different sound. Some 
had a bent piston rod and the majority of the rocker arms  were split
The engineer summarised that the reason for the breakdown in their opinion was not related 
to filling  the tank with the incorrect fuel. I think this report is thorough and detailed. And I 
think its persuasive evidence that shows the damage to Mrs Ts car was more likely as a 
result of wear and tear, and not misfuelling.
UKI said it would  consider  anything further from Mrs T. But she was unable to provide  any 
reports or commentary in writing that supported what she was told verbally. So based on the 
available evidence, Im satisfied UKI has acted fairly  in declining this claim and in line with its 
policy terms.
Ive also looked  at whether UKI has met its obligations to handle this claim promptly. From 
what Ive seen, UKI assessed the vehicle within several days of first Mrs T calling to claim,  
and she was told of the outcome around  a week later. So in light of steps it had to take to 
translate documents and arrange  an engineer  abroad, Im satisfied it did handle  this claim 
fairly and Im not asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1571771