K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about the service that shes received from PRA Group  (UK) Limited in 
connection with her credit card debt. 
background
Mrs A had a credit  card debt with a credit  card provider of £3,598.74 that was assigned to a 
third party in August  2012 and then to PRA Group  in January 2015. She was making  
monthly repayments to the credit card provider of £1 and that arrangement was continued by 
the third party  and PRA Group. A phone call took place in February 2017 in which  Mrs A was 
asked by PRA Group about her employment prospects and she received a letter which  she 
felt to be threatening. She asked PRA Group  to provide a copy of the deed  of assignment for 
her debt  but it didnt  do so  and she sent a number of letters to it which she says werent  
answered. 
She complained to PRA Group in June 2017  and it reduced her debt by £25 because a 
payment plan had been  set up incorrectly in May 2017. She complained to PRA Group again 
in February 2018  about a letter that shed received from it. She wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think  that 
PRA Group  had acted  unfairly by asking Mrs A for information about her employment 
prospects during the phone call in February  2017 and he didnt think that it had acted unfairly 
by sending the letter to her in February 2018.
Mrs A has asked  for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that:
she kept up her payments and when she missed a payment she paid it the additional 
£1;
her original contract was with the credit  card provider and shes never been given an 
opportunity to match the prices paid for her debt which  has been passed on without 
her agreement;
PRA Group has deleted the February  2017  call recording and is looking for any 
opportunity to bully her into paying  more;
it tried to trap her with an invalid direct  debit mandate and continued to harass her 
with phone calls and ignored her letters;
she considers any alleged contract null and void as it has acted unreasonably; and 
she made a settlement offer to PRA Group which it turned down.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A owed a credit  card debt to a credit  card provider. The debt of £3,598.74 was assigned  
to a third party in August 2012  and then to PRA Group in January 2015. I consider that the 
credit card company and the third party were entitled to transfer the debt and that there was 
no requirement for them to get Mrs As agreement to the transfers. Mrs A has asked for a 
copy of the deed of assignment of that debt. But PRA Group says that it contains 
commercially sensitive  information so it wont provide a copy of it to Mrs A. I dont consider 
that to be unfair or unreasonable. And it says that it cant  provide the notices of assignment  
Ref: DRN13773392of the debt but its account notes show that notices of assignment  were sent to Mrs A. Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to draw  any adverse conclusions  as a 
result of PRA Group not being able to provide copies of the notices of assignment.
Mrs A has been making monthly repayments  of £1 since  September  2012 and Ive seen no 
evidence to show that she didnt incur the debt with the credit  card provider. We offer an 
informal dispute resolution process  and it would be for a court  to decide  whether or not that 
debt was enforceable. 
Interest and charges had been suspended on Mrs As account by the credit card provider  
and she was making monthly repayments  of £1. That arrangement was continued by the 
third party and PRA Group. PRA Groups account notes show  that there has been  regular 
contact with Mrs A about the repayment  arrangements and shes provided  it with information 
about her income  and expenditure, shes said that shes in financial difficulties and shes 
asked for the payment arrangement to continue.
During a phone call in February  2017 PRA Group asked Mrs A about her employment  
prospects. That clearly caused offence  to Mrs A but I consider that it was reasonable for it to 
ask her about her employment prospects so that it could  properly consider her repayment 
arrangement. And Im not persuaded that it acted inappropriately in doing so. A recording of 
that call is no longer available but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to draw  an adverse conclusion from that.
Mrs A complained to PRA Group  in June 2017  and it reduced her debt by £25 because a 
payment plan had been  set up incorrectly in May 2017 which resulted in a payment being 
missed. Mrs A has continued to make  her monthly repayment but PRA Group  has a 
legitimate interest  in recovering the debt and I consider that its reasonable for it to ask Mrs A 
about her financial  arrangements. Shes  sent further  letters to PRA Group  but it said in a 
September 2017 letter to Mrs A that it would add them  to her file but not respond to them.  
She made an offer to pay £235 to settle  her debt in February 2018 but PRA Group said that 
the minimum settlement  that it would accept was £3,136.27.
Mrs A complained to PRA Group  again in February 2018 about  a letter that shed received 
from it which she felt to be threatening.  But Im not persuaded that the letter  was unfair  or 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
A creditor is required to respond  to a debtors financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. PRA Group  has continued  to accept monthly repayments of £1 and it hasnt  
applied interest  or charges to Mrs As account. I consider that PRA Group has responded to 
Mrs As financial difficulties  positively  and sympathetically. Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence  to show that it has bullied or harassed Mrs A and nor am I persuaded that 
its treated her unfairly  or unreasonably. 
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require PRA Group  to pay any 
compensation to Mrs A or to take any action in response to her complaint. And its required 
to continue to respond  to any financial  difficulties  that shes  experiencing positively and 
sympathetically. But Mrs A has only been making  monthly payments of £1 since  September  
2012. And I ask PRA Group to consider  whether theres any reasonable prospect of the debt 
being repaid and, if not, whether it would now be appropriate for it take other  action about  
the account.
my final decision
Ref: DRN13773393For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1377339