K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that FirstRand  Bank Limited  wouldnt  let her reject  a car.
background
In October  2018 Ms L bought a car funded  in full by a hire purchase agreement. It was some
10 years  old, cost £3,299  and had done  96,000 miles. Ms L says she needed to car for her 
work.
A few weeks  later the car broke down with a gearbox problem. This was repaired,  but it 
broke down  again a few weeks later and second  repair was carried out. Ms L says that the 
gear change  was still wasnt right. However  the car broke down again and this time the EGR 
valve was found  to be faulty. Ms L complained to FirstRand and it arranged  for an 
independent inspection. The car was with the selling  dealer, but due to the EGR fault it 
couldnt be driven. Apparently the dealer said the car had been driven with the EGR warning 
light on.
The inspector said that he was unable  to start the car and so it wasnt  road tested. 
Nevertheless the inspector concluded that due to the passage of time and the mileage done 
since purchase that the gearbox fault wasnt developing  at the time of sale. FirstRand  said 
that if Ms L had the EGR fault fixed it would look at the gearbox  issue again. It also made a 
contribution towards  the cost of hiring  a car on two occasions while Ms Ls was being  
repaired.
The relationship between Ms L and the garage  broke down and the car remained at its 
premises. Apparently the car was left in a yellow box junction  and was causing a hazard. 
The garage asked  that the car be removed  by First Rand  and it arranged  for this to be done.  
I gather  it has been returned to Ms L and FirstRand has waived  the collection fee.
Ms Ls complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She noted  the gearbox  had been  repaired twice under warranty. However, she said 
that even though Ms L had contacted FirstRand to reject the car before the second repair 
was effected she had accepted the repair and continued to use the car. The adjudicator 
didnt think she could  hold the bank liable since  Ms L had accepted  the car back.
She thought  First Rand  had been reasonable in twice covering the cost of a hire car. She 
also considered  the independent report and concluded this didnt establish that the gearbox 
faults had been present at the point of sale. That said she thought it was possible that the 
fault had been developing  at the time the car was bought, but Ms L had driven over 6,000 
miles. She didnt believe the EGR  fault had been  present at the point of sale.
She noted the car had initially  failed  its MOT  in early October,  but had subsequently passed 
with an advisory regarding an oil leak. The adjudicator  didnt think this could be said to be 
related to the gearbox issues.
Ms L didnt  agree and said her rejection at the time of the second  repair  should be allowed to 
stand even though she had taken  the car back.  She needed the car for her work and more  
recently she had to change her working arrangements  which  had resulted in a loss of 
income. I issued a provisional decision  as follows:
Ref: DRN19435972I noted the car was fairly elderly and had covered  a significant number of miles. There  was 
an expectation that parts would become worn and need to be replaced. However, I said a 
car should be fit for purpose at the point of sale. There was a problem with the gear box in 
November about  four weeks after it was sold. I thought it was reasonable to conclude that 
the fault would have  been present at the time it was sold.  The garage  arranged for the fault 
to be repaired and the car was returned  to Ms L.
I gathered that Ms L remained unhappy  and contacted FirstRand on 5 December to notify it 
that the car was still faulty. FirstRands notes  show that Ms L raised  the issue of rejecting the 
car. However it was taken  for a second repair. It wasnt clear why the car wasnt rejected at 
that point since  she had only owned  it for two months and it had already failed once. The 
dealer was entitled to one opportunity to make a repair and as this hadnt been satisfactory it 
was open to Ms L to reject the car.
However, the car was repaired and Ms L made  use of it for a few weeks before it broke 
down again. I could see that she needed  it to allow her to work and to earn money. I was 
satisfied that she still encountered problems with the gearbox, but as the EGR valve  failed 
and the car was no longer  usable the fault couldnt be properly investigated.
I noted the independent inspectors report  and saw that he had been unable to confirm the 
gearbox was working properly. While  I appreciated FirstRands request that Ms L have the 
EGR valve repaired so further tests  could be carried out on the gearbox I didnt think that 
was essential.
It was clear that the gearbox failed within a short period of ownership and that it failed again 
after being  repaired. At that point I would have  expected FirstRand to suggest that the car be 
rejected and to have  advised Ms L accordingly. Given her need to use the car for work I 
could see that this would have caused  her to accept a second  repair. I also believed she 
made use of it even though the gearbox wasnt working as one would  expect. Being able to 
drive a car doesnt  mean  that it is working  properly.
Ms L had raised  further issues regarding the behaviour of the dealer and it leaving the car in 
a hazardous place  while  it waited for her to collect it. I didnt consider I needed  to comment 
and in any event  I didnt see that First Rand could  be held responsible  for that.
Ms L accepted the decision, but FirstRand didnt. It said that the independent report  said the 
fault with the EGR would not have been present at the point of sale.  Had the EGR been 
repaired it would have  paid for the gearbox repairs if they had been shown to be present at 
the point of sale. It said that all reports had been  carried out and there  was no independent 
evidence that they had failed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Ref: DRN19435973FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have noted FirstRands  comments, but they have not persuaded me to alter my decision. 
The gearbox failed  after a few weeks of purchase and it was repaired twice.  I think  it 
reasonable to conclude  the gearbox  was most  likely faulty at the time of purchase and the 
first repair wasnt  effective. In those circumstances it would be reasonable for the car to have 
been rejected  when  the first repair proved to be ineffective. 
The matter  has been clouded to some extent  by another  significant  fault arising which the 
inspector didnt believe had been present  at the point of sale. This has prevented  the 
inspector from reaching a conclusion. Therefore I have had to take a view on the other  
information and as I have already stated I believe that it would have been reasonable to let 
Ms S reject  the car after the first gearbox  repair failed. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FirstRand  Bank  Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay,
collect the car at no further cost to Ms L and refund any payment made by her after 5 
December 2018 with interest at 8% simple from the date paid until refunded and 
pay Ms L £200 for any trouble and upset and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1943597