K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a chargeback  for a static 
caravan she bought. Mrs S is represented by her solicitor.
background
Mrs S bought a static  caravan  with her son in 2018 from a company  I will call P. She says 
there were problems with the caravan and that she and her son told P about them.  And 
asked Barclays to raise a chargeback on the basis of the unsatisfactory condition  of the 
caravan. Mrs S says she was told on two separate occasions that the chargeback  had been 
successful and she was free to keep the refunded  money of £20,995. She says she was 
later told by Barclays that it had made a mistake  and that it couldnt  challenge  Ps 
submissions and that she would have to repay  the money.
Barclays says the chargeback was raised  in September 2018 and accepts it told Mrs S it 
was successful. It accepts making a mistake and has apologised and paid £100 
compensation and offered a further £500  compensation. Barclays says it could no longer 
proceed with the chargeback in the light of submissions and documents  submitted by the 
merchant. In summary it says Mrs S and her son signed documents which set out the faults 
and that reports  suggested the caravan was fit for purpose.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought  Barclays had made mistakes 
but its compensation offer was fair and reasonable. In summary the investigator thought it 
unfair to recommend Barclays  refund  the purchase  price and that it wasnt responsible for 
some of Mrs Ss complaints about the way in which P had conducted itself.
Mrs Ss solicitor  on her behalf  doesnt  accept that view and says Mrs S was mis-sold the 
caravan and that P has submitted fraudulent documents. The solicitor questions  why only 
part of the total caravan cost was refunded  by Barclays  and says other problems with the 
caravan have come to light. And says Barclays  actions were unfair in debiting Mrs Ss 
account in May 2019 which affected her credit score and that of her sons  and that issue is at 
the heart of the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mrs S will be disappointed  by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly she feels about whats happened.
There is no question here that Barclays made a number of mistakes in dealing  with Mrs Ss 
chargeback. I have no doubt Mrs S was caused  a significant level of distress  and upset by 
being told that her chargeback was not successful when she had previously been told more  
than once that it had. I appreciate Mrs Ss frustration  and concern in those circumstances 
and that she would also have been  concerned  in any event about her dispute with P. But Im 
satisfied that Barclays  has fairly  apologised for its mistakes and paid and offered what I think 
is a fair and reasonable level of compensation. And I can see that Mrs S also agrees that the 
offer is fair and reasonable.
The key question is if Barclays should refund the amount that was subject to the chargeback 
in the light of it misleading Mrs S. I am sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I dont think it fair or 
reasonable to order Barclays  to do so for the reasons I will explain.
Ref: DRN18219322The investigator has explained that the chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up 
and run by the card providers. That means Barclays is not responsible for the chargeback  
rules and there is no guarantee of success when  a chargeback is raised. I can see that 
Barclays raised a chargeback that was defended by the merchant  P. I can also see that P 
provided documents which  suggested that the caravan had been  inspected and that Mrs S 
had signed certain  documents.  In those circumstances I dont think  Barclays acted unfairly 
by concluding  in the light of the chargeback rules Mrs Ss claim was unlikely to succeed.
I appreciate that Mrs Ss solicitor says that fraudulent documents  may have been submitted 
and that there is a dispute about what documents were  actually signed.  But I dont think  any 
of that matters as far as a decision to proceed  with a chargeback is concerned.  As I think  
Barclays fairly concluded that on the face of it there  was evidence from P that led it to 
reasonably conclude that under the chargeback rules,  a claim would not succeed.
I accept that Mrs S was unable to provide further  information to support her claim but again I 
dont think it matters as I have explained the chargeback process is an informal  process to 
try and resolve disputes. And I think on balance that Mrs Ss main  area of complaint must be 
with P and the problems she has experienced with it and the caravan faults. I dont think  the 
chargeback process  could  realistically resolved such a complex dispute involving potential 
expert reports on the caravan and allegations of fraudulent documents and behaviour  by P.
I dont think it follows that just because Barclays told Mrs S that the money  was hers to keep 
it should honour that promise now it has realised  that was a mistake. I appreciate  that Mrs S 
says her account was debited in May 2019  without her knowledge. But I think Barclays  told 
her in its letter of April 2019 that it intended  to do that and so I dont think Mrs S ought to 
have been surprised by that decision.
I can see that Mrs S has raised a number of issues about P and further issues  about  
invoices for ground  rent and other  similar  matters. I cant fairly comment on those problems 
as I dont think they have anything to do with Barclays. I also dont think  Barclays  made a 
mistake about the amount it refunded initially as I think  that was the amount of the debit card 
payment and the amount  Mrs S said was the amount she disputed.
Overall Im satisfied that Barclays  offer is fair and reasonable but I will leave it to Mrs S to 
decide if she wishes to accept it. No doubt Mrs S will consider alternative action against P if 
she wishes but I think this brings  an end to what we, in trying  to sort out this dispute  
informally, can to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
£500 compensation. Mrs Ss acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1821932