K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1999. Mr S says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr S hasnt  said much about how the PPI was sold to him  so Ive checked if Barclays  
gave him a fair choice in taking the policy when it was sold to him. Barclays  has provided  
a copy of Mr Ss credit  card application   it was completed when Mr S responded to a 
mail shot sent to him by Barclays,  and returned his application through  the post. On this I 
can see that the PPI is presented as an optional  product, and has been selected  with a 
tick. Mr S has also signed the application  agreeing to the information  on it. So I think  that 
Barclays made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take the PPI, and that he chose to do so. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide  if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said, including what  hes said about  having good 
benefits through his work, so he didnt have a need  for PPI. But the PPI couldve paid out on 
top of any existing cover that Mr S had  and for longer than he wouldve received full pay. 
So this point  doesnt change my decision,  and for the reasons set out above, I dont think  the 
policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1923795