K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) cant locate a payment that 
she believes  she paid into her account.
background
Mrs S complained to RBS in March 2019 that when she came  to check her account, two 
cash deposit transactions that she made in branch in 2017 werent showing. Mrs S has two 
cash deposit envelope receipts,  the first for £400 thats dated 7 August 2017. And the 
second for £437 dated 25 August 2017. Neither  of those deposit receipts are stamped by the 
branch concerned.
RBS located the second  payment  on her statement, but the first of £400 cant  be traced.  Mrs 
S has told us that she remembers  handing the deposit slip to a customer  services adviser in 
branch that day, together with her debit card. She says that there was a queue  and the 
adviser on the front desk filled in the slip for her and handed her the receipt. They  also 
produced a statement for her which she has provided to us. That statement is timed at 4.27 
p.m. on 7 August. It shows a transfer  of £173  from another RBS account of hers that day. 
But theres no mention  of the £400.
Mrs S reported her complaint to RBS some considerable time after the transactions.  This 
was sadly because of some family health  concerns in the intervening  period. RBS has said 
that because of this, the branch no longer  has the records of cash transactions made on the 
day concerned. It only keeps deposit slips for 12 months. But its investigations didnt find 
that there  were any discrepancies in the branch accounts on the relevant day.
Our investigator looked into Mrs S complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld.  She 
considered that there was insufficient  evidence to show that Mrs S more  likely than not paid 
£400 in cash and/or cheques into her account  on 7 August.
Mrs S didnt agree. She thinks something went wrong at RBS and either theres  been  a 
clerical error, or her money has been  stolen. The complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S will be disappointed to hear that I wont be upholding her complaint.  Ill explain why.
As our investigator has said, the problem we have  here is that there is no longer evidence  
available from the RBS branch that would  show  the deposit slips received on the 7 August. 
And I dont  think that its unreasonable  for RBS not to have kept those  slips for more than 12 
months.
I was sorry to hear of Mrs S family  health concerns and I wholly appreciate  why she wasnt 
able to deal with this in the intervening period. But that does mean that both the bank and 
this service have little to go on other than Mrs S recollection of what happened on the day 
concerned. That is of course evidence itself and I do not doubt that Mrs S thinks  that she 
paid £400 in that day. But given that if I am to find that RBS has done something wrong 
Ref: DRN12219472here, and needs  to compensate Mrs S accordingly, I must find that Mrs S did pay the cash in 
to her current account that day and that either a clerical error has occurred or, more 
worryingly, her money was stolen.
Mrs S has kept deposit slips from both transactions that she complained about. When  RBS 
investigated the complaint, it found that the 25 August transaction  for £437 had made  it into 
Mrs S current account that day. That was a cash and/or cheque transaction.  And it was for 
an amount that Mrs S quite regularly received into her account.
However, just because Mrs S has a deposit  receipt slip, that unfortunately doesnt constitute  
sufficient evidence that the money  was paid in that manner into the branch. The receipt  isnt 
stamped by the branch  and it only includes a hand-written note that £400 was paid in on that 
day.
Now I do not doubt that Mrs S is convinced that she did pay the £400 cash  into her account. 
And I accept  that she was in the branch that day, as evidenced by the statement. But this 
was almost two years  before and a lot has clearly happened in-between. The second  £437 
transaction was made in the way that Mrs S remembers. But sadly, thats not enough  for me 
to find that Mrs S did pay £400  into her account on 7 August 2017, particularly as theres no 
other evidence available to corroborate it. 
I cant really say what may have happened to the money and why Mrs S has a receipt for 
something that isnt now in her account. And it could be that there  has been a clerical  error 
or a theft here. But equally it could be that she changed her mind  and never  deposited the 
cash; that she is confusing this transaction  with another that she made; or perhaps that she 
paid it into a different  account altogether. But it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to ask 
RBS to credit the sum to her account based on the evidence available.
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
James Kennard
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1221947