K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold him a credit  card 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr R took out the PPI in July 2000 at the same  time as applying  for the credit card in a 
branch of Nat West.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr R has no recollection of the sale at all. He says that he may have opted  for the PPI, and 
looking at the evidence, I think that is the case.  There  was a separate  section on the credit 
card application  form for PPI and Mr R has signed within  that section to request  the policy.  
He could have  left that section blank if he didnt want it. So it seems  to me that Mr R decided 
to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even  if he no longer remembers doing so.
Nat West didnt advise  Mr R to buy the policy, therefore it didnt need to ensure that it met 
his needs. But Nat West did need  to provide  Mr R with enough information for him to be able 
to make an informed decision about  whether or not it was right for him.
Mr R says hes come to understand from his representative that his generous work benefits 
would have excluded  him from claiming. But actually there  are no exclusions within the 
policy relating to sick pay or redundancy pay.
Mr R says that if he was off sick his employer  would have given him six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and 
potentially for longer  than Mr R would have received full pay for. Mr R had some savings, but 
having the policy meant that he would have been  able to retain  these, or use them to cover 
other outgoings at what would  have  been  a difficult time.
Its possible that Nat West  didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover, but Mr R wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  that 
further information would have caused him to change his mind.  So Mr R isnt any worse off 
as a result  of anything  Nat West may have done  wrong, so theres  nothing  Nat West needs 
to do to put things  right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Rs complaint.
Ref: DRN16798802Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1679880