K821x#15complaint
Mr N has complained about the decision  of Great Lakes  Insurance  SE to decline his claim 
under his unemployment insurance policy.
background
On 8 March 2018,  Mr N took out an unemployment insurance policy with Great  Lakes. The 
policy would pay a monthly benefit  of £1,800  for up to twelve months in the event that Mr N 
was made  involuntarily  unemployed.  The first premium was payable  on 9 April 2018. The 
policy contained an initial exclusion  period which meant Mr N was not eligible  to make a 
claim if he was made aware  of the risk of becoming unemployed within  30 days  of when the 
first premium  was payable.
Mr N was made redundant  by his employer with effect from 31 July 2018.  He made a claim 
under the policy.  His former employer stated on the claim  form that the redundancy 
consultation period had begun on 3 April 2018  and Mr N had been notified of his redundancy 
on 3 May 2018.
Great Lakes declined the claim.  It said that the initial  exclusion period lasted until 8 May 
2018 and Mr N had been made aware  of the risk of unemployment, and notified  of his 
unemployment, before that date.
Mr N was unhappy at Great  Lakes decision. He said he had no knowledge  of his impending 
unemployment until after the initial exclusion period.  He said he would speak  to his former 
employer.
A short while later, the former employer informed Great Lakes it had made an administrative 
error and the date Mr N had been  notified  of his redundancy  was 10 May 2018.
Great Lakes continued  to decline the claim. It pointed out to Mr N that the new information 
from his former employer contradicted the information it already had on file which  showed  
that the letter notifying Mr N of his redundancy was dated 3 May 2018.
Mr N said that although  the letter was printed and signed on 3 May 2018, he had been  on 
annual leave  at the time and so wasnt presented with the letter until he returned to the office 
on 10 May 2018.
Great Lakes continued  to decline the claim. It said that even if formal notification of Mr Ns 
redundancy hadnt been until 10 May 2018, the consultation  period  had begun  on 3 April 
2018 which meant Mr N had been  aware of the risk to his employment within  the initial 
exclusion period.
Mr Ns former employer  wrote to Great Lakes to explain that the consultation which began 
on 3 April 2018 was in relation to an office relocation rather than redundancy. It said Mr Ns 
job was not at risk during the consultation  period.
Great Lakes still wouldnt change its decision. Mr N therefore referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator ultimately  recommended that the complaint should  be upheld. He 
considered that the evidence suggested  Mr N wasnt made aware of any risk to his 
Ref: DRN18358402employment until 10 May 2018 which was outside the initial  exclusion period. He therefore 
considered that Great  Lakes should accept Mr Ns claim  and pay benefit, plus interest.
Great Lakes didnt accept  the investigators findings.  It said that even it were to accept that 
Mr N wasnt notified of his redundancy until 10 May 2018, there  was still a lack of 
understanding of what  he was told before this date. It said that if the employer was following 
employment law, it was inconceivable that he would be notified of his redundancy without  
first being  informed that his job was at risk in a consultation period. It said that a consultation 
would not have been held over an office  move  unless there was a possibility some staff 
would leave as a result. It therefore  considered that Mr N must have been  aware  of the risk 
to his employment before 10 May 2018.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. I 
shall explain  why.
The policy states,  under  the heading  What is not covered:
d) Claims  during the initial exclusion period where:
you are notified of your unemployment  even if your last day in work falls outside of this 
period;
you are made aware that there is a risk you could be made  unemployed even if the 
formal notification of your unemployment  was issued outside of this period;
you are aware of circumstances which might  lead to you having  to stop work in order  to 
become a carer.
The policy describes the initial exclusion period as lasting until 30 days  from the date the first 
premium is payable. In Mr Ns case,  this means  the initial exclusion period lasted until 
8 May 2018.
Mr Ns employer produced a letter on 3 May 2018  notifying Mr N of his redundancy. 
However, Mr N says he was on annual leave at that time and so wasnt  presented with the 
letter until his return to work on 10 May 2018. The employer, after initially giving  different 
information, has since clarified that Mr Ns version of events is correct.  I am therefore 
satisfied that Mr N didnt  receive formal  notification of his unemployment until after the end of 
the initial exclusion period.
I therefore must consider whether Mr N was made  aware before the end of the initial  
exclusion period  that there was a risk he could be made unemployed. The employer said on 
the claim form that a consultation period began on 3 April 2018. However, it has since  
clarified that this consultation was over an office  relocation which  was to take place in June 
2018. I have seen a letter from the employer to Mr N dated 16 April 2018  which  talks about 
this move and explains  the enhanced payments he would receive as part of his relocation  
package. The letter makes no reference to Mr Ns job being  at risk and indeed makes clear  
that the employer hopes  Mr N will decide  to remain in his post for the long-term.  The 
employer has also written  to Great Lakes stating that Mr Ns position  was not at risk during 
Ref: DRN18358403the consultation and that the first time Mr N became aware that his job might be at risk was 
when he was notified of the redundancy on 10 May 2018.
I understand Great Lakes concern about  the claim. It would seem very surprising that Mr N 
should be notified of his redundancy without  any prior warning. But the employer has 
confirmed that this is what happened. Great Lakes has also drawn attention to the 
suspicious timing of Mr Ns decision to take out unemployment cover. However,  Mr N has 
said this was connected to the fact he was moving house around  this time and he has 
provided evidence  to show this was the case. I consider this is a plausible  explanation for his 
decision to take out cover.
On balance, I consider  Mr N has done enough to suggest his claim is eligible and Great  
Lakes hasnt done enough to show the exclusion for the initial exclusion period should be 
applied. I therefore  think Great  Lakes should accept the claim and pay benefit, plus interest.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Great Lakes  Insurance SE to accept Mr Ns claim and pay benefit  in accordance 
with the policys  remaining  terms and conditions. Great Lakes  should  add interest  to these 
benefit payments  at the annual simple  rate of 8%, calculated from the date each payment 
was due to the date of settlement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Great Lakes considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give Mr N a certificate showing 
this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1835840