K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska)  declined  to continue  to 
provide him with annual travel insurance.  
background
Mr W held an annual travel insurance  policy which he renewed every  year.  For the policy 
year 2018  to 2019, Mr W renewed  his policy online, but the business  cancelled this policy 
and refunded the premiums he paid. It also informed him he would no longer  be able to take 
out cover  with it after his policy for 2017  to 2018 expired on 24 November 2018. Mr W 
complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and didnt uphold the complaint. They  
explained that Astrenska was not obliged to offer cover to consumers  if it no longer wanted 
to. Mr W did not agree.  So the case has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint either, Ill explain why. 
No insurer is required to offer renewal  of cover unless this is a contractual term in the policy  
in question. I cant see that Mr Ws policy contains such a term. Without  that an insurer can 
decide at the start of each  policy year what risk a consumer poses, what risks they are 
prepared to accept  that year, and at what price, and then decide whether they wish to do 
business or not. There isnt any legal requirement  for a travel  insurer to offer cover. 
In this case Astrenska  appears  to have considered the risk that Mr W seems to pose and 
have decided not to offer cover. As Ive said without a contractual term forcing renewal on 
them, and without any legal compunction  to do so, Astrenska can refuse to offer cover.  
I would of course expect  any insurer to apply these things fairly and perhaps have some 
reason for not offering cover. But here I see that Mr W has quite a long claims history and it 
does seem to me that Astrenska do have a reason for not renewing cover, even if that is a 
reason Mr A doesnt  agree  with. Whilst Mr W thinks he has been  blacklisted it seems to me 
that Astrenska have just decided  he is a risk they dont  want  to cover  anymore. 
my final decision
I make  no award against Astrenska Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1566076