K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy at esure Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim he made on his 
buildings insurance  policy.
Reference to esure in this decision includes its claim handlers and agents. 
background
Mr B is almost  90 and has a buildings insurance policy with esure which  started on 5 March 
2018. In November that year, Mr Bs cleaner noticed mould and damage to the wallpaper in 
his hallway, so Mr B made a claim on the policy.  esure inspected the damage and declined  
the claim,  stating the policy excluded damage  which took place over a period of time and 
could have originated before the policy began.
Mr B said the damage hadnt occurred over a long period of time.  He and his son noticed 
water coming through the ceiling. Hed had a previous escape of water in his hallway which  
had been the subject  of a previous claim about twenty years ago. Hes a retired plumber so 
thought he would have noticed an ongoing  leak. And hed recently  had a couple of surveys  
on his property and none of these  had identified a problem. Mr B thought  esure should pay 
out, so he brought his complaint to our service.
In order to decide if esure had declined the claim  fairly one of our investigators tried to 
determine when  the insured event took place. She took into account the claim assessors 
report and the valuation reports (not surveys) which had been  commissioned as Mr B was 
considering equity release. She thought they all supported  esures position that the damage 
had arisen over time.  So without evidence the leak happened  after the policy  started, she 
didnt think it was unfair of esure to decline the claim.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view.  He said someone his age wouldnt make a 
frivolous claim, and he didnt see the point of having insurance if a claim like this isnt met. 
So the case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
The starting point  of any complaint about  an insurance claim is the terms and conditions of 
the policy, which includes the general exclusions. So Ive looked at the policy document  on 
esures website, covering  the period 12 October  2017 to 2 May 2018 - this is the one which  
applied at the time Mr Bs policy started.
Section 7 relates to Escape of Water/burst  pipes  and says the policy will cover loss or 
damage arising from water escaping  from water tanks, fixed equipment, any domestic 
appliance or fixed heating systems but it goes on to say it does not cover  including  damage 
caused by gradual operating cause . 
On page 25 under General Exclusions it says we will not pay for loss, damage or any 
liability arising directly or indirectly from the following   then it goes on to list a number of 
exclusions including this paragraph under the heading Wear and Tear
Ref: DRN16400792Wear and tear;
Loss or damage as a result of lack of maintenance
Loss of value over time [not relevant in this case]
Loss or damage that happens gradually  over time (for example .. damp, 
condensation..or other gradual  deterioration)
Further down the page under Other exclusions it says any loss or damage which 
happened before  the period of cover started . 
So a reasonable interpretation  of these exclusions and terms is that in order  for the claim to 
be valid, the damage had to have been  caused  by something which happened after 5 March 
2018. And it cannot relate to lack of maintenance, wear and tear, gradual deterioration or 
gradual operating  cause.  Typically, an escape of water  in the context of an insurance  claim, 
means a sudden leak, such as a burst  pipe.  
The claim assessor appointed by esure inspected the damage on 18 September 2018.  He 
located a leak under the upstairs  floorboards.  His assessment was there  was no insured 
cause as he thought  the damage was pre-inception, meaning it was there  before the 
policy started. Ive looked closely at the claim assessors report which  includes photos  taken 
of Mr Bs property at that visit. The photos show extensive damage which  appears  to be 
caused by damp, as well as paper  peeling  off the walls, considerable water staining,  
blistered paint and dark mould. Further there is evidence  of high damp meter readings. So I 
dont think its in dispute theres been an escape of water at some point. 
Ive also listened  to the call Mr B made  to esure when he initially made the claim.  He said he 
was calling to report a burst pipe. But when the call handler asked  him when it had 
happened, he said well thats  the funny thing, weve only just noticed, but it appears to have 
been going on for ages.  He also mentioned said the wallpaper had started to go green, with 
moss growing  on it. He says someone else had noticed it, but the hall is very dark and 
theyd only seen it when  the light was turned on. Mr B didnt say he and his son had noticed 
water coming through the ceiling, which would have suggested a sudden leak. The claim 
assessors report mentions damage  to a door frame showing evidence  of a previous leak 
which has been repaired, which Mr B says happened 20-25 years ago. I dont think theres 
necessarily a link between the two claims. But if evidence of a historic leak can still be seen 
after two decades, this may suggest  shortcomings  in the repairs and reinstatement works 
carried out at the time. 
When Mr B reported his claim, the call handler  confirmed his policy  covers damage  arising  
from burst pipes and leaks, but didnt mention that damage caused over time, or wear  and 
tear arent covered.  She told Mr B an assessor  would visit to inspect the damage  and 
provide costings. I think it might have  been helpful if shed told Mr B the assessor would 
firstly decide  whether  the claim is covered under the policy. But this is balanced by the fact 
its not her job to assess the claim,  just take the details and instruct the assessor. I consider 
its reasonable for esure  to use a professional with the relevant training and experience  to 
assess the claim.
Im not an insurance assessor, so I put weight on the opinion  of an expert  in that field.  And 
he thought the damage pre-dated Mr Bs policy. I cant say for sure whether hes right.  But 
the extensive damage suggests its more advanced  than Id expect shortly after a leak 
occurred. And Mr B himself  said it seemed  to have been going on for ages. The claim was 
made because the cleaner noticed mould had developed, not because Mr B and his son saw 
Ref: DRN16400793water coming through the ceiling. So even if I cant be sure when the leak started, Im 
persuaded its most likely  the damage  was caused over time. 
Ive also considered the reports prepared on behalf of companies  Mr B consulted  about 
equity release. An extract from one (report A) was provided by Mr B, the other  (report  B), 
was obtained  direct from the company  by our investigator. Both are valuation  reports, so 
their scope is more limited than a structural survey.  The property was inspected for report  A 
on 23 March 2018, just after Mr B took out his policy, while  the inspection for report  B took 
place on 17 May 2017. Both describe the property as needing extensive repair. Report  A 
recommended urgent  works to the roof and electrics, which  Mr B subsequently had done, to 
enable him to proceed with the equity  release  application. 
Report B, which was issued ten months before Mr B took out his policy  with esure,  gave the 
value as nil for lending purposes. It says the property has only benefitted from basic 
maintenance, and described it as being  in a dilapidated  condition,  mentioning among other 
things leaking defective rainwater goods, leaking defective flat roof and defective water 
damaged ceilings.  So rather  than supporting the position that the damage  was caused by a 
sudden leak, both reports suggest the property  was in need of repair. And there  was water 
damage to the ceilings  almost a year prior to Mr Bs policy starting. 
I have a lot of sympathy for Mr Bs situation, and acknowledge property maintenance can be 
difficult. As noted  above, I do think esures agent  could have explained that while  damage 
arising from leaks and escapes  of water is covered, damage arising over time is not, and 
that the assessor would  decide  this. But taking everything into consideration Ive seen 
nothing which persuades me esures  decision to decline Mr Bs claim was unfair. Whether  
the damage related to something  which happened  before his policy  started, or it developed 
gradually over time, both of these are excluded from Mr Bs policy.
I understand esure has said Mr B may be able to claim on his previous policy,  so he may 
wish to try that if he hasnt already done so. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1640079