K822xcomplaint
Miss E complains  that Santander  UK Plc gave her incorrect  information  about her overdraft 
balance which resulted in her paying charges. She also complains about how Santander 
dealt with her complaint.
background 
Miss E says she tried on a number of occasions  to obtain the correct amount from 
Santander to pay off her overdraft balance and close her account.  She says she paid off the 
amount but then received  further charges that Santander didnt tell her about. Miss E 
questions a charge  of £95 and complains about how long Santander  took to deal with her 
complaint and close her account. She would  like compensation for her loss and for the time 
spent trying to sort matters out.
Santander has issued  a number of responses to Miss Es complaints. In summary it says 
charges were correctly  applied but accepts it didnt  tell Miss E about pending charges when 
she called  it. It says its refunded some  charges  and paid compensation.
Miss E brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought Santander  hadnt  dealt with 
the complaint  appropriately by answering Miss Es questions  or explaining what  had 
happened. The investigator  thought Miss E had asked Santander  for the account  balance 
with a view to closing  the account and it ought  to have  told Miss E about pending charges. 
The investigator also thought Miss E ought to have been aware  of them  as well. The 
investigator recommended Santander  pay a further £80 compensation in addition  to the £20 
already paid.
Santander has agreed to pay that compensation.
Miss E doesnt accept  that view and says the charges should also be refunded as it was 
reasonable for her to assume there  were no pending charges when she called Santander 
about the amount needed to bring the account to zero.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for similar  reasons.
I have no doubt  that Miss E was trying to bring her account to zero when she called 
Santander as I can see that she paid in amounts into her account that would  have done  so if 
it were not for pending charges. I think Santander  ought to have told Miss E about  those 
pending charges.  But I also think Miss E ought  to have been aware of them as this was her 
account and was given information  about them on her account  statements.
I have not seen any evidence that the charges were incorrectly applied and so I cant fairly 
order Santander to refund some of them as Miss E would like. Im satisfied that if Santander 
had correctly told Miss E that there were charges pending then she still would have been 
liable to pay them.
I accept that Santander didnt  answer Miss Es complaint points or explain what  had taken  
place as clearly as it ought to have. So I accept Miss E was caused  inconvenience in those 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN10947562Overall I agree with the investigator  that Santander should  pay further compensation for 
what took place.  And I also agree with the investigators recommendation which  I can see 
Santander also agrees with. For the reasons I have explained I cant fairly conclude the 
charges where  applied  were incorrect and so cant fairly order  Santander  to do anything  
further in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of a further 
£80 compensation.  Miss Es acceptance  of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1094756