K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the way Assurant General Insurance Limited has handled  his mobile 
phone insurance  claim,  and that it hasnt yet paid his claim.
background
Mr S told Assurant  that hed damaged his phone. Assurant asked him for proof  of ownership 
and proof  of usage. There was a dispute  about Assurants request for this information.  Mr S 
said he had proof of ownership, and could send it to Assurant but that he couldnt get proof 
of usage from his network provider. He referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint, but following an initial review we asked 
for more information. Assurant explained  it wanted proof  of usage to see that the phone  was 
being used when it was damaged and said that this was a requirement  under the policys  
terms. It had received proof of usage  in other  cases involving Mr Ss network  provider. But it 
would accept a letter from the network provider confirming he couldnt  get proof of usage. 
Mr S was able to provide this evidence, together  with the proof of ownership and a receipt 
for the repair. Assurant  then said it would pay the claim for the cost of repairing  the phone, if 
Mr S could show hed paid for the repair. This was because the receipt seemed to show  that 
hed paid by card (not cash, as Mr S had said)  and it didnt identify the make,  model and 
IMEI number of the repaired phone. 
Also, Assurant said it had checked with the phone manufacturers service centre shown on 
the receipt, and they didnt have any record of the repair on the date of the receipt.  Assurant 
said it would  still be willing to pay the claim if Mr S could provide evidence that hed both had 
the repair done to his phone and had paid for it. 
Our investigator thought Assurant had made a fair offer to resolve the complaint. So she 
didnt uphold  it. Mr S didnt agree with the outcome,  and thought wed been  biased as our 
service was funded  by the insurance  company.  He said wed ignored evidence  of phone  
calls when hed repeatedly called Assurant when  the damage occurred. He said he couldnt  
show that hed paid the repair bill in cash nearly one year after hed made  the payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I should say that I am impartial and I reach my own decision on each complaint 
independently based on its individual facts and merits.
Ive reviewed this complaint and Ive thought about Mr Ss comments.  But I think Assurant 
has made a fair offer to settle his claim, less the policy excess,  subject to further  evidence  of 
the repair. Ill explain why, focusing on what I see as the central  issues.
I think Assurant was entitled to ask Mr S for proof  of ownership and proof of usage. It has 
explained why it required this information and I see it is a requirement under the policy. 
Assurant fairly wanted to see that the phone was damaged while it was owned and used by 
Mr S. 
Ref: DRN16243372Mr S couldnt obtain proof of usage.  I think its reasonable that, in these circumstances, 
Assurant agreed to accept a letter  from his network  provider saying that it couldnt provide 
proof of usage. 
Having received the ownership and usage evidence I think  Assurant has made a fair offer to 
settle the claim, subject to receiving evidence  that Mr S had paid to repair  his phone.  It 
hasnt disputed he damaged his phone. But Assurant is entitled to ask for evidence to show  
hed paid to repair his phone before it reimburses  him for those repairs less the policy 
excess.
Mr S has said he paid cash for the repair, and I appreciate it is difficult  to prove  a cash 
payment. But thats not the only reason Assurant has asked for more evidence.  
The repair receipt  Mr S has provided  doesnt  show the make,  model and IMEI for the phone 
that was repaired, so I think Assurant was entitled to ask for further  details to check the 
repair was for Mr Ss phone. It has said that the phone manufacturers  service centre where  
Mr S repaired the phone would keep a log of the repair  on its system, as the repair would 
come with a warranty and to maintain an audit trail of the repair. Assurant checked the 
service centres records and they didnt have any log of a repair  on the date of the receipt. 
Also, the repair appears to show a card payment rather than a cash payment.
I think Assurant has made  a fair offer to pay the claim,  less the excess  when it receives from 
Mr S evidence to show hed paid to repair  his phone. So I dont require Assurant to do 
anything further.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I think Assurant General Insurance Limited has made a fair and 
reasonable offer to pay Mr Ss claim,  less the policy excess  when  it receives evidence  to 
show that hed paid to repair his phone; that is, evidence to show  the make,  model and IMEI 
of the phone repaired and that he paid for those  repairs. So I dont require  Assurant to do 
anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1624337