K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly  closed his account and incorrectly said he 
had asked for the account closure.
background
Mr R says HSBC unfairly closed his account  and then told him he had requested the closure. 
He says it was HSBCs  decision  and not his. Mr R says HSBC  has acted in a discriminatory 
way and has failed  to take into account  his disabilities. He also disputes signing an account 
closure document.
HSBC says Mr R attended a branch and asked to withdraw a large amount of money. It says 
it needed identity  proof  and that Mr R later provided it but asked for his account  to be closed. 
HSBC says it received  signed instructions to close the account and gave Mr R the account 
balance. 
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it wasnt  our role to decide  if an anti-discrimination law had been broken as that was 
a matter for a court. The investigator thought HSBC acted appropriately by asking for an 
identity document  and that Mr R had asked for his account to be closed.
Mr R doesnt accept  that view and says the cashier  in the HSBC  branch knew it was him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.  I realise Mr R will be disappointed 
by my decision  and I appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
I agree  with the investigator that its not our role to decide if HSBC  has breached any anti- 
discrimination laws. So I cant fairly make a decision about  that part of Mr Rs complaint. But 
I also make  clear that I have not seen any evidence that HSBC acted unfairly or that 
decision to ask Mr R for an identity document was linked in any way to his disability.
I appreciate that this was Mr Rs money  that he was asking to withdraw. So I appreciate  Mr 
Rs frustration in being asked to provide proof of identity and I accept that he may have 
made previous transactions within  that branch. But I also think  that banks and building  
societies have a duty to protect their customers money  and are entitled to make  a 
commercial decision on what its security measures are. So I dont think  HSBC  acted  unfairly 
or made a mistake by asking Mr R for proof  of identity  when  his signature didnt match.
I think it likely Mr R did provide an identity document  as he did withdraw money from his 
account. So I dont  think he was caused  any significant impact by HSBCs request. I have 
also seen a document on HSBCs records which has Mr Rs signature and asks HSBC to 
close the account. So I think on balance that Mr R asked HSBC to close his account  and that 
he signed a HSBC record to confirm his instructions. In those  circumstances I find HSBC did 
as it was asked  and closed the account  and so didnt  make a mistake  or act unfairly. I think  it 
likely that Mr R was upset  about being  asked  to provide the identity document and as a 
result asked to close his account.
Ref: DRN18066472Overall Im satisfied HSBC has followed Mr Rs instructions and acted  reasonably and so I 
cant fairly ask it do anything further  in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1806647