K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) closed a chargeback claim and when 
he had asked them to re-open it they refused.
background
The investigators background summary covered the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr D and Barclays so I wont repeat it all. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned  something its not 
because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues.   
Mr D said that on the 21 and 22 January 2019  he bought a car from Buy It Now Car Auction 
(the merchant). He made two payments  (£8,000 and £2,529)  using  his Barclays current  
account debit  card, and also paid a cash deposit of £2,000. He later discovered some of the 
parts were  stolen, and so he returned the car and the merchant gave him his £2,000  deposit  
back. The merchant  also told him to contact  his bank for the balance, and so Mr D did by 
raising a dispute  about the two payments  hed made. This was on the 19 February  2019,  
and on the 28 February  Barclays credited his account in the sum of £10,529. 
On the 4 April Mr D told Barclays  that This matter as [sic] been paid back  to me by the 
company in full and they have taken  the car back thanks  to your help so the matter  and the 
dispute can now be closed. On the 21 May,  Barclays then debited his account  with £10,529. 
Mr D subsequently  complained that Barclays wont re-credit  his account as he has told the 
bank that the merchant  hadnt actually paid the money back to his account. 
Barclays have looked again at the matter but say that the scheme rules do not allow for a 
dispute to be re-opened once it has closed.  And they say that the dispute  was correctly 
closed following Mr Ds letter of the 4 April. Mr D was unhappy with Barclays  response and 
so an investigator from this service looked into the complaint  but didnt think  Barclays had 
acted unfairly. As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. What I need  to decide is whether Barclays acted fairly  and reasonably  in how it dealt with 
Mr D. My aim is to ensure that a fair and reasonable outcome has been achieved, which 
means taking into account both Barclays  view and that of Mr D. 
My decisions  are based on the evidence supplied to me. Where such evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely  to have happened in the light of 
that evidence  and the wider circumstances of the case. 
This complaint is about the charge back claim process. A chargeback  claim is a process  by 
which some  disputes  are resolved between card issuers and merchants under the relevant 
card scheme rules. Barclays arent required to ask the scheme provider for a transaction  to 
be reversed, but they can do so if they think its likely to succeed. We generally  we say its 
good practice for a card provider  it to try one if theres  a reasonable prospect of success. 
Equally, if they think the chargeback is likely  to be rejected by the scheme provider  then they 
Ref: DRN10106782dont have to raise it. The chargeback scheme  has strict rules which  apply to all claims, one 
of which  is that its only possible to raise a chargeback claim once.
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have a very unfortunate situation here. I can 
see that when  Mr D contacted Barclays they raised  a chargeback  claim which was denied  by 
the merchants  bank, and the reason appears  to have been a lack of evidence. As a result, 
Barclays wrote to Mr D on the 26 March requesting more information and Mr D responded 
with his letter of the 4 April. Like our investigator I have read that letter  and it seems more  
than clear to me that Mr D was saying the matter was settled because he had received his 
money back from the merchant. I think it was therefore reasonable for Barclays to construe 
his letter  that way. It would appear that Mr D misunderstood who had made  the credits to his 
bank account,  believing  that they were from the merchant and not Barclays. If that was the 
case, then it was a very unfortunate error, but not one caused by Barclays.
I can appreciate that Mr D might have  expected  Barclays to have checked his account to see 
if the money had actually  been returned by the merchant, but I dont think thats a fair 
expectation. It might well have been  the case that the merchant had paid the refund to a 
different account  or paid Mr D in some  other  way. The point is that Barclays  had no reason 
to question Mr Ds very clear letter. So upon  receipt of the clear instruction  from Mr D when 
Barclays closed the dispute, it did so, in my view, correctly. Once the dispute had been 
closed then by strict operation of the chargeback scheme rules it is not possible to raise  it 
again.
Following that Barclays  then debited Mr Ds account  the sum of £10,529.  I appreciate Mr D 
says he was surprised  by that, but I dont think he should have been, because  the letter 
Barclays sent him on the 28 February stated the refund was temporary and pending  the 
outcome of their investigation. That was sufficient to put Mr D on notice  that first of all 
Barclays had refunded the money,  and secondly  that it might  be removed again at the end of 
the investigation. That is the natural meaning of the letter. I know  Mr D will be disappointed  
with my decision  but I have come  to the same  conclusion as the investigator and for similar 
reasons and Im not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1010678