K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS), trading as Skoda Finance, has not 
been of satisfactory  quality.
background 
Mr A took receipt of a new car in October  2017. He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS.
But Mr A experienced  some problems with the car. As follows:
11 December  starter  motor replaced;
22 January and 9 February  problems with the headlights.
In February 2018  he complained to VWFS  and asked to reject the car and get a 
replacement. VWFS upheld his complaint as they agreed thered been  problems. They  
would not allow him to replace the car but they did provide £200 compensation to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
But Mr A subsequently experienced some further  issues with the car.
In November 2018 a faulty  battery  was replaced and steering controls were changed 
as a precautionary measure when a fault could not be identified;
In December 2018  Mr A had problems with the indicators and a software upgrade  
rectified the problem.
Mr A complained again to VWFS but they rejected his complaint. They  explained that these 
faults had been covered by his warranty but they didnt  think  they were responsible for them. 
They explained that they were only responsible  for the quality of the car at the inception  of 
the finance agreement and they didnt think there was evidence these subsequent faults had 
been present  or developing at that point. They did however, offer Mr A a further £50 to 
compensate him for the inconvenience the trips hed made to the dealership  would have 
caused.
So Mr A referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  her opinion. She 
didnt think VWFS had been  unfair. She noted that Mr A had suggested hed complained to 
VWFS in December 2017 and had asked to reject  the car at that point. But she reviewed 
VWFSs call records and could  not find evidence of this. She thought it was therefore  likely 
that Mr A had first complained in early February  2018  and she was persuaded that at that 
point VWFS had acted fairly as Mr A had accepted  the repairs theyd  completed. She didnt 
think there was evidence to link the subsequent  failures to the point of supply and she 
thought VWFSs offer of a further  £50 was fair in the circumstances. She didnt  think  it would 
be reasonable to ask them to take any further action.
But Mr A disagreed with the adjudicator and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN13966142I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr A so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr A. This was a 
new car so I would not expect it to be experiencing any faults.
If faults were  reported on the car after 30 days,  as is the case here, I would expect VWFS  to 
have been given a chance  to rectify them.  I can see that Mr A allowed them to do this and 
Ive not seen evidence that those repairs were unsuccessful. I think VWFSs offer of £200 
was fair in the circumstances  as it was clear  Mr A had been  inconvenienced.  But they were 
entitled to repair the vehicle and I dont think it would have been a fair and proportionate 
response to ask them to allow rejection of the car at that point.
VWFSs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its condition 
at the point of supply  they are not responsible for faults that develop  afterwards such  as 
those relating to wear  and tear. Mr A didnt report any further faults  with the car until 
November 2018  when it had completed about  11,000 miles and had been in his possession 
for over a year. Im not persuaded that theres  sufficient evidence  these subsequent faults  
were present  or developing at the point of supply. Given the age and mileage of the car at 
that point I think its more likely they developed at some later stage.  In those circumstances I 
think VWFSs response and offer of £50 for distress  and inconvenience is reasonable and I 
wont be asking them to take any further action.
Ref: DRN13966143my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1396614