K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain that Yorkshire  Building  Society mis-sold  them  a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs Q took out a mortgage with Yorkshire  Building Society  in 2006. They  took out 
PPI at that time.  It was free for the first 3 months.  They then cancelled this policy.  In 2008,  
PPI was again added to their mortgage  account.  In 2008, Mrs Q called the building  society  
and PPI was added some time after this call was made. Yorkshire  Building  Society  say that 
Mr and Mrs Q applied for the PPI by post. Mr and Mrs Q say that PPI was added without 
their knowledge  and consent  and the cost was wrapped up in the mortgage  payment so they 
didnt know they had PPI.
The policy cost £42.81 per month and covered Mr Q only for accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment. It wouldve covered their mortgage  repayment of £738.15 for up to 12 
months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs Q disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available and looking at the wider 
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Qs complaint. Ill explain why
Yorkshire Building Society no longer  has a copy of Mr and Mrs Qs PPI application. Banks 
often only keep records for six years, so thats  perhaps not unsurprising given how much  
time has passed. But, Yorkshire Building  Society has been able to provide us with a 
summary of the notes  made on its system relating to Mr and Mrs Qs mortgage account.
There is a note made on 1 October 2008,  saying:  
cus called as worried has no redundancy cover. Has dec life insurance also.  Put through to 
[named person] to discuss and review.
On 2 October 2008, the named person records that she sent out Safeguard details. This is 
the product name for Yorkshire Building  Societys  PPI.
On 30 October 2008, the same named person records that customers will send back  if 
interested in Safeguard cant [sic] yet decide.
On 17 November 2008, the record reads mark to call back ref mort protection.
Ref: DRN13212322PPI was added to Mr and Mrs Qs mortgage account on 25 November 2008.
Mr and Mrs Q accept that the phone call was made to the building  society,  but say they 
didnt take PPI out.
Having seen the timeline of events recorded in the system notes made at the time, when 
events were afresh and the business couldnt have known about this complaint,  I think  it 
more likely that Mr and Mrs Q did return the postal application to apply for PPI. I think  its 
more likely thats why PPI was added to their account, because they said they wanted it. I 
think Mr and Mrs Q wouldve  clearly understood they didnt have to have PPI as they had 
cancelled their original  policy after the free period was up. So, I cant  fairly uphold  Mr and 
Mrs Qs complaint on this ground.
I think Mr and Mrs Q applied for the PPI by post.  So, I dont think that Yorkshire Building 
Society recommended this policy to them. But, it did have to give him information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading about  the PPI so that they could  make  an informed choice 
about whether  they wanted  it.
The policy covered Mr Q only even  though  this was a joint mortgage.  In deciding this 
complaint, I have taken  into account  Mrs Qs circumstances too when considering  whether 
the policy was appropriate for them.
I cant see that the PPI was inappropriate for them, given their circumstances at the time. 
I say this because:
Mr Q was eligible to take out the PPI and it appeared affordable;
Mr Q said they were  both earning  similar  money, with Mrs Q being the slightly  higher 
earner. So, he said, it would make  no sense for the policy to be in his name only. 
However, there may have been other  reasons why it was more  appropriate  for Mr Q only 
to be covered. For example, depending on the type of cover they each had through work. 
For example, there was reference  to no redundancy cover in the system notes. But, in 
any event, Yorkshire  Building  Society didnt recommend the policy  to Mr and Mrs Q. So, 
it was up to Mr and Mrs Q to decide whether they wanted joint or single cover.  Yorkshire 
Building Society didnt  advise  them  on this.  And  I cant  see that Mr and Mrs Qs decision 
was so obviously wrong that it leads me to the conclusion that Yorkshire  Building  Society  
didnt give them enough clear  enough information to make an informed choice about who 
should be covered.  
Mr Q didnt appear to be affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions in the 
policy that might have made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim.  So I 
cant see that having better information about this wouldve  led them to make a different 
decision and not take out the policy;
Mr Q said he wouldve  got up to 12 months  worth of sick pay if off work sick. His wife 
was also eligible for sick pay. Mr Q said Mrs Q and their family couldve helped out if he 
wasnt working. So they didnt need  PPI. But, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Qs 
work benefits. And whilst  I accept  that his family may have wanted to help out, help of 
this kind cant always be guaranteed when  the time comes, so I havent placed much 
reliance on this. Given the consequences  of not meeting  his mortgage repayments, I still 
think the PPI couldve  provided them with a valuable benefit to protect their home. It 
wouldve allowed Mrs Qs income  and any benefits Mr Q received through  work to be 
used to meet their other household expenses at what  might  be a difficult time for them 
Ref: DRN13212323financially if Mr Q wasnt working. He wouldve been  covered if he voluntarily lost his job 
too.
Mr and Mrs Q didnt have to pay interest  on the premium and as it was a monthly paid 
policy. So they couldve cancelled it at any time without losing out financially. I think  even 
with clearer or better information Mr and Mrs Q wouldve still taken PPI given that the 
policy appeared appropriate  in his circumstances and affordable.  So, I dont think they 
have lost out because of anything  that Yorkshire  Building Society may have done wrong.
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Qs comments, including  that the cost of PPI didnt 
show separately on his mortgage statement, but these  points  dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1321232