K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in August 
2002 on a credit card. Mrs A says HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct mis-sold her the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mrs As case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Mrs A, HSBC had to make  it clear the policy  was optional. It also
had to get Mrs As agreement to take it out. Mrs A says she did not need the PPI and it was 
not made clear  at any point that the PPI was optional.
We dont have the actual application Mrs A completed to take out the credit card. This is 
unfortunate, but not particularly unusual given how long ago the sale was. But HSBC has
provided a copy of a sample application  from around  the time Mrs A took out her credit card. 
This sample  isnt very clear but from what I can see there is a separate  section  on the form 
about the PPI and it seems Mrs A wouldve had to tick or mark in a box to confirm  she 
wanted this cover. Mrs A wouldnt have spoken to a HSBC representative at the time, so it 
wouldve been for her to review the form and complete the sections independently. 
I think this form is probably the same  or similar  to the one Mrs A wouldve completed.  So I
think its more likely  HSBC made it clear that Mrs A had a choice about taking the PPI, and I
think she chose to take it knowing she didnt have to.
I dont think HSBC recommended  the PPI to Mrs A so it didnt have to check  if it was right for
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs A got the information she needed  to decide if it was
right for her.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Mrs A says she had significant benefits through her employer at the time of sale. She says 
she wouldve received  six months full pay, followed by six months half pay if she was off 
work due to sickness. Mrs A also says she wouldve received a redundancy package if she 
lost her job. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay or redundancy package Mrs A 
wouldve received  and it wouldve paid for up to 12 months if necessary. This wouldve  
allowed Mrs A to use her employer benefits to cover any other expenses  and costs  she may 
have had to cover. I think she wouldve  found the additional  protection the policy  provided 
useful.
The PPI cost Mrs A 73p per £100  of Mrs As monthly statement balance.  There isnt anything 
to show this wasnt affordable to Mrs A. And as the policys premiums were  paid monthly and 
separately detailed  on her statements, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her 
needs. 
Ref: DRN10764132So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A. But HSBC 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs A about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Mrs A, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said, including what  he has said about having 
another accident insurance policy. But it looks like it was taken out in 2006 so some time 
after Mrs A was sold this PPI policy. Mrs A has also said she did not use this credit  card and 
she couldve  paid off the balance without the PPI. However, circumstances can change, and 
Mrs As use of the card couldve varied  over time, and the PPI wouldve provided useful 
protection if something went wrong. I understand Mrs As complaint has been  going on for 
some time and my decision  will come as a disappointment. But for the reasons explained 
above, I dont  think HSBC needs  to do anything more to resolve her complaint. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs A any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already paid some of 
the commission and profit share  to Mrs A so I dont think it needs  to do anymore. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or
reject my decision  before 23 October  2020.
Chandni Green  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1076413