K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that MCE  Insurance  Company  Limited didn't treat him fairly  when  he 
claimed on his motorcycle  insurance  policy.
background
Mr Fs bike was stolen  and he claimed  on his policy.  MCE said that because his bike wasn't 
garaged overnight, as his policy required,  it would double his excess. It added that Mr F also 
hadn't declared a previous claim,  so it would charge him an additional premium  of around 
£102. It said that after deducting those  amounts  Mr F wasn't due anything in settlement of 
his claim.
Mr F didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought that 
MCE had dealt with Mr Fs claim fairly. Mr F didnt agree so his complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
When Mr F took out his policy he said that his bike would be garaged overnight.  But on the 
night of the theft, because his garage  was undergoing repairs,  the bike wasnt  in it. And 
Mr Fs policy says that if the bikes stolen  near to the garage,  but isnt in it, then it will double 
the excess and add a charge of £110. Ive seen that this term is included  in the policys  key 
facts. And Mr F ticked a box to say that hed read the key facts before he bought the policy 
online. So I think he should have been  aware of it. And in those circumstances, I think  that it 
was fair for MCE to apply the policy  terms and double  Mr Fs excess and add an extra  
charge of £110 when calculating what, if any, settlement was due.
MCE valued Mr Fs bike at £1,846.50. But twice  his excess plus £110 charge was £1,860,  
which was clearly more  than the amount  it would  have paid to Mr F. MCE said it would waive 
the £110 charge. But added that, as Mr F hadnt told it about  a previous theft claim when he 
applied for the policy online, it would charge him the extra premium it would have charged if 
it had been aware  of the theft claim,  of around  £102.  So it deducted that from the settlement  
which still meant that there was nothing to pay to Mr F. While its not clear to me why MCE 
chose to waive one additional sum to simply replace it with another,  the outcome for Mr F is 
the same  in as much  as it meant MCE didnt owe Mr F anything in order  to settle  the claim 
for his stolen  bike. And in those circumstances, I think  MCE has reached a fair conclusion to 
Mr Fs claim.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Ref: DRN13845302Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1384530