K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  their term assurance policy  wasnt  cancelled by ReAssure 
Limited after they paid off their mortgage. 
background
Mr and Mrs D took out their policy in 1995 at a monthly cost of £16.92 to cover  their 
mortgage of £59,000 - which  was due to end in 2020. 
In October  2013 Mr and Mrs D paid off their mortgage. They say they sent a letter to 
ReAssure around  the same time asking for their policy  to be cancelled.  
Mr and Mrs D later discovered  the policy hadnt been cancelled.  So, in December 2018 they 
contacted ReAssure and asked it to cancel the policy. They  also asked it to refund the 
premiums they had paid since  October 2013,  totalling £1,065.96 plus interest of £426.38. On 
5 January 2019 ReAssure issued a final response  saying  it wouldnt refund the premiums  as 
it didnt have proof the letter Mr and Mrs D sent cancelling the policy  was received. It also 
said it would  have paid out on any claim even though  the mortgage had been  repaid early.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed  and said ReAssure hadnt  been on risk after the mortgage was 
redeemed. ReAssure wrote to Mr and Mrs D including the terms and conditions  of the policy.  
It said these showed  a claim would have been paid even though  the mortgage had been  
paid off. Mr and Mrs D responded to ReAssure disagreeing  that the terms and conditions 
confirmed it would have  paid out on a claim.  ReAssure responded in writing again on 29 
January and 1 February 2019  saying  it would have carried out a hypothetical  calculation  
assuming the mortgage was still running  with a decreasing balance until 2020 if it had 
received a claim after the mortgage was redeemed in October 2013. Unhappy  with this 
response Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint but didnt  uphold it. She said she couldnt say 
ReAssure had done anything wrong because there  wasnt enough evidence to say it had 
received any instruction  to cancel this policy. And she was satisfied it would have paid out on 
any claim it received after the mortgage was redeemed early. She also felt Mr and Mrs D 
should have noticed the monthly premiums  sooner.  
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. They said they sent a letter asking  to cancel the policy and there 
was no evidence to suggest ReAssure would  have paid out on a claim after the mortgage  
had been repaid. They also asked  if ReAssure could prove if the clause it was relying  on 
was in the policy at the point of sale. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. I know Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed by this so Ill explain why below.
In order for me to ask ReAssure to refund  Mr and Mrs Ds premiums  I need to be satisfied it 
has treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly by not cancelling this policy. And I need to decide if 
Mr and Mrs D were covered (on risk) under the policy after the mortgage was redeemed 
early in October 2013.
Ref: DRN14767132I accept Mr and Mrs D say they sent a letter  cancelling  this policy.  But Im satisfied this 
wasnt received by ReAssure because it continued to take the premiums from their account. 
I havent seen  any evidence which suggests the letter was received and not actioned  by 
ReAssure. So I dont  believe  it has done anything wrong or treated  Mr and Mrs D unfairly  
here. And I agree with the investigator that although  Mr and Mrs D intended on cancelling 
this policy, I think they ought  reasonably have noticed the premiums being taken from their 
account from October 2013 to when the policy was cancelled  in late 2018.
Ive also reviewed the terms and conditions provided by ReAssure. These say a different 
calculation will apply if the mortgage is fully repaid before the sum assured has been paid. 
And the sum assured  will be calculated as the amount that would have been outstanding  
under the mortgage on the date of death. I can see Mr and Mrs D disagree with ReAssure  
and the investigator  on the meaning  of the terms and conditions.  But Im satisfied they show  
that a claim would have  been accepted  under the policy after the mortgage  has been 
redeemed early up until it was cancelled.
I note Mr and Mrs D have asked if the original policy contained the clause ReAssure is 
relying on to say it would  have  met this claim. Im satisfied the clause forms part of this 
policy. So ReAssure can rely on what it says to show it would have paid out on the policy  
after the mortgage was redeemed early.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1476713