K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds actions following a claim he made  on 
his motor insurance policy.
Reference to esure includes  its agents.
background 
Mr Cs car suffered damage after hitting a piece of road furniture  most likely a road sign  
that was lying in the road. He claimed  on his policy and esure repaired his car. Some months  
later Mr Cs car failed its MOT. Mr C thought that was because  of poor repairs following his 
claim. He complained to esure  but it suggested that some of the issues with his car were  pre-
existing. Mr C instructed an engineering firm to send out an independent assessor (the 
assessor) to look at his car. The assessor  said that the headlight  on Mr Cs car was misaligned 
because of poor repairs following the accident. He added that esures  approved repairer hadn't 
identified or repaired  problems with the cars  sub-frame caused in the accident.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think esure  had dealt with Mr C 
fairly. She said the images esure provided indicated  that the damage to the cars sub-frame 
had pre-dated the accident  and repair. And she noted that Mr C hadn't been able to provide  
evidence that hed had the sub-frame  repaired following  an earlier comment  in an MOT test 
report. But she didnt  think it was fair that Mr C had to pay for the assessors  report  himself. 
She also noted that esure hadn't addressed all of Mr Cs points about damage to other areas  
of the car. But she endorsed esures  offer, made  while  the complaint was with us, that it 
appoint an independent engineer to assess the car to establish  the quality of repairs and any 
damage relating  to the repairs and the accident. She said esure should pay Mr C £100 
compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience as it hadn't sorted matters out 
sooner. But she said that any complaint Mr C had following the independent engineers 
assessment and any subsequent repairs would need to be raised as a separate complaint.
Mr C remained  unhappy so his complaint's  been passed to me to decide.
Since our adjudicator  issued her assessments of Mr Cs complaint an independent  engineer 
inspected Mr Cs car. He agreed that there were some issues,  particularly the misaligned 
headlight, that were  a result of poor repairs by esures approved repairer. So, he 
recommended that the repairer should correct those. But he felt that the issues with the cars 
sub-frame were likely to pre-date the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it.
In bringing this complaint both sides have made a number of points and I've considered 
everything theyve said very carefully.  But in this decision I will limit my comments  to the 
points outstanding following Mr C's initial concerns.
Ref: DRN13044372Mr C believes  that esures  repairer didn't properly diagnose the faults with his car and then 
esure put up a smokescreen  by blaming the finding of an earlier MOT. Ill explain that 
during an MOT test in 2015 the tester added an advisory that Mr Cs cars offside front sub-
frame attachment  was slightly  damaged.  And it appears that this was the same  component  
that was one of the causes of Mr Cs car failing its MOT in 2018, some  months  after esure 
repaired the other accident related  damage. So esure believed that the sub-frame was 
already damaged prior to the accident and that additional wear over the ensuing years  had 
caused the component to fail and that failure  wasn't  accident related.
In contrast  Mr C said he thought hed had the sub-frame fixed.  And he noted  that it wasn't 
mentioned during the 2016  or 2017 MOTs, which he says proves that the sub-frame  no 
longer had an issue. Also, Mr Cs assessor said that, given Mr Cs car had run over an object 
in the road,  it was likely  that caused  the sub-frame damage but that esures repairer hadn't 
identified this. 
esure asked  Mr C for evidence that he'd had the sub-frame fixed  following  the 2015  MOT.  
Mr C couldn't find that evidence  although  he believes he had the work done.  I think it was 
reasonable for esure  to request evidence  that this work was done.  As I understand it repairs 
to a cars  sub-frame  would most likely  be a significant and costly job. And I don't  think the 
fact that the MOT test results in 2016 and 2017 didn't refer to the sub-frame proves that the 
fault had been repaired. Instead it simply means that the testers  either didn't identify the fault 
or didn't think they were  required to refer to it in their reports.  So as far as esure was 
concerned there was evidence in the cars  MOT history that the car had a pre-existing issue 
with its sub-frame and Mr C couldn't provide evidence  that hed had the issue  repaired.  
Mr C believes  that esures  repairer didn't appropriately inspect his car initially. And I've noted 
Mr Cs assessors  comments that, given that Mr C had run over an object in the road, the 
repairer should have inspected the underside of the car. But I also know that when Mr C 
reported the incident to esure he didn't say hed run over an object but that hed hit it and it 
had bounced off towards the central reservation.  So, Im not convinced that esures  repairer 
should have known to inspect the underside of the car.
For completeness Ill add that its not clear if Mr Cs assessor inspected the cars underside. 
He inspected the car at Mr Cs home  address and hasn't  commented  whether he put the car 
on a ramp. And he hasn't provided any images of the underside of the car. But esure  has 
provided images of the cars underside  and I've noted that the independent engineer  said 
that the damage this shows most  likely happened some  time before the incident Mr C 
claimed for. And given the levels  of corrosion evident in those pictures  that seems a 
reasonable assessment. So, Im not convinced that esure did anything wrong in not 
arranging repairs to the cars sub-frame initially.
That said there clearly were post-repair issues with the car as identified by both the assessor 
and independent engineer. And I think that esure  should have asked an independent 
engineer to examine the car sooner. But as it didn't do so and Mr C instructed  an assessor 
himself, I think its fair that esure  reimburses Mr C the £180 he paid to the assessor. And as 
hes been without  use of that money, it should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% 
a year from the date Mr C paid it to the date it reimburses him. I understand that esure might 
not think thats fair because its not responsible for much of the delay  in this case. But if 
esure had instructed an independent engineer sooner then its unlikely Mr C would have 
been put to the trouble  of instructing and paying for an assessor himself,  so I think adding  
interest is reasonable in the circumstances.  Also, as this has clearly  caused Mr C some 
inconvenience, I think it should also pay him £100  compensation.
Ref: DRN13044373Im aware that Mr C continues  to be unhappy with the remedial work that esures repairer  
has done to sort out the cars headlight alignment and other issues recommended  by the 
independent engineer. But those  are new issues of complaint so I don't intend to address 
those here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  And - unless it has already 
done so - I require esure Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mr C the £180 he paid to the assessor. esure should add simple interest to 
that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date Mr C paid it to the date it reimburses  him1.
Pay Mr C £100  compensation for his distress  and inconvenience. It should pay the 
compensation within 28 days of us telling  it that Mr C has accepted my final decision. If 
it pays later than this it must  also pay interest  on the compensation from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Me C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If esure considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1304437