K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the compensation MBNA  Limited (MBNA)  has offered to settle her 
complaint about  a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out at alongside 
a credit card.
background
Mrs B applied for a credit card in December  2003 and at the same time took out a PPI 
policy. In 2019  Mrs B complained the PPI was mis-sold. She said she had heard nothing 
from MBNA  and brought her complaint to this service. 
MBNA said it had agreed to uphold the complaint and written  to Mrs B in April 2019  offering 
to pay compensation  of £1,203.86 after tax, to settle  the complaint. It said it had also sent a 
cheque for this amount to Mrs B a few days later.
Mrs B said she never received this offer letter and cheque as it seemed she had changed 
address. MBNA said it would reissue  the cheque for the compensation, but it refused to 
update the compensatory  interest to the date of settlement. A cheque for the original amount 
offered was sent again in August 2019.
Our adjudicator said MBNA should update the compensatory  interest  to the date of final 
payment and also pay £25 for the trouble and upset  caused by how MBNA had handled the 
complaint. Eventually  MBNA agreed  to do this and sent a cheque to Mrs B for £1,243.34, 
which included the updated compensatory interest  and it also made a payment for £25 fort 
the trouble and upset.
Mr B remained unhappy  as she said the matter  had gone on for a long time and she should 
receive more compensation for the trouble and upset. She also said that the compensatory 
interest wasnt calculated  to the date she received the cheque as it took over a month for her 
to receive it. 
Our adjudicator said what MBNA had now paid was fair. Mrs B didnt agree and asked  for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA has agreed to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and pay her compensation for the PPI that 
was mis-sold. So, in this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, but at 
whether what has been  offered in compensation is fair. 
There is no dispute as to the amount that is due to Mrs B to refund the costs she paid for the 
PPI. And looking at the calculations provided which show the total amount of premiums and 
interest, these seem  to be fair. The issue between the parties was the compensatory  interest 
worked out on the amount  Mrs B had been  out of pocket and how long this should  be 
calculated for. 
When MBNA first wrote to Mrs B in April 2019 to offer compensation for the mis-sale and to 
send the cheque, it sent the letter  to the address it had on file for her. But Mrs B had moved 
Ref: DRN19901382property and not pro-actively updated her address on this credit  card with MBNA. Although  
she had been  in contact with MBNA and that correspondence was from her new address.
MBNA agreed to reissue the cheque after the complaint had been brought to this service  
and it has told me recently that it sent a new cheque for the original offer amount of 
£1,203.86 on 8 August 2019  to Mrs Bs new address. This cheque  was cashed on 15 
October 2019. 
When our adjudicator looked  at Mrs Bs complaint about the compensatory interest it was 
clear that the amount of £1,203.86 only included interest up to April 2019 and this cheque 
had never  been  received by Mrs B. So our adjudicator recommended that MBNA should 
recalculate the interest up to the date the final payment  was made to Mrs B. Our adjudicator 
also said MBNA should pay £25 for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs B for the way her 
complaint had been dealt  with.
MBNA at first didnt  agree to this approach as it said it was the fault of Mrs B that the cheque 
wasnt received, as she hadnt updated  her address with the business. However, it 
eventually agreed  it would  update the compensatory interest and pay the £25 for trouble and 
upset. 
When MBNA worked out the additional  compensatory interest it said the total amount of 
compensation due was £1,243.34. And it sent a cheque  for this amount to Mrs B in April 
2020. Mrs B still wasnt happy with this as she said the date of the cheque was nearly a 
month before she received it. MBNA has told us the cheque was cashed  in May 2020.  Mrs B 
also felt she should  get more compensation for the trouble and upset she had been put to as 
it had taken over a year to resolve the matter.
However, when MBNA sent the updated compensatory  interest to Mrs B in April 2020 it paid 
her the full amount of the compensation, that is £1,243.34,  not just the additional 
compensatory interest  that was due, which was around £40.00 after tax. So Mrs B has 
received and cashed two cheques, one in October 2019 for £1,203.86 and one in May 2020 
for £1,243.34, making a total paid to her of £2,447.20 for the compensation. This means she 
has in effect been paid the costs of the PPI twice,  with more compensatory  interest than was 
due. So she has received a lot more  compensation than she should have done. In addition, 
she has received a payment for £25 for trouble and upset.
I would indicate  that the calculation of compensatory interest is to the date of payment. 
Where cheque payments  are made  that would be to the date the cheque is issued, or some  
businesses calculate  to the month end after the date of issue.  It was right that Mrs B should 
receive compensatory interest to the date the cheque was issued to the correct  address, and 
the approach  initially  taken by MBNA  in August  2019, when it reissued the cheque for the 
original amount, wasnt fair. Until Mrs B was sent the cheque  to the correct address she was 
still out of pocket and MBNA was still holding her money, so the compensatory  interest 
needed updating to the date the payment was made   which  was August 2019.
However, once it had paid Mrs B the original compensation offer amount in August 2019, 
she was no longer out of pocket for the costs  of the PPI and the additional amount of 
compensatory interest  was a small amount for just some four months. But it was right Mrs B 
should receive this and some compensation for the trouble and upset she had been put to in 
making sure she did receive the correct amount. 
Ref: DRN19901383The offer of total compensation of £1,243.34 after tax, which  included  the updated 
compensatory interest,  was fair. And I think the £25 for trouble and upset  was also fair. But 
MBNA should have  removed the compensation already paid to Mrs B from the new total 
amount. But it didnt and it sent a cheque for the full £1,243.34.
Due to MBNAs error Mrs B wasnt just paid the updated amount of compensatory interest in 
April 2020, having  already  received and cashed the cheque for the original amount in 
October 2019. She was paid the full amount of compensation  again.  So she has been  paid 
far more than she should have been.
MBNA are not seeking to recover the over payment made due to its error,  which  I also think  
is fair. 
Mrs B has also said she should get extra compensation  because  it has taken over a year to 
resolve this matter. However, she was sent a refund of the PPI costs and some 
compensatory interest  in August 2019, so wasnt out of pocket after this date for the PPI. 
MBNA didnt  handle the complaint as well as it could have done but agreed to pay Mrs B £25 
for the trouble and upset,  which was fair. But she has received the compensation for the PPI 
costs and some of the compensatory interest twice,  so what she has received and is able to 
keep, is more than fair to compensate for the trouble  and upset.
In summary,  based on the evidence I have seen,  I think Mrs B has now been paid far more 
compensation than was actually due to her. She has received full compensation, twice, for 
the costs of the mis-sold  PPI and taking into account  how much extra she has received I 
think she has received  more than adequate compensation for any trouble and upset caused 
by the way MBNA handled her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I am satisfied that the total compensation paid by 
MBNA Limited for the mis-sold PPI is more  than Mrs B should  actually have  received  to 
settle her complaint. So the compensation paid is fair and I am not upholding the complaint 
that any more compensation is due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 October  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1990138