K821x#15complaint
Ms S had complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited  didn't  pay her motorcycle 
insurance claim and voided  her policy. 
Reference to MCE includes its agents.
background
Ms S motorbike was stolen. MCE turned down her claim for the theft and cancelled her 
policy as if it had never existed, known as voidance.
Ms S didn't think that was fair and brought  her complaint to us. Our adjudicator  didn't think  
MCE had dealt with Ms S fairly, so she said it should:
Provide Ms S with a letter to say that the voidance was its mistake; so that she could 
pass this to her motor insurers in order that they could recalculate any premium(s) 
affected by the voidance.  If the motor insurers involved refused to recalculate a 
premium, on receipt of appropriate  evidence, he said MCE should refund Ms S any 
additional premium  she'd  paid as a result, together with 8% simple interest.
Remove the voidance  from internal and external databases and write to her to 
confirm it had done so. 
Settle the claim for the theft of her bike and add simple interest to that settlement.
Pay Ms S £250 to address  her distress and inconvenience.
MCE didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
It might help if I explain at the outset  that when buying an insurance policy,  the consumer is 
required to take reasonable care to answer  an insurers question to the best of their 
knowledge. If the consumer doesn't do so that is known in the insurance  industry  as a 
misrepresentation. And theres some  helpful legislation: the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentations) Act 2012  (CIDRA) that sets out what  insurers  may 
consider to be a misrepresentation  and what they may do when a policyholder has made  
one. 
CIDRA says that where a consumer  has deliberately or recklessly made a misrepresentation 
then the insurer  may void the policy and keep the premiums paid. So I need  to decide if 
Ms S did make a misrepresentation. In order to do so I've thought  about  whether or not MCE 
asked clear and specific  questions; and if Ms S took reasonable care to answer  those.
Ms S initially looked for a quote for her policy online. But she didn't complete the process 
online and rang MCE in order to buy it. During that call MCE asked her where she kept her 
bike overnight. Ms S replied:
Ref: DRN10954042private garage - private lock up
MCE then asked Ms S what  materials the garage was constructed  of and completed the sale 
of the policy  recording  that her bike was kept in a garage.  After it learned of the theft MCE 
looked into where Ms S kept her bike overnight, which was a lockable parking area 
underneath the building she lived in. It said that this wasn't a garage. It added that the policy  
defines a garage  as:
a lockable brick and concrete, concrete, steel, stone or wooden  building with a roof 
constructed of slate, tile, steel or wood in which to park or keep a motor vehicle, for your sole 
purpose.
It said that Ms S kept her bike in a residential parking area and as such  it wasn't for her sole 
purpose. And in saying she kept her bike in a garage Ms S had made a misrepresentation. 
It added that, prior to completing the policy purchase  over the phone  Ms S had looked for 
quotes online. It said that while doing  so, she asked for two quotes with different  information: 
one saying that she kept the bike in a garage;  and another saying  it was in a locked  
compound. MCE said that the quote  for the locked compound was significantly higher  than 
the quote saying the bike was garaged. So it thought Ms S had deliberately misrepresented 
her position  in order to get a cheaper premium. On that basis  it refused to pay her claim and 
voided her policy.  But I don't  think that was fair.
It's notable  that Ms S didn't buy the policy online.  Instead she phoned and spoke with MCE 
the following  day. I've listened  to that call. At its outset MCE told Ms S that it would be easier 
for her to complete the purchase online as she wouldn't  have to run through all the details 
again. But Ms S said it was fine to run through those  again. And some  of the detail  Ms S 
provided during  that call was different to the information provided when she looked for online 
quotes. For example  she said she wanted cover for carrying pillion passengers,  which she 
hadn't included in the online quote.  And Ms S commented that shed been tired while looking 
for a quote online. So I don't think it was fair for MCE to rely on information Ms S had 
provided while looking for an online quote, as that wasn't the information  with which she 
bought the policy. And MCE had the opportunity  to ask Ms S any clear and specific question 
it wanted to while she was on the phone  in order to find out the appropriate level of cover.
As I've said above Ms S didn't give a straightforward  answer  when asked where she kept her 
bike in that she said she kept it in a private garage   private  lock up. But MCE didn't ask 
her which one it was or what she meant by that. MCE later learned  that Ms S kept her bike 
overnight in a fairly secure underground  garage. It seems that a number of other residents of 
her building will have access to this garage. So I don't think  that area meets  the policy 
definition of being for Ms S sole purpose.  But MCE didn't ask Ms S if the bike was kept 
somewhere being used  for her sole purpose . It simply asked her where  she kept it. And, 
apart from the postcode and the materials it was built from, MCE didn't ask her any further 
questions about  the storage area when it had the opportunity to do so. 
Also I note that the comparison  site Ms S used when looking for quotes online didn't define  
garage or locked compound. So I don't think it would have been clear to Ms S exactly what  
the comparison site meant by garage  or locked compound. Similarly, while her garage 
wasn't for Ms S sole use, it was lockable and protected by security  cameras. And it didn't 
have public access; so I think it was reasonable that she described it as private.  And I don't 
think Ms S would have  known what MCEs definition of a garage was at the time it asked her 
where she kept her bike overnight.
Ref: DRN10954043In contrast  MCEs said that when  looking  for quotes  online Ms S would have had to tick a 
box to say that shed  read the policys key facts which include the definition of garage above. 
But as I've already said Ms S didn't complete the sale online  - she did so over the phone.  So 
Im not persuaded she read the key facts  while looking  for online quotes. And I don't think  its 
fair for MCE to rely on information  from the online sales journey, which Ms S didn't complete, 
to assume that Ms S knew  that the garage needed to be for her sole purpose.  Also the 
telephone call was MCEs opportunity  to put any relevant, clear and specific  questions it 
wished to Ms S to ensure  it was offering the right level of cover. But it didn't ask her 
questions that would  have found out whether or not the storage area was for her sole 
purpose or met its definition of garage. It follows that I dont think  it asked her clear and 
specific questions.
MCEs added that around ten months after Ms S bought her policy it sent her an email  which  
provided further clarification of its definition of a garage. That email  is clear that Ms S 
parking area didn't meet the policy definition of a garage.  The email suggested that if Ms S 
was unsure whether her parking area met the definition she should  contact it. It said that as 
she didn't contact it this shows deliberate  misrepresentation. But I don't agree. It seems  
this was a generic email it sent to a number of its customers.  And it wasn't  sent in 
connection with the sale or renewal of a policy. So I dont think  MCE can reasonably rely on 
an email - sent months  after it sold a policy - as evidence  Ms S deliberately  misrepresented 
her position  ten months earlier.
Having weighed all the evidence very carefully  I think Ms S did take reasonable care to 
answer MCEs questions  at the time she took out her policy.  So I don't think  she made a 
misrepresentation as defined  in CIDRA.  It follows that I don't think  it was fair for MCE to 
refuse to pay her claim  and void her policy. 
So in order to put things right I think  that MCE should:
Provide Ms S with a letter  to say that the voidance was its mistake so that she may pass it to 
her subsequent motor  insurers  in order that they could  recalculate any premium(s) affected  
by the voidance. If the motor insurers involved refuse to recalculate a premium, on receipt  of 
appropriate evidence,  MCE should  refund Ms S any additional premium she'd paid as a 
result of the voidance, together  with 8% simple interest from the date she was charged the 
premium to the date it refunds her.
Remove the voidance  from internal and external databases and write to her to confirm it had 
done so.  This can be incorporated with the letter  above.
Settle Ms S claim  for the theft of her bike and add simple interest  at a rate of 8% a year to 
that settlement  from the date of Ms S claim  to the date it makes payment.
Pay Ms S £250 to address  her distress and inconvenience that has been  caused by the 
unfair voidance  of her policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  this complaint in part. I require MCE Insurance 
Company Limited:
Provide Ms S with a letter to say that the voidance was its mistake so that she may 
pass it to her subsequent  motor insurers in order that they could recalculate  any 
Ref: DRN10954044premium(s) affected by the voidance.  If the motor insurers  involved refuse to 
recalculate a premium, on receipt of appropriate  evidence, MCE should refund Ms S 
any additional premium  she'd paid as a result  of the voidance, together  with 8% 
simple interest per year from the date she was charged the premium  to the date it 
refunds her1.
Remove the voidance  from internal and external databases and write to her to 
confirm it had done so. This can be incorporated with the letter above.
Settle Ms S claim for the theft of her bike and add 8% simple interest per year to that 
settlement from the date of Ms S claim to the date it makes payment.
Pay Ms S £250 to address  her distress and inconvenience that has been  caused by 
the unfair voidance  of her policy.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Ms S has accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If MCE considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms S how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Ms S a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN1095404