K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A have  complained about Saga  Services Limited. It has refused to reimburse  
premiums they paid for a home insurance policy which Mr and Mrs A say was set up for a 
property they dont own.
background
Mr and Mrs A arranged  cover via Saga in December 2013. They provided it with their 
bank details for premiums  to be taken. Saga sent policy  documents to the insured 
address. In September 2014, having  forgotten about arrangements  made  via Saga, 
Mr and Mrs A arranged  cover for their property via a different provider.
In late 2018 Mr and Mrs A noticed  two payments coming from their bank account. They 
thought they must have two policies  arranged for their property and made contact with 
Saga and the other provider to arrange reimbursement of 50% of each premium  based on 
them having  been dually insured.
It transpired that the address on the Saga policy was for a property  that Mr and Mrs A 
dont and have  never owned. The request  for a dual insurance refund was refused. Saga  
also said it wouldnt refund any of the premium  paid by Mr and Mrs A as it had been 
providing the cover applied for in good  faith,  any error regarding the address was not of its 
making. Mr and Mrs A complained to us.
Our investigator said there was no evidence that Saga had made  a mistake. As such  she 
didnt think it would  be fair to make  Saga  refund any money. Mr and Mrs A said that this 
argument didnt  answer the issue that the policy  in their name for a property they dont 
own  was of absolutely no worth.
The complaint was passed  to me and I felt it was clear an error had occurred regarding  
the cover  offered by Saga. But also that Mr and Mrs A had clearly intended to be covered 
by Saga for the property  they own. I also felt that if a claim had occurred Saga would likely 
have accepted an error had occurred and that the property in question was covered. 
Therefore I felt Saga should reasonably act as though dual insurance had been in place 
and arrange reimbursement of premiums subject to some deductions reasonably allowed 
for by the agreement  Mr and Mrs A had entered into with it.
In responding  to my provisional findings, Saga said it had no comment  to make.  
Mr and Mrs A said their only reservation was that my decision didnt allow  for the fact the 
other insurer had already  refused any refund on the basis that there hadnt been  dual 
insurance in place because the cover with Saga was for a different address. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I am satisfied  by my 
provisional findings and they are now (copied below) the findings of this my final decision. 
Ive commented  at the end regarding Mr and Mrs As concerns.
Strictly speaking the Saga policy  didnt really ever bear any actual  risk. Thats because 
Mr and Mrs A didnt  carry any insurance risk for the property  that the policy was set up 
Ref: DRN12349062against. But that address was clearly only ever input in error.  Mr and Mrs A had applied to 
Saga for cover for their property and intended  to be insured with/via Saga.
Saga says it didnt make  an error  and Mr and Mrs A say they insured their property. There 
is no evidence available  from when the policy was arranged that might help me decide  
which party  is correct. That means  there  is no way to know which party  is most likely  
responsible for the situation that arose.
But in late 2018  Mr and Mrs A approached Saga on the basis  of what  they considered  to 
be dual insurance.  Saga, at that time, found there  wasnt  any dual cover and denied 
responsibility for having input an incorrect address. I think it failed Mr and Mrs A by giving 
such a dismissive answer. Saga, I think,  at this point, as the arranger  and administrator  of 
the policy, should have recognised that this was a situation where, if the error had been 
noted the address would have been corrected, any claim would always  have been paid 
and, if that correction had occurred after September 2014, from September  2014 
onwards, the property  would have been subject  to dual insurance.
On that basis Mr and Mrs A were reasonably entitled to some  refund of premium.  I think  
Saga should  reasonably have recognised this. And because of the way Saga arranges  
cover (through a panel it arranges, with premiums  it sets,  and subject to it being entitled to 
taking various charges), I think it was always up to it to organise any refund of premiums.  
It didnt do that and Im satisfied that means it failed Mr and Mrs A.
That being  the case, I can make  a finding as to what Saga reasonably needs to do to put 
matters right. In deciding  that Ive kept in mind  that it was always Mr and Mrs As intention  
to be covered by Saga.  So the terms they initially agreed have relevance. Im also 
conscious that most policyholders dont  want to have a gap in their cover  history.  Ive 
taken note that Saga was happy to arrange cover  for Mr and Mrs A and I think  its unlikely 
that the numerical error  in the address  would  have impacted that decision.  Finally, as 
I said above, I havent seen that Saga most  likely caused the address error. Taking all that 
into consideration I require Saga to:
Amend the address on the policy, to reflect  the property that should always  have been 
insured, from inception in December  2013.  Changing details carries a fee under the 
terms of cover.
Mark its policy as having been cancelled by Mr and Mrs A at the point the dual 
insurance was discovered in late 2018.  Under the terms  in place there  is a fee for 
cancellation.
Calculate  what premium has been paid by Mr and Mrs A for the cover from 
September 2014 until cover ended in 2018 following discovery of the error/dual  cover.
From that total Saga can deduct  an amount for having changed  the address and 
cancelled the policy.
Saga should divide the remaining premium cost in half. This final amount should be 
paid to Mr and Mrs A in recognition of the property having been subject to dual 
insurance between  September  2014 and late 2018.
Pay interest*  on the final amount from a date two months after the address error  first 
became apparent  and until settlement is made.
Im not going  to require Saga to pay compensation here. Im not persuaded its fair to do 
so when the initial error that led to everything  else hasnt been shown to be its fault. 
My decision  here can only focus  on Saga but now Mr and Mrs A have a decision which  
Ref: DRN12349063finds that there was, to all intents and purposes, dual insurance in place,  they can inform 
their other insurer and ask it to review its position. If they are unhappy with its response 
they can make a further complaint. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Saga  Services Limited to make  a reimbursement 
payment to Mr and Mrs A, in-line  with my bulleted directions above (which  include 
interest*).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Saga Services 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs A, 
it should  tell them how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs A a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1234906