K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains he was unsuitably advised by Hartley Wadsworth & Partners (HWP) to 
transfer his Section 32 plan benefits to a personal pension plan. As a result of this transfer  
his representative  has said he lost the valuable  guaranteed  minimum pension that the 
section 32 had to pay at age 65.
background
In my provisional decision I concluded that had Mr B been made aware  of the scale  of 
benefits he was giving  up by transferring it is likely he would have  kept his section  32 plan. 
My reasoning was set out in my provisional  decision, a copy of which  is attached and forms 
part of my final decision.
Mr Bs representative confirmed his agreement to the conclusions  I had reached.  HWPs 
solicitors disagreed. In summary it said:
-I had made no reference  in my provisional decision to their two previous submissions 
which made it appear they had not been taken into account.
-Mr Bs representative had alleged that HWP were motivated by the potential commission 
they would  receive. This they said was plainly wrong as HWP retained no commission in 
respect of either the transfer out of the section 32 or the subsequent  transfer  to the SIPP.
-Mr B was an intelligent man who at the time to the transfer was supervising  a large and 
highly complex warehouse facility.
-My view on causation was not supported by the facts. All the evidence pointed  to Mr B 
not being prepared to wait until age 65 to access his pension  funds. When  HWPs 
representative met Mr B it was clear from the background information that Mr B knew he 
was giving up a guaranteed income at age 65. But Mr B told the representative that he 
had no intention of working anywhere near that long. And as stated  in HWPs letter  to us 
dated 23 December  2015 they had told him of the valuable guarantees if he held the 
policy in situ until age 65.
-Mr Bs actions  clearly showed  his unwillingness  to work to age 65. He retired  many years 
ago and remains retired. It was wrong to suggest  that HWP would have been able to 
encourage him successfully to continue working  until the age of 65.
-I had referred to being unable to safely conclude thatMr Bwould certainly have 
continued with the transfer . But they said there  was no requirement for certainty when 
assessing matters  on the balance of probabilities.  I should  assess the case  based  on the 
evidence and what was more likely than not to have  happened. All the evidence points 
clearly to the conclusion that Mr B would not have been prepared  to wait until age 65 to 
access his pension  funds. 
-The provisional decision applied todays  regulations in considering what  had happened 
11 years  ago. HWPs actions should  be considered in light of what  was reasonable 
practice at the time. In 2007  it was not standard practice to provide written  reports  on 
advice not to do something, unlike it is now. The fact that HWPs advice not to transfer 
was not documented does not mean  it was not given.
Ref: DRN17213402-In 2007 there was no distinction between execution-only and insistent clients.  Mr B 
wanted to do something  against  HWPs advice therefore this was treated as being 
without advice and Mr B signed a disclaimer to this effect.
HWPs representative also raised the following points  with regard to the basis  of 
compensation that I set out in my provisional decision:
-It said it needed more  information to be able to consider the question of redress. It asked 
if Mr B had agreed  compensation with his previous adviser and asked for details of the 
compensation and the amount of any compensation paid and whether it had been  
invested into a pension.
-He would only have  received the guaranteed benefits from his section 32 at age 65. 
Therefore it said that any payment made to Mr B before this age should be discounted to 
allow for accelerated  receipt.
-Mr B has already taken considerable benefits  in respect of the transfer  that was paid out 
of the section 32, including tax free cash, income  drawn down, annuity income and 
savings on mortgage costs over many  years. It said that it will be many years past the 
age of 65 before he experiences any detriment to his finances in terms of the total 
benefits received.  
-It did not accept that compensation at 8% should be payable.  There  was no basis  for the 
application of judgment rate interest.  It said that any rate should not exceed Bank of 
England base rates to reflect the rate Mr B could have received on the funds if he had 
received them at an earlier date. It said they were awaiting the further information 
requested before  they would be in a position to comment further  on the issue  of redress.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, this includes the submissions from HWPs representative of 
28 September 2017, 15 January 2018 and 3 September 2018.
I am grateful for the submissions from both parties  in response to my provisional  decision. 
But I trust they will understand that I only intend  addressing those issues  I consider relevant 
to my final decision. It is not my intention to address  every point raised.
The critical reason I set out in my provisional decision for upholding this complaint was: 
But my concern is that had Mr B been made  aware  of the scale of benefits he was giving up 
on transferring, that is the GMP at age 65, it is likely he would have  made a different 
decision in relation to his then need  to raise  cash. There  is such a disparity between the 
benefit foregone  and the tax free cash raised  that I cannot safely conclude  that had Mr B 
been fully informed of the consequences of his actions  that he would certainly  have 
continued with the transfer.
He may have chosen to raise the cash elsewhere; he may have  decided  to do nothing;  or he 
may have  decided to proceed anyway. I cannot know for sure.  But as he was clearly  not fully 
informed at the time he transferred, I cannot safely agree that he would have proceeded to 
Ref: DRN17213403transfer regardless. In my view, more weight is being placed on the evidence for this than it 
can reasonably  bear.
On balance, I think it more likely  he would  not have transferred and retained the benefit of 
the GMP and then reconsidered  his options if he chose at a later date to retire early.
I am not persuaded HWPs  representative  has provided substantive evidence to cast doubt 
on my conclusion above. 
I have carefully considered the comments made by HWPs representative in its submission 
of 15th January 2018.  But in my view,  it is its later submission of 3rd September  2018 that 
contains its substantive points in rejecting the conclusion I reached  in my provisional 
decision. Its submission of 3rd September reiterates  and expands on points raised in its 
earlier submission so it is this submission that I consider most relevant to my decision. 
In its submission of 3rd  September 2018,  it said HWP, contrary  to the assertion of Mr Bs 
representative, was.  not motivated by potential commission in their dealings with Mr B.  
and that HWP had no financial nor any other  motive to deliberately steer  Mr B towards a 
detrimental course of action.
It also said that Mr B is an intelligent man who at the time of the transfer  of the Clerical 
Medical pension,  was in charge of supervising  a large and highly  complex warehousing 
facility.
It continued ..HWP had told Mr B in a telephone call that the Clerical  Medical  fund 
provided valuable  future  income guarantees as long as it was left in situ until his 65th 
birthday. It also said that there is absolutely no evidence to support the ombudsmans  
(provisional) conclusion that Mr Bs objective would have changed if HWP  had advised  him 
not to transfer  from Clerical Medical.
It also raised a Further Issue. It said that The provisional decision appears  to apply todays 
regulations to the position 11 years ago which is not appropriate. HWPs actions  should  be 
considered in the light of reasonable practice  at the time of the matters which are 
complained about. 
It added that The fact that HWPs advice  not to transfer the Clerical Medical pension was 
not documented in a report to Mr B does not mean  that it was not given.
In respect of my provisional redress direction, it made a number of points, including that Mr 
B would unreasonably  benefit from an accelerated redress payment, had received 
drawdown income, tax free cash and annuity  income, as well as saving on mortgage costs.
It also said that my proposed interest rate to be applied to any redress,  at 8%, was 
unreasonable. It should instead be limited to the Bank of England base rate.
Taking each of the points in the submission of 3rd September  2018, I comment  as follows.
In respect of commission, potential or otherwise, that may have  been  realised by HWP in 
advising Mr B, I have  no further comment.  It is not relevant  to the central  issue  of whether or 
not Mr B was fully informed of the financial consequences of transferring his funds to a SIPP. 
Ref: DRN17213404In respect of HWPs representatives assertion that Mr B is an intelligent  man I accept that 
is the case. But I do not agree that it follows from this that he has knowledge  or expertise in 
financial or pension  related  matters. Nor does  it follow that supervising  a large and highly 
complex warehousing facility would explicitly or implicitly  lead me to conclude he had 
knowledge of such matters.
I accept that at the time,  Mr B wanted to transfer his funds and apply these to reducing  his 
debts and possibly  emigrate. But the crux of my provisional decision was that Mr B pursued  
these objectives  without the consequences of his actions being fully explained to him. The 
only evidence that this was done  is HWPs representatives assertion that the consequences 
were explained  in a telephone call. 
HWPs representative says although the financial consequences of Mr B transferring his 
funds was not documented it does not mean  its advice to Mr B not to transfer was not given. 
I agree.  But equally, it also could mean that such advice was not given.  
I have not seen contemporaneous evidence of the telephone call HWPs representative 
relies on in saying  HWP advised Mr B against  transferring  his funds. Mr B denies  ever 
receiving such a call. I do not think it would be fair or reasonable for me to reject  Mr Bs 
complaint on the basis of such  an unsubstantiated assertion. 
I acknowledged in my provisional  decision  that Mr B might anyway have  proceeded with the 
transfer and SIPP even if the consequences of such had been explained to him. But the key 
point is that there is no persuasive evidence that this happened.
I do not accept HWPs representatives  further  assertion that I am retrospectively  applying 
rules that apply now to circumstances  in 2007.  HWP  clearly  had extensive  dealings with 
Mr B at the time. It owed him a regulatory duty of care to ensure whatever decisions he took 
were from a fully informed position. That was not the case here. 
In respect of HWPs comments about the applicable interest rate for the redress  calculation,  
8% is the rate of interest this service applies as a matter  of course unless  there are 
compelling reason  to apply a different rate. HWPs representative says that Mr B should only 
receive the rate .which Mr B could  have earned  on the funds  if he had received them at 
an earlier date. 
But this services approach is that 8% simple interest per year is appropriate  to reflect  the 
cost of being deprived of money  in the past. Thats because only individual  consumers and 
the smallest businesses/trusts/charities can use our service. If they needed to borrow  money  
to cover a loss its possible they would have been  charged more  than 8%. It doesnt  just 
reflect lost opportunities to save or invest.  A complainant  might  also have gone without other 
things really needed or might have benefited from because  they didnt have the money.
I should also explain that it is simple interest,  not a compound rate. And the interest we 
award is potentially  subject to income tax. It is also consistent with the current statutory 
interest rate on judgment debts.
In summary,  I am not persuaded to change  my conclusion in my provisional decision that:
There is such a disparity  between the benefit  foregone and the tax free cash raised that I 
cannot safely conclude  that had Mr B been fully informed of the consequences  of his actions 
that he would certainly  have  continued  with the transfer.
Ref: DRN17213405The submissions from HWPs  representative do not, in my view,  contradict the crux of that 
decision, that Mr B was not fully informed.  Accordingly, I uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons set out above. 
Hartley Wadsworth & Partners Ltd must  redress Mr B as I have set out below.
A fair and reasonable outcome is for Hartley Wadsworth & Partners  Ltd to put Mr B, as far as 
possible, into the position he would  now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Hartley Wadsworth & Partners Ltd must  undertake a redress  calculation  in line with the 
regulators pension review  guidance  as most recently updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
The calculation should be carried  out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken by an appropriately qualified firm that 
can carry out the calculation promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance  of 
the decision.
Hartley Wadsworth & Partners Ltd may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into SERPS/S2P entitlement  account the impact of transferring his benefits out of 
the section 32 plan on Mr Bs 
If the redress calculation  shows there  is a loss, compensation  should if possible be paid into 
a pension plan held by Mr G. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If it isnt possible to pay the redress sum due into a pension plan then it should be paid 
directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for the income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
Ref: DRN17213406Had Mr B retained his section 32 the whole fund would have been used to provide a taxable 
income. So any compensation paid can be adjusted to allow for Mr Bs likely income tax 
position at age 65. On the assumption  that he will be a basic rate tax payer, a deduction of
20% can be made.
 The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr B 
within 90 days of the date Hartley Wadsworth  & Partners Ltd receives notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest must be added to the compensation amount 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement 
for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Hartley Wadsworth & Partners Ltd to pay 
Mr B this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation  is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont  apply.
I am aware  that Mr B used the tax free cash to reduce his then mortgage on June 1st 2007.  
Hartley Wadsworth & Partners Ltd may take the benefit that Mr B accrued from this 
reduction to his mortgage, between that date and its otherwise redemption  date of 
11th March 2012, into account  in calculating redress.
My understanding is that the redress calculation,  if conducted in accordance  with the most 
recent guidance from the regulator for such calculations,  will take into account any redress  
payments already received by Mr B from other parties and benefits received as a result of 
the transfer and subsequent receipts from his pension, in respect of the transactions he 
complains of.
Mr B must provide details to Hartley  Wadsworth  & Partners Ltd of any such  payments.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.   
                         
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17213407Copy Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr B complains he was unsuitably advised by Hartley Wordsworth & Partners (HWP) to transfer his 
Section 32 plan benefits to a personal pension plan.
background
In 1995 Mr B was advised  by a different business to transfer  out of a final salary occupational pension 
scheme ('OPS') to a section 32 plan. This plan took over the responsibility to provide the GMP. The 
GMP at the date of leaving his employer's  scheme  was roughly £1,200  and was revalued at 7.5% a 
year. At age 65 he was guaranteed a pension  of at least £9,800 a year.
In 2007 he transferred the value of the section 32, £66,318.22 (of which  £29,418.01  was protected 
rights) to a group personal pension ('GPP'). Hartley Wadsworth & Partners Ltd ('HWP') was the 
servicing agent on this scheme and received  commission  on the transaction. Before  the transfer went 
ahead, Mr B signed a disclaimer that said:
"This is to confirm that neither your Company nor its representatives  have  given  any advice in 
relation to the transfer of pension benefits from my former pension  scheme into my present 
pension scheme. I have  made the decision  to transfer these benefits  of my own volition. I 
recognise that neither  your company nor its representatives  can be in any way held responsible 
for this decision."
A complaint about the advice to transfer out of the OPS given by his former advisers was upheld.  
But he understood that in calculating  compensation that business used a notional value  of the 
section 32. This was on the basis that it had remained in force  and would benefit from the GMP  at 
age 65.
The value of the benefits  in the GPP  were much lower than the section 32. As a result Mr B's 
representative raised a complaint on his behalf so he could be compensated for the further loss 
caused by the later transfer.
In response to the complaint HWP wrote to Mr B. It said it didn't provide any advice and pointed 
to the disclaimer  confirming this.
In HWP's  letter to us it repeated that it didn't  give any advice about  the transfer"...  other than to 
verbally advise him that it was a pension  fund with guaranteed  future  income and that as such  we 
were not in a position to provide him with advice." It also said he was told he should seek assistance 
from an appropriately qualified  adviser.
As a result  of not giving advice HWP  said there was little information on its file. But it did say HWP  
met with Mr B in December 2006 at which  point he was already  an active member of the GPP that it 
had serviced  for a number of years.
At this meeting it said Mr B asked it to obtain details of the deferred  pension he had in the section 32. 
It referred to him being " ...very keen to explore the opportunity to release pension funds early  to 
repay some debt and retire early, possibly  abroad."
Having received  the information on the section 32 HWP said "...what was clear  from the albeit brief 
document was that the guaranteed benefits payable  from this plan were far more valuable  than the 
transfer value offered." It said that "This conclusive document was sent to [Mr B] and I telephoned him 
to say whilst  we were  unable to give him any further advice regarding this contract it was clear that 
the fund provided valuable future income  guarantees so long as it [was}left in situ until his 65th 
birthday."
Ref: DRN17213408According to HWP after this conversation Mr B called its office and spoke to an administrator. Mr B 
told the administrator  that he understood he could take the initiative  to start the transfer himself: "As 
he was absolutely certain of his intentions to access  funds early ..." Apparently "... he was planning to 
pay off some loans, retire early and emigrate to Spain."
HWP said Mr B was told " ... whilst  it was possible to transfer without advice, this would be reckless 
and that he would need to sign a disclaimer  making it clear  that this action wasn't  a result of any 
advice received from us." HWP said Mr B was "insistent' stating he had done the "necessary  
calculations" for himself  and asked for the documents to be sent for him to complete.
Following the transfer HWP said Mr B contacted the office again  to arrange a meeting so that he 
could access his pension funds early. A meeting was arranged and a self-invested personal pension  
('SIPP') was set up and in May 2007 Mr B accessed his tax-free cash. He was 50 years old. At this 
meeting HWP said it explained the risks of taking monies  early but he was adamant  that this was 
what he wanted to do.
HWP said Mr B showed  the calculations he had carried  out about releasing £16,500 for the 
repayment of some outstanding debt as the first stage of his plan to retire early and move abroad. It 
also referred to the reason why letter  dated 9 May 2007 being sent that made  him aware of the risks 
associated with taking benefits. It also said that in 2012 an annuity was arranged with an adviser from 
HWP.
HWP has also provided  copies of calculations  it says were prepared  by Mr B. These estimated what  
his pension funds might be worth in five years and the pension that might be provided. It also 
estimated the savings  that might be available  if he used tax-free cash to repay  his mortgage and his 
wife's car loan.
Mr Bs representative said the guarantees  on his plan weren't explained. All that was discussed was 
the transfer value that was available. He also said that Mr B had no recollection of ever being  told that 
the guarantees were  far more  valuable  than the transfer value offered. He questioned why if what  
HWP said was true it had put nothing  in writing.
HWP said that Mr B was aware  of the guarantees. The "conclusive  document' to which it referred  the 
adjudicator said was the section 32 projection dated 22 December 2006.  This confirmed  that the 
transfer value of the plan was £64,231.08 and the GMP at state pension age was £9,815.36 a year.  
The projections  based  on rates of returns of 5% and 7% showed a projected pension equal  to the 
GMP. The 9% rate of return  showed a pension  of £15,600 might be available. The document also 
confirmed that "You are guaranteed to receive  at least the Guaranteed  Minimum Pension ..."
The recommendation  letter about setting up the SIPP was dated 9 May 2007.  In summary  this said:
Mr B's main objective was to access some  funds  now (£16,500) to allow  him to meet his "...long  term 
of objective of repaying his mortgage". He had been planning this course  of action for some time and 
"...had recently chosen to amalgamate some funds from a previous pension provider (against  our 
advice) with the same objective in mind..." to prepare for early retirement. "Whilst repaying  debts  and 
even your mortgage early  may seem attractive we are concerned to ensure that you have carefully 
considered this course of action because it may seriously affect your future wealth..."
While it was his intention to retire much earlier than the state pension  age he would continue to work 
for now. And as a result  he didn't intend to draw an income from the SIPP.
Mr B's representative told the adjudicator  that Mr B used some of the lump sum he received to pay off 
his mortgage and the balance to pay for a holiday.
In 2012, aged 55 Mr B used the two pension funds he held to buy an annuity.  The recommendation 
letter said that once  "...the  tax-free lump  sum is received  and you have downsized your home, you will 
Ref: DRN17213409have sufficient  personal monies to act as an emergency fund as required.  "And that he was accessing 
his pension fund early "...due to a lifelong plan not to work  to normal retirement  age."
It was recorded that for this investment he had a very cautious  attitude to risk. And after taking the 
maximum tax-free cash of £11,634, a level pension of £3,570 a year could be provided. This included  
a 100% spouse's pension and a 10 year guarantee. The actual  pension that was set up was for 
£3,473.52 a year.
Mr B's representative said that Mr B wasn't currently working but he hadn't  retired and intended  to 
seek work. He also said that he sold his house in February 2015 for £150,000  and currently lives in a 
mobile home which cost about £70,000.
In the representative's submissions he made a number of points to support why the complaint should  
be upheld. In summary:
HWP failed in its duty of care to Mr B. He estimated the GMP lost would potentially  have been worth 
£250,000. He questioned HWP's argument that the transfer was carried out on an execution only 
basis. He pointed  to the fact that the personal pension provider was providing information to HWP  and 
not direct to Mr B. It was also clear that HWP completed the discharge  and application forms.  And he 
asked how Mr B would even  have known he could  transfer to a SIPP unless he was told.
Even had HWP explained  the benefits associated with the GMP  to Mr B and then asked that he 
complete a disclaimer  he "still would  not have been enamoured with it." He felt in such a situation an 
adviser should be refusing to carry out such a transaction.
He questioned how Mr B would have known what a pension of £9,815.37 a year was really worth 
without being put into context. Most people if asked would say they would like to retire before 65. But 
what advisers should be saying in cases  such as Mr B's is "stick  to your mundane drudgery for the 
next 15 years,  clear  your debts  and pay as much money as you possibly can into your pension etc...."
In answer to why HWP didn't give such advice he said it was because  commission was driving it. 
HWP should  have given Mr B the chance to make an informed  choice. This was denied to him 
because of HWP's negligence.
It was the adjudicator's view that the complaint shouldn't be upheld.  He noted  that in rejecting  
the complaint HWP said the transfer out of the section 32 was completed on an execution  only 
basis. In arguing this it pointed to the disclaimer that Mr B signed.
And in the letter setting out the recommendation to set up the SIPP dated 9 May 2007 the adviser  
specifically said that "you recently chose to amalgamate some funds  from a previous pension 
provider (against our advice)." HWP also said that it had specifically  told Mr B that it wasn't a 
good idea to transfer because of the guaranteed  benefits on the plan.
The adjudicator referred to the term execution only being defined as "a transaction executed by a 
firm upon the specific instructions of a client where  the firm does not give advice on investments 
relating to the merits of the transaction."
He felt it was clear the transfer out of the section 32 plan wasn't  carried out on an execution only 
basis as HWP accepted  that it did give advice  about the merits  of the transaction. The 
adjudicator also felt that the transfer out of the section 32 and advice  to move to an arrangement 
where he could draw  tax-free cash were linked.
The adjudicator said that potentially Mr B could have insisted on the transfer being  carried out even if 
he was given  advice against  transferring.  In such a situation he said he would have expected  HWP 
to have made Mr B aware of the possible disadvantages of the transfer, including:
Ref: DRN172134010Losing the guaranteed pension  the section  32 would  provide at age 65 and the value  of those  
benefits and the high risk that by transferring the value of the benefits  would  be significantly lower 
than the section  32.
The adjudicator agreed with HWP that the documents he was given should  have made  him aware of 
the guaranteed benefits the section 32 could provide.  But said he was unable to conclude that the 
risk he was taking, in terms of the overall  value of his retirement  benefits, by transferring  was clearly 
explained.
He referred to the section 32 illustration showing that based on returns  of 5% and 7% the policy  
would only have been able to provide the GMP at age 65. And to get an idea of what  rate of return 
may have been seen  to be reasonable at that time he looked at the discount rates used to calculate 
loss on pension transfer cases. Taking account of when the advice was given and the period until his 
55th birthday, the discount  rate was 6.2%. So, on the assumption that he left his section  32 plan in 
force until age 65 and then drew the GMP, he was likely to be financially  better  off by not 
transferring, in terms of a comparison of the capital value of benefits.
However in order to benefit  from the guarantees  of the section 32 in retirement the adjudicator said 
he would have had to retain the plan until age 65. And when he reached this age it was likely  he 
wouldn't have  been able to take any tax free cash from his plan.
If he did retain his section  32 it was also probable he wouldn't have been able to take any benefits  
from the section 32 until age 65 as the fund would potentially have been insufficient to cover the cost 
of providing the GMP.
The adjudicator said in deciding whether  or not Mr B's complaint should  be upheld he needed to 
decide if, had Mr B been given  a full explanation  of the disadvantages of transferring, he would  have 
made a different decision.
He concluded that on balance he wouldn't have  made a different decision.  In coming to this 
conclusion he took account  of the following  points:
The documentation showed it was Mr B's aim to retire early. For example in the SIPP 
recommendation letter  and in 2012 when the adviser  referred  to his "lifelong  plan not to work to 
normal retirement age."
Whether or not HWP made Mr B sufficiently aware of the downside of transferring  he didn't believe it 
recommended the transfer. He agreed the transfer wasn't processed on an execution  only basis.  But 
the declaration  Mr B signed should have made it clear to him that HWP  wasn't recommending he 
transfer. HWP  provided a copy of what it says was Mr B's own calculations. This does suggest it was 
his idea to look to access the tax-free cash  from his plan to repay  debt.
In 2012 at age 55 he decided to buy an annuity and it appears he subsequently did downsize  his 
home as the recommendation letter  suggested he intended to do.
At the time of the initial advice  Mr B was aged 50. The adjudicator said that in terms of the overall 
value of his retirement benefits it is likely he would have been best advised  to retain  his section 32 
plan until age 65. As the representative  put it "stick to your mundane drudgery for the next 15 years".
But in light of his clear  aim to retire  early the adjudicator thought  that on balance he wouldn't have 
wanted to wait 15 years  before taking benefits on his plan. Particularly  if it had been explained  that by 
keeping his section 32 it was quite possible  he may not have been able to access any benefits until 
age 65. And it was likely that if he waited to take benefits at 65 he wouldn't have been  able to take a 
lump sum from his plan.
So while he considered HWP was remiss  in not clearly  documenting the risks of transferring  he didn't 
feel a loss has been  suffered as he felt Mr B would still have wanted to go ahead with the transfer.
Ref: DRN172134011Mr B's representative didn't agree. The adjudicator responded noting that the representative had 
pointed to several issues that weren't  covered  in his view.  These included  HWP acting outside  its 
permitted activities in giving this advice  and the fact that it received  commission and failed in their 
duty of care to Mr B.
The adjudicator said he had make it clear that he didn't consider the way the transaction was handled 
was in compliance with the regulations at the time. But it was his view that even had the advice been 
compliant Mr B wouldn't have made a different decision. And it was for that reason that he didn't  
uphold the complaint.
The representative confirmed that he wanted the case to be referred  to an ombudsman.  He said the 
core test came down to whether  the firm was negligent, which clearly it had been.
He went on to say that "to establish a claim  in negligence a claimant needs to establish that a duty of 
care existed and, that the said duty has been breached, and that the defendant's breach has caused  
damage to the claimant."
He said that he couldn't see how any objective test of established  legal precedent,  or case law, would  
lead to any other conclusion than that HWP was negligent in arranging  for Mr B's "gold-plated benefits 
to be trashed in the way that they were".  Or "that 'guessing' at what  he would  have done, from what  
we know was a negligently established position,  represents the balance of probabilities in this case."
my provisional  findings
Mr B's representative has raised  a number of issues. I trust though that all parties will understand why 
I have not addressed some  of these. Rather, I have focussed  on the empirical  evidence from all 
parties to this complaint  and the balance  of probability,  in reaching my provisional decision.
It follows that I do not intend  addressing every issue raised. My intention  is to only address those  
issues I consider  central to my decision. In other words, although I have considered  all the issues,  I 
have provisionally concluded that within  these, there are limited but overriding reasons for me to 
demur from the conclusions reached  by our adjudicator.
Having said that, my provisional conclusions  are finely balanced.
On the one hand, HWP say that it was not responsible for advising Mr B to transfer away from his 
section 32 plan.  It says that the disclaimer signed by Mr B is definitive  evidence  it did not advise  Mr B 
to do this. It says Mr B was an insistent client. So the responsibility to transfer was his alone.
On the other hand, it is clear the potential value of the GMP guarantee on the section 32 that Mr B 
was foregoing  by transferring was not explained to him.
He wanted to access his benefits early and realise a relatively modest (in relation  to the benefits 
foregone) tax fee cash  sum to pay down  debt. This was eventually realised  through  the SIPP.  On 
opening the SIPP, which was advised by HWP, it said in its suitability letter that Mr B transferred from 
his section 32 plan "against its advice".
So having said that it did not advise Mr B to transfer, HWP only four months later,  said that it did 
advise Mr B, albeit not to effect the transfer.  But there is no documented record of such  advice not to 
proceed with the transfer.
I have also noted that in its final response to Mr B, HWP said "you would  have to sign a disclaimer 
confirming you were  acting against our advice." But as HWP later acknowledge, the disclaimer  did not 
say this. It only said that HWP had not provided  any advice. It does not specifically say that HWP had 
advised against the transfer.
Ref: DRN172134012I agree with the adjudicator that both transactions were linked. Mr B wanted  to access his tax free 
cash and that was the reason for the transfer.  The SIPP  was then the vehicle to achieve  this. There is 
no evidence to show Mr B wanted to transfer from his section 32 plan for other reasons.  HWP was 
aware of Mr B's intentions when it asked Mr B to sign the disclaimer. But the disclaimer  only refers to 
the transfer; it does not reference the SIPP.
I agree with Mr B's representative that it is unlikely,  given Mr B's background  and investment 
experience, that he would have been the instigator  of such a scheme involving two transactions to 
release tax free cash.
Given the above,  my provisional conclusions  are as follows.
First, HWP, whether it gave advice or not, should have disclosed to Mr B if it was not authorised to 
offer advice on the transfer. It should have documented such disclosure, possibly  by incorporating it 
into the disclaimer Mr B signed. If it was not authorised to conduct this business it should not have  
been processing the transfer.  It should have referred Mr B to an IFA.
And if it was authorised, it was obliged to document the suitability of the advice  it was giving  Mr B. In 
the event, it did neither.
Secondly, HWP was aware of Mr B's intention  to access his tax free cash. In its final response letter  it 
acknowledged that in his discussions with HWP  before he transferred, Mr B told it that he had plans 
for early retirement. It then acknowledges that the calculations Mr B showed it before signing the 
disclaimer specifically referred to Mr B's intention to pay down debt with the tax free cash. It later 
advised Mr B to open a SIPP in order to do this.
So even though the transfer preceded the SIPP opening, the transactions  in my view were clearly 
linked. HWP then had a duty of care to Mr B to explain  the consequences of the transfer. Explaining  is 
a different matter to giving advice; in my view, HWP should have put Mr B in a fully informed position 
before he decided to transfer. The evidence  does  not support HWP's  implicit  contention that the 
transactions should be viewed  separately and that its duty of care only extended to the SIPP  opening 
on which it did give Mr B advice.
It could have  put Mr B in an informed  position in two ways; either by setting out in documented form 
the financial benefits Mr B would be giving  up on transferring or, alternatively, by documenting  that it 
had advised him as a matter  of importance,  to take independent financial advice (which it could not 
give) before Mr B proceeded to transfer.
I am not persuaded HWP met its even limited obligations  to Mr B by only getting  him to sign a 
disclaimer in respect of the transfer. Nor am I persuaded  that by signing the disclaimer, 
Mr B became  an insistent  client.  If, as HWP contend, it gave no advice to Mr B then it cannot follow  
that he insisted on going against its advice. In other words, to be an insistent client requires a client  to 
insist on a course of action  contrary  to that advised.
But on the other  hand,  if it did give advice (as it also says it did) then HWP  should  have documented 
that advice,  set out the value of the GMP Mr B was foregoing and then documented that Mr B was an 
insistent client having received advice  not to proceed  with the transfer. And, of course, it follows that 
the transaction was not concluded on an 'execution  only' basis as HWP  assert.
Either way, I am not persuaded  at present that HWP properly dealt with Mr B.
The adjudicator, whilst acknowledging that HWP had not acted in compliance  with its regulatory  
obligations concluded that notwithstanding this, Mr B, had HWP met its obligations, would anyway 
have proceeded to transfer his section 32 plan. Accordingly, he did not uphold  Mr B's complaint.
I understand why he reached  this conclusion. There is persuasive evidence that
Mr B wanted  to retire  early  to access his tax free cash which he could only do by transferring. He 
subsequently did retire  early  and draw  benefits.
Ref: DRN172134013But my concern is that had Mr B been  made aware  of the scale of benefits  he was giving up on 
transferring, that is the GMP at age 65, it is likely  he would have made a different decision in relation 
to his then need to raise cash. There is such a disparity  between  the benefit  foregone and the tax free 
cash raised that I cannot safely conclude  that had Mr B been fully informed of the consequences  of 
his actions that he would certainly have  continued  with the transfer.
He may have chosen to raise the cash elsewhere; he may have decided to do nothing; or he may 
have decided  to proceed anyway. I cannot know for sure. But as he was clearly not fully informed  at 
the time he transferred,  I cannot safely agree that he would have proceeded to transfer regardless. In 
my view, more  weight is being placed on the evidence  for this than it can reasonably bear.
On balance, I think  it more likely he would  not have transferred  and retained the benefit of the GMP 
and then reconsidered his options if he chose at a later date to retire early.
It follows that my provisional  decision is that this complaint should  be upheld.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome would  
be for Hartley  Wadsworth & Partners Ltd to put Mr B, as far as possible,  into the position he would 
now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
The business  must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension  review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October  2017.
The calculation should  be carried  out as at the date of my final decision,  and using  the most recent 
financial assumptions  published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken  by an appropriately qualified firm that can carry  out the 
calculation promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
The business  may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS or S2P).
These details  should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take 
into account  the impact  of transferring his benefits out of the section 32 plan on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P  
entitlement.
If the redress calculation shows there is a loss, compensation should if possible be paid into a 
pension plan held by Mr G. The payment should allow for the effect  of charges  and any available tax 
relief. The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If it isnt possible to pay the redress  sum due into a pension plan then it should be paid directly to Mr 
B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for the income  tax that would  otherwise 
have been paid.
Had Mr B retained his section 32 the whole  fund would have been  used to provide a taxable income.  
So any compensation  paid can be adjusted to allow for Mr Bs likely  income  tax position at age 65. On 
the assumption that he will be a basic rate tax payer, a deduction  of
20% can be made. If either party believes  this assumption to be incorrect they should  provide 
evidence to demonstrate why.
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid to Mr B within 90 
days of the date the business receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision.  Further  
interest must  be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of 
my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes the business 
to pay Mr B this compensation.
Ref: DRN172134014Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken  to settle 
goes beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where the 
only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP  may be added  to the 90 
day period  in which interest wont apply.
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1721340