K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that a transfer he made to his account with Revolut  Ltd was rejected. He 
says that Revolut should have told him that would happen; had it done so, he would have 
made different arrangements,  saving himself  time and fees and avoiding  an exchange rate 
loss.  
background
Mr W has an account with Revolut, as well as bank accounts in the UK and abroad. In 
December 2018  he wanted to transfer US$20,000 from an account in Cambodia to his 
Revolut account.  Hed made similar  transfers in the past, but nevertheless discussed the 
transfer beforehand, using Revoluts in-app chat facility. He was told he might have to 
provide proof of the source  of funds, but there  was no mention of any other possible 
problems. 
Mr W tried to transfer the money on 17 December 2018. The transfer was, however, 
rejected. Revolut explained that this was because it had changed  its banking  partner; I take 
this to mean that its new bankers werent  willing to process payments from Cambodia, 
whereas its previous bankers had been.  
Mr W arranged  to transfer the money instead  to a UK bank. That transfer was completed 
eleven days later, on 28 December.  He complained  to Revolut. It said that it was within its 
rights to change its banking partner and that it wasnt  obliged to tell Mr W that it had done so, 
or what the consequences might be. It accepted though that it ought to have alerted Mr W to 
the possible difficulties  with this transfer and offered to refund  the fees for the transfer 
(US$47.32) and to pay Mr W £100  in recognition of the inconvenience to which hed been 
put.     
Mr W didnt think  that went far enough. He said that in the time between his attempt  to make 
the transfer on 17 December 2018  and the date when he could  make  it  28 December 2018 
 exchange rates had moved  against  him. He thought Revolut should cover his exchange  
rate loss as well. He referred the case to this service.
One of our investigators  considered what had happened. She broadly agreed with what  Mr 
W had said, and in particular the principle that Revolut should  meet  Mr Ws exchange rate 
loss, as well as refunding  the transfer  fees and paying him something  to recognise the 
inconvenience to which hed been  put. The investigator wasnt able however to resolve  the 
matter entirely, and so Ive reviewed the case.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W doesnt fully accept  Revoluts argument that it wasnt obliged  to tell him about changes 
to its policies and processes.  However, I dont believe I need to comment on that. Thats 
because Revolut does  accept  and I agree  that it ought to have alerted him to the 
potential problem in this case. It had the opportunity to do so and should have taken that 
opportunity, whatever its terms  and conditions said. 
Had Revolut done  that, I think it likely that Mr W would have made different arrangements  to 
transfer the money, as in the event he did. So, he incurred  fees unnecessarily and lost out 
Ref: DRN19777322because, by the time he could transfer his money, US$20,000 was worth  less in sterling  than 
had been the case eleven days earlier. 
Mr W says that Revolut  hasnt refunded his fees of US$47.32; I agree that it should, if it 
hasnt already done so. I also agree with the investigator that a payment of £100 is 
appropriate compensation for the inconvenience to which Mr W has been put. 
The only issue remaining  is, therefore, the exchange  rate loss. Mr W says that hes lost £159 
as a result  of the delay. To reach  that figure,  hes taken a published rate for 17 December 
2018 and compared it to the amount he actually received on 28 December. I should say that 
I think this gives a figure which is a little generous  to Mr W; its unlikely that he would have 
received the published  rate on 17 December 2018.  Comparing  published rates on each date 
from the same source gives,  in my view, a more accurate picture  of currency movements. 
Be that as it may, I dont  believe  Mr Ws calculation of his loss as £159 is unreasonable;  its 
not possible to work  out exactly what his loss is, but Mr Ws figure is a fair estimate.        
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Ws complaint,  Revolut Ltd should:
refund its fees of US$47.32,or  the sterling equivalent at the date of payment, if it hasnt 
already done so; 
pay Mr W £159 to reflect his exchange  rate losses;  and 
pay Mr W £100 to reflect the inconvenience  to which hes been put. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1977732