K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  (trading as Very) has unfairly 
declined to refund a purchase made through her online credit account.  
background
Miss M first opened  an account with Shop Direct on 2 October 2017. On 8 January 2019,  
Miss M placed two separate  orders for Apple Air Pods costing £159 each. One was ordered  
in her name to be sent to her work  address, and the other was ordered in her mothers  name 
to be sent to her mothers work address.
Miss Ms mother  also had an account  with Shop  Direct which  had closed in 2015, although 
she was still able to view her account to view any historic transactions.
Miss Ms mother  contacted Shop Direct on 11 January 2019. She confirmed receipt of the 
goods that were  sent to her work address but says she wasnt  expecting  anything,  and that 
her understanding was that the account was closed.  Shop Direct subsequently  made  
attempts to contact  Miss Ms mother and also requested she contact it to discuss her 
concerns, but she declined  to call it or discuss the matter any further.   
Miss M spoke with Shop Direct on 14 January  2019.  She said shed placed an order and had 
received texts from Royal Mail to say the goods  had been delivered, but that she hadnt 
actually received them. Shop Direct  confirmed  the address the goods  were sent to and 
Miss M confirmed it as her work  address  although  the actual address was her mothers 
work address. Whilst it carried out an investigation, Shop Direct applied  a temporary credit 
for the amount of the goods  to her catalogue account. 
Following its investigation,  however, Shop  Direct subsequently re-debited  the amount from 
Miss Ms account. She called on the same day as shed tried to make another purchase  but 
it was declined. Shop Direct explained her account  was temporarily on hold as it had 
received information  suggesting the goods had been  successfully delivered and received at 
the intended destination by the intended recipient.
Miss M spoke with Shop Direct again  on 3 March  2019. In the call, it confirmed that the 
goods were signed for using her mothers surname  and that they had been received at the 
intended address.
Miss M later wrote to Shop  Direct  and confirmed  having received the goods that were sent to 
her work address, but disputed receiving the goods  that were  supposed  to have been 
delivered to her mothers work address.
Miss M and her mother later wrote a joint letter to Shop Direct on 29 April 2019.  In the letter  
her mother  explained  that shed  received the goods  at her work address in her name but that 
she was concerned the item had been  ordered fraudulently  as shed not placed  any orders.  
She then requested a pre-paid label so she could return the item as Miss M no longer 
wanted it. She explains that she only established  later on that the goods were sent out in the 
wrong name  as they had been  ordered by Miss M.
As Miss M was unable to resolve  her complaint, she referred  it to our Service.
Ref: DRN18009822Our investigator looked into Miss Ms complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
he was satisfied that she had ordered the goods and that they had been  successfully 
delivered to the intended  individuals and locations  as requested. He said he didnt think 
Shop Direct had done anything wrong  as it wouldve been for Miss M to have told her mother  
to expect a delivery.  He also said, having listened  to the calls made  by Miss M, that she had 
confirmed how the order was originally placed, which supported  his findings that the goods  
were successfully sent to her mothers work  address in her mothers name  as intended.
Miss Ms mother  (acting  on Miss Ms behalf) disagreed with our investigator. She said the 
reason the 28 day return policy was missed  was because her daughter  didnt know  the order  
had been received and also because the order was sent in the wrong  name. And after the 
amount was re-debited,  she said that Shop Directs errors didnt come to light until the 28 
days had passed.  As no agreement  could  be met, the matter has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators view and I will not be upholding  this complaint. 
Miss M placed two separate  orders for Apple Air Pods, one to be delivered in her name to 
her place of work, and the second  to be delivered in her mothers name to her mothers  
place of work. Shop Direct has provided  evidence of this so Im satisfied thats  what  Miss M 
instructed it to do.
When Miss M spoke to Shop Direct on 14 January  2019, she confirms having received a text 
message on the day to say the goods  were being sent by Royal Mail and had later been 
signed for. Im satisfied  the goods were received by Miss Ms mother as she contacted 
Shop Direct on the same day to confirm this  albeit  she said she wasnt expecting a parcel.  
But Miss M called on 14 January 2019  to say she hadnt received the goods. Shop Direct 
said on the phone that they had been received at the intended destination, her mothers  
work address, however  Miss M confirmed this as her own work  address to the agent she 
was speaking to on the phone.
Ive listened to the two phone calls Miss M had with Shop Direct on 14 January and 
27 February 2019. Shop Direct asks Miss M in both calls if she recognised  the surname of 
the intended recipient, (which was her mothers surname) but on both occasions she said 
she didnt recognise  the name. And when  Shop Direct probed on this further in the February 
call and asked who she lived with, and to confirm her mothers surname, Miss M appears to 
have terminated  the call. It isnt clear why the call was terminated, or why Miss M didnt 
recognise the surname  of the person who had signed for the goods given that it was the 
same as her mothers. But its clear  that Shop Direct had received conflicting (or at the very 
least, confusing) information. 
In the call Miss M had with Shop Direct  on 3 March  2019, she says that she ordered the 
goods to her mothers address but they were never received. But its clear that her mother 
had received the goods as she had already  confirmed this to Shop  Direct on 11 January 
2019. I accept  its possible that both parties  may not have directly  discussed the matter with 
each other  during this time. But what I have  to consider here is whether Shop Direct  has 
made an error in these  circumstances.  
Miss Ms mother  said that the order sent to her work  address was delivered in her name  and 
thats what caused the confusion. But as Ive explained, Ive seen evidence  from Shop Direct 
Ref: DRN18009823that Miss M intended  for this to be sent in her mothers name,  so I cant see it did anything  
wrong here as it has delivered the goods  to the intended recipient  as requested.  It has also 
provided evidence  to show that Miss M has ordered  goods to be delivered to her mothers 
work address in her name several  times before, so it doesnt appear to have been an 
unusual occurrence  or any error made  on the part of Shop  Direct. 
But as the investigator has already explained  in his findings, it wouldve been  for Miss M to 
have told her mother to expect a delivery  if she had made her the recipient. I appreciate  she 
may have  forgotten to do this, but I cant fairly hold Shop Direct responsible for the resulting 
issues this has caused, and of which Miss M has subsequently complained.  
Shop Direct have  also explained that they were unable to tell Miss Ms mother  who had 
ordered the goods when  she first questioned receiving  them.  This was because it had been 
ordered from a separate  account,  which they were unable to discuss  without breaching their 
data protection  obligations. I accept they couldnt discuss the particular details of the order  
as a result, and I can also see that they later attempted to discuss  this in further  detail with 
Miss Ms mother  by asking her to call their fraud  department (which she did not want to do). 
So in the circumstances, I dont think Shop Direct acted unreasonably here.
Miss Ms mother  said that she requested Shop Direct to send her a pre-paid label so she 
could send the goods back. I have seen the notes provided by Shop  Direct and I can see 
she did make this request. But as outlined above,  I can also see Shop Direct wanted to 
speak to her on the phone to try and resolve the issue and discuss the matter  further,  but 
she refused. So, given there was no follow up afterwards,  and taking into account the 
puzzling circumstances surrounding the receipt of the goods,  I dont  think  theyve acted 
unreasonably by not sending a pre-paid returns label. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Shop Direct followed Miss Ms instructions to send 
the goods to her mothers address and in her mothers  name. So I cant  agree Shop Direct 
acted against  her wishes or made  any mistake  in this regard.
Following on from the above,  in Shop  Directs terms and conditions, it explains:
4. Delivery
4.5 Please note that if you wish to return goods under our Approval guarantee, you 
have 28 days from receipt  of the goods to return them  to us. For further information 
on returns and exceptions  to our home approval guarantee please see the Returns 
section.
Miss M didnt request to return the goods  until 29 April 2019 by letter, at which point the 28 
day return period had passed.  So I accept  shes out of time to return the goods and therefore 
isnt entitled to a refund  on her credit  account. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October  2019.
Ref: DRN18009824Jack Ferris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1800982