K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about a recurring issue with a car she has been  financing though an 
agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited (BMWFS). Shed like to be 
compensated for her frequent visits to the dealership to get the problem resolved.
background
Mrs H took receipt of a new car in October  2015. She financed the deal through  a four year 
hire purchase agreement.  
She says that after six weeks she noticed  the tyre pressure warning light had illuminated and 
that despite thirty two trips to the dealership they didnt accept there was a fault until October  
2018. She says their attempt to resolve  the issue has failed. She says shes  been made to 
feel stupid; been  continuously lied to and has been treated in a disparaging manner and 
shed therefore  like BMWFS to compensate her.
BMWFS noted  that the dealership had replaced the tyre pressure control unit and provided a 
spare tyre and they offered Mrs H an extended  warranty to resolve the issue.  But whilst 
Mrs H accepted the extended warranty, the problem continued. So she referred  her 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator noted that the dealership only had a record  of Mrs H visiting the dealership  
nine times.  So she spoke to them and they explained that some visits may not have been 
recorded and that Mrs H had attended hundreds of times. She understood this wasnt a 
definitive number  but she was persuaded that Mrs Hs account of how many  visits shed  had 
to make was likely to be true. She didnt  think  it reasonable that a brand new car should 
experience such  significant  issues over such  a time period  and she thought  BMWFS should 
therefore compensate  Mrs H for the trouble and upset that shed been caused. In the 
circumstances she thought they should refund 10% of all finance  instalments shed paid 
towards her finance agreement from the second  month of the agreement  until the day of 
settlement; as the problems persisted and Mrs H was still being affected  by them.
BMWFS didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion.  They thought the compensation was 
excessive and they suggested  Mrs H had already accepted an extended warranty  in 
resolution of her case. They  said shed not reported  the issue for three years and they 
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint BMWFS so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN13464912board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs H acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs H. This was a 
brand new car so I wouldnt expect anything to be wrong with it.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask BMWFS to put this right.  
Im persuaded that its most likely  this problem was reported within  the first couple of months 
as Ive found Mrs Hs testimony  to be reliable and I think  the actions of the dealership have 
been consistent with that testimony.  And, as the problem was highlighted so early, I think  its 
reasonable to suggest it was there, or developing, from the beginning and therefore 
BMWFSs responsibility.
Im persuaded that Mrs Hs account  of her frequent visits to the dealership  to have  this 
problem resolved is accurate and that shes visited the dealership more times  than have  
been recorded. I say that because:
Ive seen an email trail with the dealership in which they were trying to provide a like 
for like replacement and I dont think that would be necessary if there hadnt been 
significant problems  with the car
the dealership  have  explained that Mrs H visited them  hundreds  of times and whilst 
I understand this may have been  a turn of phrase, I think  it supports  Mrs Hs 
suggestion she visited on many occasions
I dont think an extended  warranty would have been offered if there werent 
significant problems
Ive reviewed the communication with the dealership and with BMWFS and whilst I can see 
Mrs H did accept an extended  warranty I think its fair to say this was on the basis that she 
thought the issue had been resolved when a new tyre pressure control unit; sensors and a 
new tyre were fitted. But it clearly  hasnt been and I think its reasonable to compensate  
Mrs H further  for the trouble and upset shes experienced.
Shes explained that shes been concerned about driving a car with a warning light on and I 
can understand that would be the case; especially when there was no explanation about why 
the light had illuminated. Shes also clearly had to visit the dealership on many occasions  
and her visits have proved fruitless. BMWFSs  attempts to repair  the problem have been 
unsuccessful and Ive therefore considered whether Mrs H should  be allowed to reject  the 
Ref: DRN13464913vehicle. But as the car has been  driveable and I can see Mrs H has been able to complete a 
reasonable mileage  in the car I dont think that would be the appropriate resolution here. 
I do however, think Mrs H should be compensated for the time shes  wasted and the loss of 
enjoyment shes experienced  with what should have been trouble free driving  in a brand new 
car. I dont agree  with BMWFS that the adjudicators suggested resolution is excessive given 
the particular circumstances  in this case and I think they should therefore refund  10% of all 
instalments Mrs H has paid towards her finance  agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to refund  10% of all finance  instalments paid by Mrs H from the second monthly 
instalment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1346491