K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a two mortgage  payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken 
out in 1999 and 2001. Mr K says Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policies werent  mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Mr K initially  took out PPI with a mortgage in 1999 and then took a further  PPI policy  with a 
further advance  on the mortgage  in 2001.
Lloyds has sent us copies of the application  forms for Mr Ks mortgage  and further advance. 
These included  a section on PPI, with yes and no boxes to be ticked  if Mr K wanted to 
take it out. And the yes boxes have  been ticked.
Lloyds has also sent us copies of separate  application  forms and direct  debit mandates  for 
the policies, signed by Mr K.
Based on this, I think Lloyds made it clear to Mr K that he had a choice about the PPI. And 
that Mr K chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr K, so it had to check  that it was right for him. And, 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Ks circumstances at the time, I think that it was.
Mr K has said he was self-employed and so the policies werent right for him. Lloyds hasnt 
been able to send us a copy  of the terms and conditions for the policy  sold in 1999.  But Ive 
seen a copy of the terms and conditions for the policy sold in 2001  and a copy of terms and 
conditions for policies sold shortly after the sale in 1999, which  I think  are likely to be similar 
to the terms for the policy sold in 1999.  These  terms shows  that self-employed people were  
covered by the policies and that the requirements  for self-employed people  to claim for 
unemployment werent significantly more difficult than for employed  people. And Mr K 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover. So I think the policies  were right for him.
Mr K also says he had savings and income  from a number of different clients,  so he wouldnt 
have needed the PPI. But peoples  financial  circumstances can change, so the income Mr K 
was getting from his clients couldve changed.  The policies couldve covered Mr K if he was 
off work as a result of accident or sickness, as well as unemployment. And the policies 
couldve paid out for longer than Mr K wouldve been able to cover  the mortgage  repayments 
from the savings  hes told us he had. So I still think the policies were right for him.
As well as checking they were right for him, Lloyds had to give Mr K clear  information about 
the PPI policies. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But a mortgage is a serious  financial commitment, and Mr Ks property  couldve been  at risk 
if hed failed to make his repayments. So I think he could  have  found  the protection  the 
Ref: DRN19813202policies offered appealing.  And, for the same reasons I think  they were  right for him, it seems  
like the policies would have been useful for Mr K if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
they were affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put Mr K 
off taking it out.
Mr K has mentioned that other PPI complaints  hes made have been upheld.  But the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  looks at all complaints individually on their specific 
circumstances. And, based on the evidence I have and as Ive explained above, I dont think 
these PPI policies  were mis-sold.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr K, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr K.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1981320