K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about Link Financial Outsourcing Limiteds actions in seeking repayment  
from him when he believes he is eligible to defer  his student loan payments.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2020 
In summary,  Mr W had student loans taken  out before 1999 which  he had been able to defer 
each year as his income had been below  the threshold. In 2018,  Mr Ws application for 
deferment was unsuccessful and his accounts  were recorded as being in arrears.  Link had 
relied on the Student Loan  Company  (SLC) to make  the decision on whether the deferral 
should be allowed, because under  the terms of the student loan debt sale by the 
government, applications for deferment were  to be decided by the SLC.
The reason  for refusing the deferment was that SLC thought Mr Ws salary  was above the 
deferment threshold. Mr W had participated in his employers car lease scheme and he said 
that the payment for the car was made by way of a salary  sacrifice and shown as a monthly 
deduction in his payslip. Mr Ws employers said that Mr W didnt receive an allowance for the 
car, but the payment he made every month was a deduction from his salary, and then 
recorded on his payslip as a benefit in kind so that his employers could pay the appropriate 
rate of tax on his behalf.
Because SLC refused  the deferment application,  and Link sought repayment  of the loan 
under the terms  of Mr Ws loan agreement, the matter came to me for decision.
Id also looked  at the HMRC website for some guidance in my provisional  decision but Link 
didnt think Id applied  this correctly to Mr Ws situation and Ive taken their view into account 
in reaching my final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I had said I was going  to ask Link to pay Mr W compensation in 
the sum of £350, cease collection of payments from him, and remove any adverse entries 
made on Mr Ws credit file relating  to non-payment.
Link thought my provisional decision  was unfair.  They disagreed  with me where, I had said 
that . Link had chosen to rely on what would  seem to be unsupported calculations  by 
SLC.  They said that under the terms of the sale of the loan debt by the government, 
they cant disregard the information  from SLC.
After my provisional decision was issued,  Link and SLC exchanged  emails between 
themselves, and Ive been provided with copies. It was concluded that as a result of further 
investigation by SLC, Mr Ws application for deferment has been accepted. SLC said they 
had to make  further  enquiries of Mr Ws employer before concluding that Mr W was in fact 
below the threshold  and Link reiterated  to us, that it was Mr Ws responsibility to provide the 
required information.
Link concluded that they were required to abide by the decision made by SLC and as SLC 
make decisions  using  their own guidelines and procedures, Link had no influence  or 
involvement with these and would like me to take this into account when writing, my final 
decision.
Ref: DRN13775942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  and, having done so, Im not persuaded 
to depart from what Ive said in my provisional  decision  and Ill explain why. Ive read Links  
reasons for not agreeing with my decision, but I must think  about  the impact  on all parties in 
this matter and come  to a fair and reasonable conclusion. 
Why compensation needs to be paid to Mr W 
Mr W came  to this service  because his application for deferment  failed. He tried to explain to 
SLC that he was entitled to a deferment but despite providing letters from his employers 
confirming his annual  salary and payslips, his application was refused.
If Mr W had accepted SLCs decision to reject his application, he would have been  pursued 
for money  that he didnt have to pay at that time. Following my provisional decision, Ive 
seen that SLC made further enquiries  of Mr Ws employer and HMRC and told Link that they 
misinterpreted the information on Mr Ws payslips. Theyve apologised for the error  and said 
theyll update  their staff on salary  sacrifice schemes  and how employers may display this 
information.
Mr W suffered  distress  and inconvenience because the enquiries that should have been 
made when  he submitted  his application  werent made. He had to spend  time chasing 
information, making additional calls and bringing his complaint to this service.  I know  Link 
are saying that it is Mr Ws responsibility  to provide additional information, but from the 
evidence Ive seen  its only after my provisional decision was issued that SLC obtained clarity 
on the position from Mr Ws employer.  Im suggesting that this could have been done  much 
sooner, and if it had been, or if Mr W had known what was required from him or his 
employer, this matter  would never have reached  the stage that it has. So I think  its only fair 
that Mr W receives compensation  of £350.  
Why Im requiring  Link to pay the compensation
Link dont think its fair that Im telling them to pay £350 to Mr W. Ive made clear in my 
provisional decision why I consider this to be Links responsibility. In a telephone  
conversation with our investigator, Link confirmed  that any redress payable to Mr W would 
be their responsibility, and therefore Ive asked that Link pay Mr W the sum of £350.
I appreciate that Link has said its relationship with SLC means it needs to abide  by SLCs 
deferral decisions.  That arrangement might  place Link in an unfortunate position, but its not 
a reason for me to find that Link has treated Mr W fairly.
Ive also considered Links views on the HMRC treatment of the loan, and the information 
provided on the website appears  to have supported my view.  But even if I do accept  what  
Link are saying about the guidance having no bearing on Mr Ws loan, SLC have  admitted 
that they didnt  assess  the information correctly. 
My view is that this matter should  never  have reached this stage. Mr W and his employers 
had provided as much information as they could and the enquiries with Mr Ws employers  
should have been made at a much  earlier stage.
So, Im upholding  this complaint.
Ref: DRN13775943my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle it, Link Financial Outsourcing  Ltd 
should now:
pay Mr W compensation  of £350;
if they havent done so already, immediately cease  collection of payments for the 
deferment year ending 2018,  and
if they have made any adverse entries  on Mr Ws credit  file relating to non-payment  
of his student loans in the deferral period, these should be removed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Sejal Karia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1377594