K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold a travel  money card by Sainsburys Bank  Plc.
background
On 28 June 2018 Mr A loaded $3,000  US dollars (USD) onto a multi-currency  cash passport 
card he obtained  from Sainsburys. He now feels this was mis-sold to him. He was told by a 
Sainsburys advisor that he could use it to withdraw  money abroad without incurring a fee  
but charges were displayed on all of the ATMs  at his destination. He also found he wasnt 
able to use the card in many places, including on transport. So when he returned to the UK 
he still had a lot of unused foreign currency on the card.
Mr A wasnt  told when  he loaded his funds onto the card that any unspent money  would be 
paid back in pound sterling (GBP). He wants to obtain his unused funds in USD,  the same  
currency he loaded onto the card. He said he stands to lose around 20% of the value of the 
funds on the card if he cashes out the balance the way Sainsburys say he has to.
Sainsburys said that they dont charge customers for using ATMs,  so they suggested Mr A 
should contact  the third party card scheme (MasterCard) to find out why and how these  
charges applied. And they explained  that they couldnt cash out the balance  on Mr As card 
in any currency other  than GBP, and that this would  be brought  back by the bureau at the 
buy-back exchange  rate of the day. 
Mr A wasnt  happy with this response, so he brought his complaint  to our service.  Our 
adjudicator felt that his complaint should  be upheld in part. They didnt think  Sainsburys 
were responsible for the ATM charges. But they also didnt  think Mr A would have read the 
terms and conditions for the card which explain that unspent  funds will be paid in GBP. So 
they felt Sainsburys  should allow him to cash out the remaining  balance on his card in the 
foreign currency. 
Sainsburys disagree. They feel that the terms and conditions are clear,  and said theyd 
expect Mr A to have read these and checked  the product  met his needs. So the case  has 
been passed to me to review.
my provisional decision
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 21 June 2019. A summary of my findings  is 
as follows;
-I said that Sainsburys had shown us that Mr A had signed a registration form saying 
that he agreed to the terms and conditions of the card when he first purchased it on 
30 May 2018. And that I felt hed have had time to familiarise  himself  with the 
registration leaflet  and terms and conditions of the card prior to making this 
transaction the following  month.
-I said Mr A had been told by Sainsburys  that hed be able to use the card 
commission free abroad. And noted  that if hed been  made aware by Sainsburys 
advisors that his card wouldnt be accepted  everywhere  he wanted to use it, and hed 
be charged for making cash withdrawals, he would  have chosen  to take all of his 
foreign currency in cash instead.
Ref: DRN12502102-But I said that I thought the cash withdrawal charges hed seen were  likely fees 
applied by the ATM operators, and I didnt think this was the same  as being charged  
for using the card itself. Or that it was within Sainsburys control. I also said I didnt 
think I could fairly  hold Sainsburys responsible for the fact the card wasnt accepted 
everywhere Mr A had tried to use it, and noted that the registration leaflet did say that 
the card wasnt suitable for everything, including as a deposit for hotels or hire cars.
-And I said that whilst  I could understand why it was frustrating for Mr A that he could 
only redeem the unspent funds  on his card in GBP I was satisfied that Sainsburys 
were acting  in line with the terms and conditions of the card here. Although  I 
appreciated its staff might  not have drawn his term to his attention when he 
purchased his currency I thought it was reasonable that Sainsburys expected 
customers to read the terms  and conditions before  using the card.    
responses to my provisional  decision
Sainsburys responded to say that they agreed  with my provisional decision and had no 
further comments or information  to add.
Mr A responded to say that he wasnt  happy  with my provisional decision and didnt think  Id 
commented sufficiently  on the oral advice he was given by Sainsburys. He made a number 
of further submissions, both via telephone conversations with members of this service, and 
by email. 
In summary  Mr A has told us he was initially going  to put $1,000  on the travel  money  card 
and keep $3,000 in cash, but the Sainsburys advisor told him to do this the other way 
around. He says he asked how it would work if the card wasnt  accepted  anywhere,  and was 
assured that hed be able to get cash for free from ATMs and over the counter. So he went 
ahead and put $3,000  on the card. But when he got to the U.S he found that the ATM  
machines did charge.  And at the bank counter he was told that whilst it wouldnt charge him 
for withdrawing cash, Sainsburys would.
As a result he returned to the UK with $1,500 on his card,  and was surprised he could only 
withdraw it in sterling, meaning it would be subject to an exchange rate. Our investigator had 
suggested Sainsburys should  let him withdraw  it in dollars. But Mr A has explained  hed still 
have to pay an exchange rate to convert  it back.
Hes also explained that whilst I said in my provisional decision that I thought it was 
reasonable for Sainsburys to expect  him to read the terms and conditions of the card, these  
were actually conveyed  to him verbally in branch by a manager. So he didnt feel he needed 
to read them  in detail before he travelled the next day. And he thinks there should be an 
expectation that Sainsburys staff will provide  correct  advice about the card. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN12502103Im sorry  Mr A felt Id overlooked the main points of this complaint in my provisional findings, 
and not fully considered the verbal advice he was given by Sainsburys. To clarify, the 
purpose of my provisional decision was to let the parties know what my initial view of this 
complaint was based on the information  and evidence  Id been provided up until that point. 
And to give them the opportunity to respond with any additional information or comments  
they wished to make before I reached  my final decision.
Mr A has provided some  detailed  comments in response to my provisional decision. Id like 
to thank him for this and assure him I have taken everything hes told us into account when 
reaching my decision here.
In light of what he said I asked our investigator to make some more  enquiries with 
Sainsburys and establish whether it had any further  records of the conversations  its advisors 
had with Mr A. Sainsburys told us that its CCTV isnt of sufficient quality  to pick up 
conversations in branch. And that they had asked the members of staff concerned  for their 
recollections of the conversations they had with Mr A when he first raised this complaint, but 
they werent able to recall much about  their interactions with him. I appreciate  Sainsburys 
advisors will speak to a lot of customers on a daily basis, so I dont think  this is unusual.  
Unfortunately, with complaints like this about verbal  exchanges its very difficult  for me to be 
sure exactly  what  was discussed. Thats not to say that I doubt Mr As recollection of events. 
But I do appreciate  that misunderstandings or assumptions can arise from conversations  
which arent necessarily the fault of either  party. 
In situations like this where evidence is incomplete  or not available,  Im required to make my 
decision on balance i.e. what I think most likely happened given whats  been  said and 
provided in the circumstances of the complaint. I know Mr A will be very disappointed,  but I 
still dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I understand Mr A acted  specifically on the advice  he received from Sainsburys staff here.  
And that he feels the advice he was given was incorrect. Primarily because he was told that 
he would  be able to withdraw cash free of charge if he encountered problems with retailers  
or merchants not accepting the travel money card as a method of payment.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  the terms of the card do say that its free to use to 
make ATM withdrawals or payments  to merchants. So Im still not persuaded that the advice 
he says he was given  by Sainsburys  was technically incorrect.  As I said, I think its likely  that 
the charges he saw on the ATMs he tried to use were imposed by the ATM operators 
themselves, not by Sainsburys or MasterCard.  And I think its unlikely  a Sainsburys advisor 
would have made guarantees about  any fees or charges imposed by third parties. 
Mr A says he also tried to withdraw  money  at a bank counter in the U.S. And that he was 
told at the bank counter that whilst the third party bank wouldnt impose charges if he 
withdrew money in this way hed be charged by Sainsburys for making the transaction. But 
as far as I can see this wouldnt  have  in fact been the case. I dont think any charges would 
have been imposed by Sainsburys or MasterCard here.  So whilst I understand why Mr A 
chose not to go ahead and withdraw  his money  over the counter, I dont think it would be fair 
for me to hold Sainsburys  responsible for incorrect information he was given by a third party. 
Ref: DRN12502104Mr A says that when  he purchased the card a Sainsburys  manager  conveyed the terms and 
conditions to him verbally and he accepted them  on the day, so there  was no need for him to 
read them and the accompanying booklet before he travelled. Ive already explained why I 
dont think the advice above  was incorrect or conflicted with the terms and conditions of the 
card. So Mr A hasnt  said anything that persuades me Sainsburys  gave  him incorrect 
information about the terms  and conditions of the card. 
He has suggested  he wasnt  necessarily made  aware of all of the terms and conditions,  and 
accompanying information.  But I can see that the terms  and conditions  are quite detailed. So 
Im doubtful that Sainsburys advisor would have  been able to cover  them  in depth  in a 
conversation in branch. And if they did, I think its quite possible Mr A wouldnt have recalled 
every point that was made.
I understand Mr A is disappointed that any withdrawal from the card has to be made  in GBP. 
But hes also told us that even if Sainsburys  were  to let him have  the money in dollars hed 
need to convert  it into GBP anyway and it would be subject to an exchange rate then. So the 
only way I can see that this situation  could  have been avoided  was if Mr A had spent the 
dollars on the card in the U.S.  
As Ive said,  I understand why he didnt do this. I also fully understand his frustration about 
any transaction he now makes in the UK being subject to second exchange rate given hed 
already paid to purchase the dollars in the first place. But Ive explained why I dont think I 
can fairly say Sainsburys are strictly responsible for the fact he returned with unspent  funds. 
So whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr A again,  I dont think it would be fair for me to ask them  
to compensate him for this.
Mr A has also commented on the fact that Sainsburys didnt tell him that if there was an 
issue he might need  to speak to MasterCard. To be clear, I can only comment  specifically on 
this complaint here. I can see that Mr A was directed to speak  to MasterCard  if he was 
concerned about  cash  withdrawal charges  in a letter he was sent in relation to this 
complaint. I dont think it was unreasonable that this was suggested. And I think it would be 
hard for Sainsburys  to foresee all of the possible issues  Mr A might  encounter  and forewarn 
him if he might need to speak to a third party about  them.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  by 27 October 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1250210