K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC refused their claim under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act, 1974.  They want a full refund of the money theyve lost.
background
Mr and Mrs P tell us that between 2002  and 2008  they paid for two memberships of a 
holiday club run by a company  Ill call C. They say they paid a deposit  of £300 by Tesco  
credit card in 2002 and the balance of over £5,000 by bank transfer. Later,  between  2004 
and 2008 they advise  they made a second payment - this time £500  by Tesco  credit  card 
with over £9,000  paid by bank transfer.
Mr and Mrs P say the promises they were made about the services, including a cash  back 
certificate, never materialized and despite  many efforts  they were  unable to obtain  their 
money back. So they complained to Tesco  who refused to process their claim.
Tesco told us the claim under  section 75 was statute barred as it was made more  than six 
years after the date on which the causes  of action accrued  - between  2002 and 2008. It also 
said it had no record of the payment being made from a Tesco  credit  card.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  In a very detailed 
explanation she set out the relevant legislation. Apart from section 75 she considered  the 
Limitation Act 1980. She found the time limit a claim had to be brought within  was six years 
in both instances. She said shed seen evidence that Mr P had only opened his credit card 
account with Tesco in 2011. So it could not have been his card that was used for the 
payments. Mrs P had opened her credit  card account with Tesco in 1998.
But whilst she could see some payments had been made from Mrs Ps account for various 
holiday club products - she couldnt say these were made to C for the memberships which  
the complaint  was about. And the first payment  was said to be made  in 2002 - so that was 
more than six years from when the complaint  was brought to Tesco - in November 2016. 
The same applied to the later payment  which was said to be made around 2008 or 2009.  
Mr and Mrs P did not agree and said they felt they were entitled to their money back under 
the present circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the complaint relates to two separate transactions its convenient to deal with both 
at once as the issues  which arise  are essentially the same.
Normally I cant  look at matters which arose more than six years  before a complaint was 
brought. Here  the complaint Mr and Mrs P brought is about  Tescos decision on their 
complaint, and not the claim itself. And as this effectively arose on 5 January 2017 when 
Tesco responded to their complaint - its well within our time limits.
Ref: DRN17722152Im sorry  to see Mr and Mrs P have been caused  so much upset - as well as financial loss - 
by whats happened. It leaves a sour taste  to discover that one has paid for something and it 
turns out to be far less attractive than expected. And perhaps more so when  this relates to 
goods and services which are themselves supposed to provide enjoyment.
But whilst Ive every  sympathy with the situation  in which  Mr and Mrs P find themselves I 
regret Im not going to be able to help in the way in which they would wish.  Ill explain why.
Dealing very briefly with the complaint  as it relates to Mr Ps account. As far as I can see he 
only opened a credit card account with Tesco in 2011. So the payments  could  not have been 
made from this account. I accept that the transactions which are complained of took place 
many years ago and its easy to understand that total recollection of detail is not always 
possible. So Ill assume for the purposes  of the complaint that it refers to Mrs Ps account.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account in reaching a decision.  And Ive 
referred to the relevant legislation earlier. Its not for me to decide  if section  75 applies or if 
the time limits set out in the Limitation Act, 1980  have been  exceeded.  Its also necessary to 
emphasise Im deciding if Tesco has treated Mr and Mrs P fairly in dealing  with their 
complaint. Im not making a decision  on the merits of the underlying facts which led to the 
complaint.
In summary,  section 75 potentially gives a consumer additional protection if there is a 
misrepresentation and/or breach of contract by the supplier of goods and/or services. A like 
claim can be brought against  the provider of credit as could be brought  against  the supplier 
of the goods and/or services. But only the use of certain types of credit  - including a credit  
card - is covered. Whilst its not necessary for a consumer to prove the whole of any 
payment has been made by credit card - it is necessary  to show  that at least  part of the 
payment was made using this method. Unfortunately, theres insufficient evidence to show 
that any of the payments were made  from Mrs Ps Tesco credit card account.
That would normally be enough  of itself to resolve the complaint, but out of courtesy  to Mr 
and Mrs P - and for completeness - Ill deal with the various other  aspects of their claim.
Im treating  Mr and Mrs Ps claim as if they were  alleging both misrepresentation and breach 
of contract. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which causes a consumer to act 
upon it. So any misrepresentation  as to the nature of the services to be provided under the 
agreement must occur  at or before the time the agreement  is started. Whereas  a breach of 
contract can occur at any time whilst a contract is in force.
Ill not repeat  the detailed analysis of the law which the investigator  set out in her view,  as Mr 
and Mrs P have already  seen that. But, in brief, this explained that any claim for breach of 
contract and/or misrepresentation must  be made within six years of the date when the cause  
of action arose. So that would have been  - in relation to any misrepresentation - about 2008  
for the first payment,  and not later than 2015 for the second. Tesco received this complaint 
on 28 November 2016, which  is outside those dates.
Ref: DRN17722153Any breach  of contract which  occurred in the six years  immediately  prior to the complaint 
date might be covered.  But its known  that C went into liquidation in October 2012. As Ive 
not seen details of either  contract, Im not able to say precisely  what services were  offered. 
Typically a holiday club agreement would make offers  of specific dates and/or properties  
subject to availability.  So difficulties  in booking a preferred option would not of itself be likely 
to amount to a breach  of contract. I also dont know if Mr and Mrs P were required to make  
additional payments to keep the contract  live - and if so, whether they did.
In summary,  theres insufficient evidence to show the relevant payments were made using a 
Tesco credit  card, which is essential for a section  75 claim, and so it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable for me to ask Tesco to refund any loss Mr and Mrs P suffered. 
And its also my view that Tesco was correct  to take into account the time limits for claims to 
be brought, and to consider these  had expired.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1772215