K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained about the charges  incurred  on a current  account held with 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS). He believes that by adding charges while he was 
experiencing financial difficulty, RBS hasnt treated him fairly.
background
In early 2019 Mr J complained that RBS hadnt  treated him fairly in relation to his overdraft. 
Mr J said his only income was benefits,  and he was struggling to pay for basic necessities. 
He said the charges and interest  on his current account had left him in financial hardship, 
and had worsened his health  condition. 
To put things right Mr J requested RBS refund  all of the charges applied  to the account in 
the past six years. 
RBS responded  to say it was sorry to hear about Mr Js situation,  and suggested  he spoke to 
its financial difficulties team to see what support options were  available. RBS said it was 
satisfied that the charges had been  applied correctly  but as a gesture of goodwill the bank 
refunded the ones  incurred since January 2017.
Mr J didnt think the refund offered by RBS was enough, and so referred his complaint to our 
service for review.   
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He couldnt see that Mr J had 
let RBS know about his circumstances prior to raising the complaint this year, and so it 
hadnt had the opportunity to help.  He also didnt think RBS ought  to have been on notice 
that Mr J was in financial  difficulty, based on how hed maintained his accounts since 2013. 
Mr J didnt agree. In summary he said:
The bank  had considerably worsened his financial  situation, and continues to charge 
him more than £30 a month in interest  and fees, when his sole income is benefits. 
He made  RBS aware of his situation several times, and it ought to have  recorded  his 
contact with them.
Even after our services involvement in the complaint,  RBS hasnt offered any 
support regarding his financial difficulty.
His accounts werent well maintained,  as suggested by our investigator, given that 
hed permanently been in his overdraft  since it was approved.
By charging interest  and fees the bank has profited from his vulnerability.  
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mr J has faced over the last few years,  in terms of both 
his health and finances. Although Mr J is and has been in financial difficulty it doesnt mean 
RBS is required to refund all interest  and charges on the account. Instead the overarching  
requirement is for it to treat Mr J fairly. So Ive considered whether RBS has acted  fairly  in 
Ref: DRN11852262response to his situation. I know this will come  as a disappointment to Mr J, but I think it has 
 and Ill explain why.
Mr J has made reference to Section 9 of the Lending Code and parts  of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  (FCA) Banking  Conduct of Business  Sourcebook. In addition  to these, 
Ive also considered the rules and guidance  in relation to financial difficulty  set out in the 
FCAs Consumer Credit  Sourcebook. All of which broadly set out that firms ought to act fairly 
towards customers they have reason to believe are in financial difficulty. 
Mr J says he told RBS about  his situation  many  times, and it said it couldnt help. In any 
event, Mr J feels the bank  ought to have been  able to see he was in financial difficulty  from 
the way his accounts were managed. RBS says it didnt know he was struggling until it 
received his letter earlier this year. So Ive had to decide what I think  likely happened, and 
ought to have happened. 
Mr J doesnt mention contacting the bank  previously for support in his initial letter  of 
complaint to RBS in early 2019. He also didnt raise this as an issue  when the complaint was 
referred to our service.  Our investigator asked Mr J if hed let RBS know about his 
circumstances, and at that point he said he had on numerous occasions  with the first time 
being over the phone in 2013.  In later correspondence Mr J told us hed initially alerted RBS 
that he was struggling  financially during a call in 2014.
RBS says its searched its systems and cant find evidence of any phone  calls where Mr J 
said he was in financial difficulty. Ive looked through the banks contact records  and they 
suggest only one call was received  from Mr J regarding his accounts. In 2015  Mr J called to 
complain that RBS had removed  an overdraft  facility on a different account  to the one this 
complaint concerns. RBS upheld the complaint,  some interest and charges were refunded, 
and the overdraft facility was reinstated.  The notes dont suggest there was any mention of 
financial difficulty.  
Mr J doesnt remember the number that he wouldve called from, to enable RBS to run a 
more refined search of its systems. Mr J did give us the number for RBS he wouldve called, 
which he says he found online. But that number is for RBSs bereavement helpline   who 
have said theyd have  transferred Mr J through to the financial difficulties team if his call 
didnt relate  to bereavement.  So on balance,  Im not persuaded Mr J did contact RBS prior to 
2019 about his financial difficulties. 
I can see that Mr J has been regularly in his arranged overdraft since the facility  was 
approved. But he was also relatively  regularly  in a credit balance  too. On the whole Mr Js 
accounts have  mostly  been maintained within their agreed limits during the last six years. He 
also held two other accounts  with RBS at the same time, another current account and a 
savings account.  And for the most part, both of these  other  accounts  held credit  balances 
which collectively were  larger than any overdraft borrowing on his main current  account.  So 
looking at the wider financial picture, it would be unreasonable for me to say RBS ought to 
have realised he was in financial difficulty. 
It appears that from January 2016  Mr Js only income came from benefits  and it seems 
between late 2015 and early 2016  his situation  was at its worst. I think  at this time RBS 
ought to have taken some proactive  action.  I can see that it did write out to Mr J asking him 
to get in contact  if he was struggling financially. But I dont think  RBS needed to do any more 
at that particular time. 
Ref: DRN11852263I say this because  although there were times where both current accounts were  overdrawn, 
one of the accounts did go back into credit  regularly, and by more than £1,000 on more  than 
one occasion.  And Mr J was broadly maintaining the accounts  within  any pre-agreed  
overdraft limit. So although Mr Js situation was worse than it had been  before, I dont think it 
would have been clear to RBS he was in financial difficulty. Since late 2016,  Mr Js overall 
financial situation appears to have improved  when considering just the account  activity 
across his three accounts with RBS. So I dont think theres been any cause since then for 
RBS to proactively  do anything to assist Mr J. 
I dont doubt that Mr J has struggled with his finances during this period, and I take on-board  
what hes said about not opening  letters when struggling with his mental  health.  But, in the 
absence of enough evidence to suggest  he likely  told RBS about his circumstances prior to 
this year,  I dont think the bank has treated him unfairly. I also dont think  RBS ought to have 
been on notice  it needed to do anything  in addition to the letters  it sent. This is because it 
didnt hear back from Mr J regarding the additional  support it offered, his overdraft facility 
continued to be maintained within its agreed limits and he continued to have (for the most 
part) enough money  in his other  two accounts to repay his entire overdraft borrowing.  
 
Once RBS was made aware that Mr J was in financial difficulty  it did react fairly  by 
refunding all the charges incurred in the last two years in order to help him manage his cash 
flow better  and to help him come  out of his overdraft sooner. It also asked him to get in 
contact to discuss the other support  options  available which  might  include arranging suitable  
repayment plans  to repay the overdraft borrowing on terms Mr J can afford.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1185226