K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc charged  him an unfair rate of interest  on his 
mortgage by keeping him on the standard variable rate (SVR) for over ten years.
background
In 2006, Mr G borrowed over £1.7million from BoS on interest only terms. He took an initial  
fixed interest rate which expired in 2008. From that point on, the mortgage was charged at 
BoSs SVR. The fixed rate was 4.25%; by 2008,  the SVR was 7.35%, though it fell to 4.85%  
by January 2009. But this meant  that Mr Gs payments increased once his rate expired. 
Also in 2008, Mr G began to fall into arrears. Hes self-employed, and says his business was 
affected by the financial  crisis,  which caused a drop in his income.
By May 2010, the arrears  had reached £40,000.  BoS agreed  to capitalise and for a year or 
so Mr G made overpayments. But from February  2012 he wasnt able to make payments,  
and from April the overpayments had been  used  up and the mortgage  was back  in arrears. 
BoS agreed a further capitalisation in October 2013. Mr G stayed up to date with the 
mortgage until May 2015, but then fell back into arrears.  By the time he complained to us the 
arrears had reached over £400,000 and only two payments  neither for the full monthly  
amount  had been made since 2015.
BoS recognised  it had wrongly auto-capitalised the arrears, and reduced the arrears by 
£65,000 in 2018 in line with the regulators instructions  but even with this the arrears were  
still over £400,000 by late 2019.
Mr G had had the property on the market  since 2014, and in around 2016 a court  had 
ordered it be sold as soon as possible as part of his divorce settlement.
But Mr G hadnt been able to find a buyer. Properties in that price bracket sell more slowly 
anyway, and Mr Gs property was affected by the HS2 railway  line. He applied to HS2 under 
the need  to sell scheme.  His application  was accepted, and HS2 bought the property in late 
2019. This repaid the mortgage in full, but Mr G wasnt left with much equity.
Mr G complained. He said he had been charged an unfair level of interest  almost  5% - 
since 2009. This was out of line with Bank of England base rate, and with what other lenders 
were charging. He said that if the rate was lower  hed have been able to afford the mortgage 
and would have  been left with enough  equity to buy somewhere else once the property was 
sold. He wanted  the additional  interest  refunded to him. And he said BoS shouldnt have 
taken repossession proceedings when it knew he had an outstanding application with HS2  
knowing that would mean HS2 wouldnt  buy the property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr G has had significant financial difficulty for many  years.  Hes had three phases 
of substantial arrears. BoS has capitalised the arrears twice. But from 2015 onwards Mr G 
Ref: DRN13456142wasnt able to make any payments at all to his mortgage and the arrears built up to over 
£400,000.
I dont agree that the arrears are because BoS didnt offer Mr G a new product. For example, 
he was clear of arrears following the 2013 capitalisation, until 2015.  He then missed one 
payment in April 2015 and another  in August 2015, but paid the other monthly payments 
due. Then  from October 2015 onwards Mr G stopped making mortgage payments with the 
exception of one payment  in July 2018.
A new interest rate would  have reduced Mr Gs monthly payment. If there was evidence  he 
could afford  to pay something , albeit less than the interest on the SVR, that might show that 
he could afford a lower  interest rate. But given Mr G made no payments at all, a lower  
interest rate wouldnt have made  the mortgage affordable.  He would still have paid nothing.  
A new interest rate would  not have been  enough  by itself to get the mortgage back on track.
Mr G asked for new rates in 2008,  2009,  2010, and 2017. On each occasion  he was refused.  
In 2008 that was because  the application  was premature  the old rate hadnt  finished. By 
the time the rate was coming  to an end, Mr G was in arrears.
The same was true of each of the other  times he applied  in 2009, 2010 and 2017. On each 
occasion, he was in arrears, and so BoS refused a new rate.
I dont think thats  unreasonable. While  a new interest rate would reduce the monthly  
payments, it comes with an application fee and an early  repayment charge (ERC). If Mr G 
was in arrears, its likely he wouldnt have  been able to afford the application  fee up front so 
the balance would have increased. And a borrower in arrears  is more likely to bring  the 
mortgage to an end  either through sale or repossession   which would add an ERC to the 
balance too. A new rate might  be appropriate if it makes the mortgage affordable. But if it 
doesnt, it wouldnt solve the underlying problem  and might  make it worse if the property 
has to be sold. 
In this case, the payment  history shows that when he was in arrears Mr G generally paid 
nothing at all (sometimes  paying much less than the monthly payment).  A reduced interest 
rate wouldnt  therefore have  made  the difference between him keeping  up with the mortgage  
and not doing so  and carries the risk of increasing the balance Ive set out.
This was particularly true in the most  recent and most serious period of arrears,  from 2015 
onwards, when Mr G was actively trying to sell the property. It couldnt have been known at 
the time that he would  fail to do so, and it wasnt unfair for BoS to take the view that an ERC 
would be likely if the property was sold and so a rate wasnt in his best interests. A sale 
could have happened at any time; its only with hindsight that we know it didnt.
There were occasions  when Mr G did qualify for a new rate, in 2010 and again in 2013/14 
following the capitalisations. But theres no evidence he applied  for one at that time, and at 
that time there was no regulatory obligation  for a lender to invite  an application.  
I dont therefore  think that it was unfair  for BoS to charge the SVR from 2008 onwards. When  
Mr G asked for a rate he didnt qualify for one, and when he qualified  he didnt ask. 
And I dont  think the SVR was of itself an unfair rate. It was higher than Bank of England 
base rate  but the two werent linked, and there  was no suggestion they were.  It was higher 
Ref: DRN13456143than BoSs fixed rates, and the fixed rates offered by other  lenders  but it was comparable 
with the SVRs charged by other  lenders.
Mr G also complains that BoS took possession proceedings,  jeopardising  his sale to HS2.  I 
dont think hes right about that. The governments  own website for the scheme  makes  clear 
that lenders in possession can also apply to the scheme1. By this time the mortgage was 
over £300,000 in arrears  and no payment had been made for several  years. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for BoS to apply for repossession   and I dont think doing  so would have 
ruled out the sale to HS2.
I do understand Mr Gs strong  feelings about  his situation. And its clear hes had significant  
financial difficulties for many years. But I dont think, having looked  at all the evidence, that I 
can fairly uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
1 See https://www.gov.uk/claim-compensation-if-affected-by-hs2/need-to-sell-scheme  and also see 
para 4.1.7  of 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/91
7407/WEB_CS_NEEDTOSELL_GuidanceApForm.pdf
Ref: DRN1345614