K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about the pension  and investment advice he received from Best 
Practice IFA Group  Limited in 2017. He says the investments recommended  performed 
poorly and impacted on his intention to retire  by May 2019.  
background
Mr W met with an adviser in October  2016 to discuss  his and his wifes financial 
circumstances and objectives.  The details of the meeting were  recorded in a fact find from 
March 2017.
It was noted that Mr W was 72 years old and intended to probably retire at 75. It was 
acknowledged he was aiming to retire in May 2019, in line with his 75th birthday. Mr W 
lacked experience when  it came  to making investment decisions but recognised the 
importance of getting things right as he approached retirement. He was in poor health and 
would likely qualify  for enhanced annuities. He sought to only leave his property to his 
daughters following his death.  He had a retirement  income target of around  £40,000.
Mr Ws attitude  to risk was assessed at 4 out of 10, or Low Medium.  He had sought  advice 
on how to best use his existing  pensions and savings to provide a retirement  income of 
around £40,000 per year whilst also seeking  to spend £100,000 over 10 years on holidays 
and luxury.
A suitability  report was prepared which recommended  that Mr W transfer two pensions he 
held along with the joint savings he held with his wife. Mr W then transferred over £240,000 
into the Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) recommended.
A further  £70,000  would be invested into a joint General Investment  Account (GIA) across 
May and June 2017. 
All funds were invested into the Dimensional Multi Option: Global Perspective (Dimensional)  
fund. Over the course of the following year the value  of the pension  and investments fell and 
this understandably  caused Mr W concern. 
Mr W decided to engage a new adviser in August 2018 and transferred his pension  and 
investment portfolio away from the SIPP and GIA. He purchased  an enhanced annuity, after 
taking his tax free cash, which would commence  in September 2018. 
Mr W complained to Best Practice and the complaint was referred to this service.  The first 
adjudicator to consider  the complaint decided that it shouldnt  be upheld. The complaint  was 
then reviewed by a second  adjudicator  who reached  a different view.  He said the advice was 
unsuitable as the recommended pension had an investment  horizon of 5-10 years  whereas  
Mr W had an investment horizon of around  two years given his preference  to retire  at age 
75. The adjudicator also found  that the overall costs  for the new recommended plan which 
related to both Mr Ws pensions and non-pension investments were  more expensive  by 
around 0.42% per year.
Best Practice didnt  agree.  It said that Mr W wasnt certain about when he would retire. So 
its not right to say the investment horizon was only two years.  The fact-find  said that the 
pension was being arranged to accommodate drawdown over the next five years as needed. 
Mr W had been made aware  of investment  risk and said that his capacity for loss was up to 
Ref: DRN1185718215 per cent. Annuities  were considered, it recommended that Mr W take the annuity from the 
section 32 buy-out  plan he held. Mr and Mrs W had a substantial income at the time. They  
were both in work. Mr W had income  from an employers  pension and Mrs W was about  to 
receive her state pension. There was no need  for additional income at the time and the 
recommended course provided future flexibility.
As no agreement had been  reached  the case was referred to me for a decision.
I considered the evidence and decided to make a provisional decision as I didnt think the 
compliant should  be upheld.  I made the following  provisional findings:
Mr Ws original  complaint was that the charges made were disproportionate given the 
poor investment  performance. This service doesnt generally consider complaints 
about poor investment performance. Best Practice recommended  investments and 
Im not satisfied that the investments themselves were inherently  unsuitable  or posed 
too high a degree of risk. Mr W did suffer losses, but that is the nature of investment 
and Im satisfied that the risks were  explained to him.
Mr W wasnt in need of income  at the time of the advice. He was in work, had 
another pension  and was also in receipt  of dividend  income from his business. Mrs W 
was about to receive her state pension.  Mr W may have intended to retire at 75, but I 
dont think that was certain. But in any event, the advice provided for the option  of 
flexible drawdown  which would  have meant that funds would remain invested. So I 
dont think the investment  horizon  should  only be considered  as two years. The two 
pensions that were transferred didnt allow for drawdown and were  transferred into 
an arrangement with greater flexibility.
The SIPP arrangement would not have  prevented Mr W taking an annuity  at 75 or at 
some other point, either with some or all of the funds.  I dont  think  there was an 
inadequate consideration of annuity options at the time of the advice.  Best Practice 
recommended an annuity  from the section 32 buy-out plan even though no income  
was required.  That policy had guaranteed annuity rates that couldnt  have been 
matched on the open market.
Overall, Im not satisfied  that the retirement investment strategy recommended by 
Best Practice was unsuitable for Mr W. I appreciate that he opted  to take an annuity  
after he took advice  elsewhere. This provided  certainty but it was a decision he took 
only after he had suffered losses with the investments Best Practice  recommended.
The recommended  strategy provided for flexibility allowing Mr W the option of flexible 
drawdown as he approached 75. It didnt close off the option  of an annuity at 75. 
There appears to have been  no need for income at the time. It was not certain that 
Mr W would  retire at 75 and it seems  that he has continued to work.  If Mr W had 
elected to access  his pension benefits by way of flexible drawdown, then some  or all 
of the funds would have remained invested and so an investment horizon of up to ten 
years wouldnt  be unreasonable in my view.
Best Practice agreed the provisional  decision but Mr W didnt, he said, in summary:
He wanted  a safe and dependable  income for himself  and his wife.
He did intend  to retire at 75. Im wrong  to suggest otherwise.
There was inadequate consideration of the option for annuities.
Ref: DRN11857183He disagrees with the suggestion that he wasnt  in need of income at the time of the 
advice.
He has suffered a total loss of all income.
The fees of £9,000  were unreasonable and my decision doesnt address this.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Ws concerns  that my decision  is different to that of the latest adjudication. My role 
is to undertake an independent assessment of evidence and make my own decision on the 
complaint. Im not bound to follow the view of the adjudicator or to merely rubber stamp a 
decision that has already been  made.
I appreciate that Mr W wanted to achieve  a safe income in retirement.  But Im satisfied on 
the evidence that he was, or ought to have been,  aware that the recommendation made 
came with some degree of risk. His attitude  to risk was assessed  as was his capacity for 
loss. Best Practice didnt  give any guarantee on the future investment performance.
With regard to the retirement  age, I accepted that Mr W may have intended to retire  at 75, 
but I said that I didnt  think that was certain. Thats because Mr Ws own words in his 
instruction to Best Practice were that he would probably retire  at 75. He had his own 
business and was self-employed and so there  must have been some  fluidity over his 
proposed retirement.  My understanding is that he didnt retire at 75, but in any event, as I 
said, the advice  provided for the option  of flexible drawdown which would  have meant that 
funds would remain invested even at retirement.  So, I dont think  the investment horizon 
should only have  been considered as two years, or age 75. 
Im satisfied that annuity options were considered. This is evidenced by the fact that an 
annuity was recommended  and taken for part of Mr Ws pension  holdings.
Mr W disputes that he wasnt  in need of income at the time of the advice. The 
contemporaneous evidence doesnt  support that. There  are at least two references  to Mr W 
not needing income at the time recorded in the suitability report. Im satisfied that the 
contemporaneous documented  evidence from the time of the advice should be relied  upon  in 
preference to Mr Ws current recollection on this point.
I do understand that Mr W did suffer losses and I dont take this lightly,  but he didnt suffer  a 
total loss in my view.  The funds that were  available to him to purchase the annuity  when he 
did so were diminished, but not totally lost.
I have addressed the issue  of fees in my provisional  decision. Mr W says the fees didnt 
represent value  given the investment losses. I explained that this service  didnt  consider  
complaints about  poor investment performance. Also, the fees Mr W was charged reflected  
the fees that had been agreed with Best Practice at the outset. In general,  its not my role or 
the role of this service  to decide the level of fees that a business  may charge. And even if it 
was, I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable  to apply hindsight  and decide whether 
the cost of the advice he was given represented  good value when assessed by reference  to 
the investment  performance.  The fees werent  contingent on future  investment performance. 
Ref: DRN11857184Im sorry  that Mr and Mrs W lost out on their investments but Im not satisfied  that this 
complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 June  2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN1185718