K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Mobile  Limited  is holding him liable for a loan taken out in his 
name without his knowledge or consent.  
background
In February 2018  a contract was taken  out in a Tesco Mobile  store for the purchase of a 
mobile phone and airtime. The phone was funded  by a loan repayable over 30 months. 
Mr A says he knew nothing about the loan or the other elements of the contract. He was 
abroad at the time and only found out about it when he received a welcome letter  from 
Tesco Mobile. He reported the matter to Tesco Mobile shortly afterwards  just under two 
weeks after the contract was taken out.
Tesco didnt  accept  that there  was any fraud  involved. It said that this was a civil matter 
and refused to cancel  the loan. In May 2018  Mr A cancelled the direct debit that had been  
set up to pay the loan instalments. Tesco Mobile  then passed the loan account  to a third 
party for collection, and Mr A contacted  Tesco Mobile again to complain about its actions. 
Tesco Mobile reiterated that it would  not treat the matter  as fraud and would not cancel the 
loan. 
Tesco Mobile pointed  out that the mobile  phone had been used in the area where Mr A lives 
and that the password on the account was linked  to Mr As sons name. Mr A said that a 
number of other accounts were set up in his name  and around the same time, including 
store and other mobile  phone  accounts;  all the other providers acknowledged that the 
accounts had been opened fraudulently.  
Mr A referred his complaint to this service, and one of our investigators  considered  it. She 
issued a preliminary assessment indicating that she thought Tesco Mobile should close Mr 
As account (having taken it back from the third party) and remove  any record  of it from Mr 
As credit file. Mr A accepted the investigators  assessment,  but Tesco Mobile  didnt and 
asked that an ombudsman review the matter.         
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to broadly the 
same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
Ill deal first of all with Tesco Mobiles assertion that this is a civil matter and not therefore a 
case of fraud. What it seems  to be saying here is that, even if Mr A didnt apply for the loan 
himself, somebody known to him did and that this is therefore a matter for him to sort out 
with the person who made the application. Ill consider later whether I think someone known 
to Mr A was responsible  for the loan application; but, even if they were, it doesnt  follow  that 
he wasnt the victim of fraud, or that that is an adequate answer to Mr As complaint. At best, 
it would  simply  mean that I would  need  to consider, for example, whether Mr A in some  way 
ratified those actions; has an alternative  means  of redress;  or has benefited from the loan. 
But my starting point here is that a lender  such as Tesco Mobile shouldnt generally  seek  
payment of a loan from someone who didnt agree to it. So, Ill consider that and then 
consider whether there  are any factors  (such as those Ive indicated) which might lead me to 
a different outcome.        
Ref: DRN16228192Tesco Mobile appears to accept that Mr A didnt  take out the loan himself.  But, for the 
avoidance of doubt, I dont believe he did. The mobile phone contract was taken out in a 
store (rather  than, for example, online) when Mr A was out of the country.  The information 
needed to do so was quite limited  and, perhaps  more importantly, relatively easy for a 
fraudster to access. It wasnt necessary to provide, for example, formal  identification  
documents. It would  not have been difficult for a fraudster to impersonate Mr A. 
I must therefore consider whether  even though he didnt take out the contract, Mr A should 
be liable  for it. 
I cant rule out the possibility that whoever took out the contract did so with Mr As 
knowledge and consent  in other  words,  he colluded  in it. Tesco Mobile  has acknowledged 
that its not possible to know  for certain  whether he did, and I agree. But Mr A has been 
consistent in his account of events, and Im not persuaded that theres  sufficient (or indeed  
any) persuasive evidence on which I could fairly reach such  a conclusion. 
Tesco Mobile says that the contract must have been taken out by someone known to Mr A  
in effect, a friend or family member. In addition to the information required to obtain  the loan, 
it relies on the fact that the password linked to the account appears to be connected with a 
family member, and that the phone was used in the same location as Mr As home. The 
investigator said that it was possible that whoever took out the loan obtained information 
about Mr A, including family members names.  I agree thats possible, and its clear that they 
had some basic information about  Mr A. But I dont believe  I can safely make a finding  that 
the person who took out the loan was linked  to Mr A, still less that he either benefited from it 
or would be in a position to identify that person. 
As to the use of the phone in Mr As locality, I dont believe that necessarily links him to the 
loan either.  Its quite possible that whoever  obtained the personal information used to open 
the account with Tesco  Mobile  did so locally. It would follow  that the phone is likely  to have 
been used relatively near to Mr As home,  but I dont believe thats enough for me to 
conclude he was involved. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigators  overall conclusions  and her 
recommendations about how Mr As complaint should be resolved.  As Ive indicated, Mr A 
has already accepted those recommendations. 
Ref: DRN16228193my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr As complaint, Tesco Mobile  Limited should:
buy back the debt from its current owner; 
close Mr As loan account and refund any payments  made to it, together with interest at 
8% a year simple from the date of payment to the date of any refund; and 
arrange for the removal of any record of the loan from Mr As credit  files.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1622819