K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about Lloyds Bank  PLCs  poor service when he tried to make a payment 
when abroad.  Mr C also complains about  Lloyds increased overdraft charges. 
background
Mr C went abroad  to buy a car, but Lloyds blocked  his payment and suspended his bank  
account as hed not provided sufficient security  information. He said he was unwilling to say 
what the payment  was for as it was a private  matter, but hed called Lloyds  about  it before to 
avoid problems and was told there  was no need  as its security systems are so good. 
Mr C said he was told to go into a branch and the suspension was then lifted. Mr C 
complained to Lloyds,  but found the calls and delays frustrating.  Mr C said he was 
completely dissatisfied  with the way his complaint  was handled  and the £150 compensation 
offered by Lloyds. He said the delay had cost him £500 and he wanted a written apology.
Lloyds said it had no record  of Mr Cs pre-transaction call. It said its fraud  systems  may block 
a payment until it can be confirmed as genuine and it followed the correct security process 
as Mr C had been  reluctant  to provide personal information. Lloyds said there  was a gap of 
62 minutes between  Mr Cs first attempt to make  the transaction  and its completion. Lloyds 
apologised for its poor customer  service  in dealing with Mr Cs complaint.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld,  saying  Lloyds lifted  the 
suspension on Mr Cs account after an hour and the transaction completed. She said Lloyds 
has no record of Mr Cs pre-transaction call and can block transactions they suspect of 
involving fraudulent  or illegal activity. She said Lloyds acted fairly to protect Mr Cs account. 
The investigator said Lloyds had apologised for its poor customer service  in dealing  with Mr 
Cs concerns and she thought the £150 compensation it had offered was fair.
Mr C disagreed with the investigator and requested that his complaint be considered  by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr Cs complaint  about the overdraft  
charges, introduced by Lloyds in 2017,  will be considered  separately  by our service.
Mr C said he was treated with a lack of care and consideration by Lloyds staff in dealing 
with his transaction and subsequent complaint.  I have looked closely at Lloyds decisions 
and handling  of Mr Cs payment abroad and his complaint about  this, to see if Lloyds has 
acted within  the terms of the account,  and to see if it has treated him fairly.
From the record of the communications  between Mr C and Lloyds  I havent  found that Mr C 
was spoken to with a lack of care and consideration, though  I can see how frustrated he 
became.
Its worth  bearing in mind  that under the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account, Lloyds can 
refuse to authorise any transaction when it reasonably suspects, 'unauthorised, fraudulent or 
illegal use of your card'. Lloyds said it has no record of Mr Cs pre-transaction call and 
thought his account could  be at risk when  the transaction was first attempted.  I think  it was 
Ref: DRN14303032fair and reasonable for Lloyds to take steps to protect Mr Cs account from potential fraud in 
the way that it did.
This was an important payment for Mr C, and problems  are harder to overcome when the 
transaction is carried out abroad, such as visiting a bank branch. So I can well understand 
Mr Cs frustration when a transaction he thought  hed taken steps to alert Lloyds  to, was 
blocked. However, I have  noted that the transaction was held up for 62 minutes and then 
went through. 
The suspension of Mr Cs account caused him difficulties and he found  it difficult to get this 
back on track and get his complaint considered by Lloyds. Im pleased that Lloyds has 
apologised for its handling  of Mr Cs concerns, and I think its offer of £150  compensation is 
fair and reasonable, particularly as there does not appear to have been financial detriment to 
Mr C. I trust that Lloyds offer of compensation is still open  to Mr C and I recommend  he 
contact Lloyds to arrange payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1430303