K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains CIS General Insurance Limited wont  provide cover for trace and access  
works hes had completed to identify the source  of an electrical fault. 
For ease, Ill refer to CIS throughout which  includes its agents  or those acting on its behalf. 
background
Mr A has his Post Office insurance with CIS. Mr A found his electricity wasnt  working  in his 
garage and kitchen. He called  a contractor who wasnt able to identify the fault. Contractors 
had spent a substantial amount of time at the property and were looking to break  through the 
ceiling and floorboards  to try and further identify where the fault lay. 
Mr A called CIS to find out if he was covered. CIS explained he wasnt  covered  as trace  and 
access was for leaks and there wasnt evidence of a leak at the home. Mr A complained but 
CIS stood  by its decision.
Mr A asked us to look into the matter. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She 
concluded that trace and access cover is only provided for water or oil leaks.  As Mr As trace  
and access was to identify an electrical  fault, cover wasnt provided under the policy.  
Mr A has asked  for the matter to be reviewed. He doesnt believe the policy  wording is clear.  
He says it refers to many  causes and so the list isnt exhaustive. Hes also referred to the 
definition of buildings which includes permanently  connected drains pipes and cables.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below.
Mr As home insurance provides cover  for a number of different perils. But contrary  to Mr As 
view the list is exhaustive  and I dont find the terms ambiguous. 
I accept the policy summary does  set out that Your home and outbuildings are protected  
from many  causes, including  but not limited to  and following that is a list of some  of the 
perils. But that is a summary of the policy; the actual terms and what is covered are found in 
Section 1 (page 20) of the policy booklet.  The summary  does refer the policyholder to this 
section. It is Section 1 that sets out what is actually covered not the summary. 
Mr A has also referred to the definition of buildings. This does include permanently 
connected drains pipes and cables.  But its also explained at the top of the definitions page  
that Certain words  appearing in your  Policy wording, Schedule of Insurance or 
Statement of Insurance have been defined and they will have the same meaning wherever 
they are shown in bold.  That the definition of buildings includes cables doesnt mean trace  
and access for electrical problems is covered   as mentioned above, what  is covered is 
found in Section 1.
Under Section  1 there  are 14 perils the insurer will provide cover  for (I have not included  the 
exclusions):
1.Fire, smoke, explosion, lightning or earthquake.
Ref: DRN157069422.Riot, civil commotion,  strikes, political or labour disturbances
3.Malicious act or vandalism
4.Storm  or flood
5.Subsidence or heave  of the site on which the buildings stand or landslip
6.Theft or attempted theft
7.Escape of water
8.Collision with any aircraft or other  aerial  device (or anything  dropped  from them)  
or with any vehicle or animal
9.Leakage of oil from any fixed oil fired heating  installation
10.Falling trees and branches
11.Falling television, satellite broadcasting and radio receiving aerials,  aerial fittings 
or masts
12.Accidental damage  to underground pipes  or cables within the boundaries of 
your home
13.Accidental breakage of:
(i)Fixed  glass  including ceramic hobs and solar panels forming  part of the 
buildings; and
(ii)Fixed  sanitary ware  forming part of the buildings
14.Frost damage to any plumbed in domestic  water or heating  installation. 
There is no insured peril for electrical  problems. I have considered whether or not Mr As 
trace and access comes  within peril 12. Accidental damage is defined  as sudden,  
unintentional and unexpected physical damage  caused by an identifiable  external  means.  I 
have not been provided with evidence from either party that Mr As electrical  fault was 
underground or that it was caused by accidental damage as defined  within  the policy. That is 
the only possible peril in the list to which Mr As circumstances  might  have applied. And for 
the reasons given I find it doesnt.
Section 1 does  go on to list further  areas of cover (I havent included exclusions). These are:
A.Loss of rent and alternative accommodation  for you during  the period your  home 
is made uninhabitable by any cause  insured  under this section. 
B.The period  between exchange of contracts and completion for the sale and 
purchase of the home shown on your Schedule of Insurance .
C.Additional costs. If the following costs are incurred with the consent  of your 
insurer in making good the insured loss or damage, your insurer will pay for:
(i)Architects, surveyors,  consulting  engineers  and legal fees;
(ii)The cost of clearing  the site and making safe the damaged part of the 
buildings;
(iii)Costs incurred solely because of the need  to comply with any statutory 
requirement or local authority by-law;
(iv)The cost of making good  damage  to landscaped gardens caused by Fire 
Brigade equipment and personnel in the course of combating  fire.
D.Tracing and accessing  leaks inside the home.
The insurance provided by paragraphs 7 and 9 of section 1 also covers the 
reasonable costs  involved  in tracing  the source of the escape of water  or 
leakage of oil and replacement or repair of any walls, floors or ceilings (including  
fixtures and fittings attached to them), inside the home where this damage  
occurs in the course of these investigations. The most the insurer  will pay is 
£5,000.
E.Emergency access.
F.Theft or Loss of keys.
Ref: DRN15706943Section 1 does  cover  trace  and access but as shown  this is only for leaks  inside the home. 
Mr As trace  and access was to identify the source of an electrical  fault not a leak. And so his 
costs in identifying  that arent covered under  D. I have  considered  whether it comes  within  
the ambit  of C. But as Mr As loss isnt an insured loss or damage (as it doesnt  appear in 
the list of perils) Im not persuaded C applies either. 
I do understand Mr A found himself in a difficult situation. And I dont doubt that finding the 
source of the electrical problem will have come at a considerable cost to him. But I can only 
ask an insurer to provide  cover if the event claimed  for is an insured peril under the terms of 
the policy or its otherwise covered. So although I accept the definition of buildings  does 
include permanently connected cables, the event Mr A is claiming  for, an electrical fault,  isnt 
covered under the terms of the policy. I therefore find no basis  on which  to ask CIS to 
reimburse Mr As costs. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1570694