K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) didnt do enough  to help him 
manage his finances  when  he was experiencing financial difficulty.
background
Mr C has held a number  of accounts with RBS.  In recent years hes experienced financial 
difficulty, and doesnt  think the bank has done enough to help him manage his finances.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think RBS had any 
obligation to offer regular account reviews  to Mr C. The investigator was also satisfied that 
when Mr C contacted  RBS about his financial difficulties, the bank had done what  it could to 
try to help him.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint  has been passed  to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, Im not persuaded that RBS was obliged to review  Mr Cs accounts  on 
a regular basis, to check that they were still suitable  for him. I appreciate Mr C has strong 
feelings about this, but it was for him to ask for a review if he wanted  one. There was no 
obligation on RBS to carry out a review without a prompt from Mr C. So I dont think RBS is 
at fault in this respect.
Mr C says he thought  he had to keep his account  so that he could continue to use his 
overdraft. He says if RBS had properly reviewed  the account  he couldve changed it years 
ago, and avoided  the fees hes paid. I understand why Mr C might take this view,  but as Ive 
already said, Ive seen  nothing  to suggest that RBS had to carry out regular reviews as Mr C 
suggests.
When Mr C experienced  financial difficulty with his loan and mortgage, it seems  RBS 
discussed his income  and expenditure with him before setting up repayment  plans  to help 
him manage  what he owed. 
This is in line with how we would expect  a bank to treat a customer experiencing financial 
difficulty. I appreciate  that Mr C thinks RBS should have done more, but Im not persuaded 
that the banks  approach was incorrect on this occasion.
Overall, from what Ive seen, there  are no reasonable  grounds on which I can uphold  Mr Cs 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN15211002my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1521100