K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund  a series of payments  he says he 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
background
In June 2017, a series  of bank transfers were made from Mr Fs account. The total value of 
these transfers was just over £15,000.  
The transfers were  made using both Mr Fs internet banking facility and mobile banking. 
They all took place  during a period in which Mr F was overseas. He told us that he left the 
UK in December 2016 and didnt return until September 2017. Hes provided  copies of airline 
tickets to show this. In addition to requiring  the online banking details to be input correctly, 
Bank of Scotland has told us that an authentication phone call was made  to Mr Fs mobile 
phone.
Mr F told us that he hasnt shared his online banking log-in details with anyone  and that he 
took his phone and laptop with him when he travelled. In the month before these  disputed  
transactions, Mr F ended his monthly  contract with his mobile phone provider and switched 
to a pay-as-you-go (PAYG) arrangement. This required the provider to send him a new SIM. 
According to the mobile phone company, the new SIM was delivered to Mr Fs address in 
the UK in May 2017 when  he was out of the country. He was then free to transfer  his original 
phone number to the new SIM, although  he says that he never did so and the SIM wasnt  
activated. Mr F has speculated about the possibility that a fraudster took advantage of this 
change in order to gain access to his phone. 
Mr F says he didnt  authorise any of these  transfers and so thinks  Halifax  should refund  
them. The complaint was looked at by an investigator who said that, as these transactions 
were carried  out using Mr Fs internet banking details and required access  to Mr Fs phone,  it 
was more likely than not that Mr F had shared his online banking details with someone else. 
By extension, the investigator concluded  that he must have consented to the payments 
being made from his account.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said that hed been  clear that the phone  
was with him the whole  time,  that the replacement SIM was never used and that hed 
confirmed the dates he was outside  of the UK. He also thinks that we should  investigate the 
account that received the disputed payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same overall conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
The relevant  regulations  say that Halifax cant hold Mr F liable for these transactions  unless 
he authorised them.  It says he did authorise  them and I dont think  its unreasonable  for it to 
have come to that conclusion.
Halifax has provided evidence to show that each  transfer was properly authenticated.  For 
the online payments  to be processed, the log-in  details  for Mr Fs online banking  were 
verified. In addition, Halifax has shown that it followed an Enhanced  Internet  Authentication 
Ref: DRN10134872process  this meant an automated  phone call would be made to Mr Fs phone number 
quoting a code  that he needed  to input online. This authentication process meant  that, 
anyone wanting  to make  these  payments  from Mr Fs account would need to have  access to 
his online  banking log-in details and be able to receive calls made to his phone  number. 
Mr F said that his computer might have  been  hacked allowing a fraudster to obtain  the log-in 
details for his account. From what Mr F has told us, no-one else had physical access  to his 
computer and he didnt  allow  anyone to access it remotely.  And even if a fraudster had 
managed to install keylogging  software, Halifax has explained that the log-in process for 
online banking doesnt request the whole passcode. Instead, it asks for a random selection 
of digits. In the light of that, it would difficult for a potential fraudster to learn the security 
information for his account in this way. And in any event, it wouldnt explain how the alleged 
fraudster was also able to receive a call made to Mr Fs phone.
On balance, I agree with the adjudicator that its unlikely that a fraudster wouldve been able 
to obtain the necessary information  to allow them to make these transfers  from Mr Fs 
account. So, although I accept that it may not have been Mr F who carried out these 
transfers, I think its more likely  than not that he consented to them.
Finally, Mr F has said that we ought to be investigating the actions  of the bank  that received 
the disputed payments. But this complaint is against  Halifax  and the payments were made 
into an account with a different business  entirely. He is free to raise  his concerns with that 
business directly but because  of the time that these  payments were made and the rules  that 
were in force at the time, its unlikely wed have the power to consider any complaint on that 
subject that he wanted to refer to this service.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1013487