K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains about the service  she received from the TSB Bank plc (TSB). She feels 
TSB caused her current account to become overdrawn by approximately  £10,000, when  it 
debited the account by £10,671.73  in relation  to a declined chargeback. She feels that as a 
direct result of their action  she had to take out a high interest  rate loan to clear  the 
overdrawn balance on the account. 
background
On the 21 May 2018 Mrs T made a debit card payment to the Bank of Scotland (BOS) in the 
sum of £10,761.73. Unfortunately this was debited twice, but when Mrs T contacted BOS 
they said they couldnt find the second payment. So Mrs T contacted  TSB who refunded the 
second payment  to her account  on the 25 May. But, on the 15 June  BOS  returned the 
second payment  back to Mrs Ts account. 
Mrs T said she told TSB that BOS  had returned  the second payment, and that TSB advised 
her, in writing on the 21 June, that they would debit  it from her account.  Prior to that Mrs T 
made a series of transfers; on the 18 June  she transferred £5,000  to her easy saver 
account; on the 20 June she transferred £5,000 to her flexible savings account; on the 
30 June she transferred those two payments  back to her current  account; on the 7 August 
she transferred £10,000 to her easy saver account, and on the 15 September she 
transferred the £10,000 back to her current account.  Also that day Mrs T paid £10,000 to a 
personal loan account she had with TSB.  
On the 30 November TSB wrote to Mrs T explaining  it would be debiting her account on 
7 December, but they didnt actually do so until the 18 January 2019  when  they took out 
£10,671.73. It was this transaction  which made  her account  overdrawn  by £10,092.74. 
When Mrs T discussed  the matter with TSB they told her that they were unable  to debit her 
personal loan account in order  to put matters  right.  A TSB branch manager discussed 
repayment options with Mrs T and she chose to refinance her loan.  But, this loan had a 
higher rate of interest that the first loan she had. 
TSB didnt  think it had done  anything wrong as the error in making  the second payment was 
not of its making;  rather it was the originator of the debit card payment, BOS. It did accept it 
had taken some time to debit the monies from Mrs Ts account  but added  that the delay 
hadnt been to her detriment. It accepted it had written to Mrs T in June but said it had no 
record of Mrs T making calling between the 25 May and 6 December asking for the money  to 
be debited from her account. TSB also said it had discussed with Mrs T the various options 
open to her and she had elected to refinance her loan. In addition it also said it had not 
advised her to use the monies she had received back from BOS to pay her personal  loan.
Mrs T was unhappy with TSBs response  and so an adjudicator from this service looked  into 
the complaint  but didnt think TSB had done  anything wrong.  Mrs T disagreed  with that view 
and so the matter  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the adjudicators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
Ref: DRN11621382avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide.  
What I need to decide is whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mrs T. 
I must of course make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  it is appropriate so to do. I do not perform  
the role of the industry regulator, and nor I do not have the power to make  rules for financial 
businesses, punish  them, or direct  that they change their processes. This is not a court 
service and my aim is to ensure that a fair and reasonable outcome has been  achieved. 
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. I know TSB 
say it had no record of Mrs T contacting them, but I think it more  likely than not that she did. 
She has pursued this complaint appropriately  and with some vigour, and so I think it would 
be likely  that when  she received the money  back from BOS she would have contacted TSB. 
However, the difficulty which arises for Mrs T is that she chose to apply those monies  to her 
personal loan.  This was not something  she did on the advice of TSB. So, having done that 
when TSB ultimately  debited her account that left her with the problem of having to find 
funds to cover her overdrawn account balance. Had Mrs T left the monies  in either  her 
current account or one of her savings accounts,  then the problem wouldnt have arisen. So, 
in my view this is not a problem which has been caused by the TSB.
I can see that TSB tried to help her by discussing repayment  options  and making  
suggestions some of which were to try to source  a loan at a cheaper rate elsewhere.  And I 
also accept that TSB gave Mrs T the opportunity to make an informed decision which she 
did. Ultimately  it was Mrs T who opted  to take out the loan with the higher rate of interest 
with TSB, rather than pursue other options. 
Im not satisfied therefore that TSB have treated Mrs T unfairly. It was not the cause of the 
initial error, and it did not advise  Mrs T to repay her personal loan. The only failure  in service 
which has been identified  is that it was slow in debiting her account after telling her in June 
that it would  be doing so, and despite Mrs T ringing  to chase  matters  it was unable  to assist 
her and resolve the problem at that time.  
TSB have  recognised  its error and paid Mrs T £150.  I have thought about whether this is an 
adequate, fair and reasonable amount  of compensation,  and I think  it is. It is in line with the 
awards this service would  make  for distress  and inconvenience in circumstances like this.
my final decision
TSB has already paid £150 to settle the complaint and I think this is fair in all the 
circumstances. For the reasons set out above I do not uphold  the complaint  against 
TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11621383
Ref: DRN1162138