K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) wont refund several transactions  debited  
from his bank account which he says he didnt authorise in December 2017. 
background
In January 2018 Mr L spoke to HSBC and explained that most of the transactions debited  
from his account  in December 2017 were not done  by him, and as such  he didnt authorise 
them. The transactions disputed range from point of sale, card not present and ATM cash 
withdrawals. Both parties are aware  of the details of the individual  transactions  in 
December 2017,  so I wont repeat them here.  
Mr L says that he didnt have any need to use his bank account  in December as he had 
returned home on break from his studies, and there was no money in it. And he couldnt find 
the debit card when  he found out about  these transactions later in January 2018. 
Mr L doesnt know when  the card left his possession  he kept it in his wallet. He says that 
his mother had his PIN number but that was years before  this happened.  He  adds that he 
kept a record  of the PIN in his phone,  but the phone  was password protected. Mr L has 
added that he wasnt particularly protective of his phone and let friends  use it. 
Mr L also says he felt uncomfortable when he last used an ATM machine to withdraw cash  
as several men were  in close vicinity  to him. 
HSBC investigated  Mr Ls disputed transaction claim and concluded it wouldnt reimburse  
him. It said that the genuine card had been  used with the correct  PIN for the point of sale 
transactions. It also said that the Internet Protocol (IP) address used to undertake  
transactions to online merchants  matches  that to which Mr L had used for his internet 
banking. 
HSBC also said that there  was quite a long gap between when Mr L last used his PIN 
number until it was used  on the first disputed transaction that required a PIN. HSBC said if 
the PIN had been compromised then it wouldve expected  to have seen it used much 
sooner. It also questioned  why there  were  no further  attempts on the card after Mr L 
cancelled it. And so there was no explanation for how an unknown  third-party would  be 
aware of the card being cancelled. 
HSBC said that Mr L had been inconsistent  with the dates of the transactions  he disputes 
and that he confirmed some of them  as genuine  when HSBC  called him. 
Unhappy with what HSBC  said Mr L referred his complaint  to this service. Our investigator 
then looked into the matter and they found  that Mr L most likely authorised  the transactions  
in dispute. In summary, they said this because: 
it was likely the genuine card was used  and not a clone of it;
there was too large a gap between  the last time says he used his PIN and when it 
was used on one of the disputed  transactions;
there were no further transaction  attempts after Mr L cancelled  the card suggesting  
whoever was using  the card had knowledge of this;
she was unable to identify how a third-party was able to know Mr Ls billing address 
to complete the online transactions without his knowledge 
Ref: DRN17575112Mr L was unhappy  with this, which led to our investigator looking into the matter  again. In 
doing so our investigator added: 
there had been many  discrepancies with when Mr L had said the disputed  
transactions started from;
She questioned  how disputed online transactions were  carried  out from the same IP 
address used before genuinely by Mr L;
HSBC called Mr L on 29 December  2017  to ask him if transactions  carried  out that 
same day were  genuine. Mr L confirmed they were.
Still unhappy with what our investigator  had concluded, Mr L said this was his one and only 
bank account   and he wouldnt give information about it to anyone. 
It follows that this complaint has now been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, my review  of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  has set out and for 
much the same reasons.
Having reviewed Mr Ls transaction history,  Im satisfied the genuine card and PIN were  
used in order for the disputed transactions to take place  - these relate to ATM cash 
withdrawals and point  of sale payments. Im also persuaded the online transactions  wouldve 
been authenticated given  they would require  details about Mr Ls card and personal details.  
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable  HSBC 
to hold him liable.  So I also need  to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Mr L consented  to the transactions being made. 
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable nor unfair  for HSBC to conclude  that 
Mr L authorised the transactions. This is because: 
Mr L has been inconsistent on many occasions  as to when the disputed transactions  
took place. In January, when raising  the dispute  claim with HSBC, he said on a 
phone call that he was disputing all transactions since  23 December 2017. He initially  
told this service the disputed transaction started  on 9 December 2017,  later changing 
this to the 21 December 2017. These  dates  are very important given the high volume  
of transactions  that occurred during December 2017;
I accept its possible  the time that has elapsed since then has affected  Mr Ls 
recollections. But one of HSBCs fraud  teams called Mr L on the 29 December 2017 
and asked him if three transactions  carried out on that day  two to online merchants 
and one in a store  were genuine.  Mr L confirmed  they were.  Its worth  noting that 
despite Mr Ls inconsistencies around  when  the disputed transactions  happened,  he 
has always told our service  he didnt authorise transactions on 29 December 2017. 
To my mind this strongly indicates  that Mr L authorised the transactions himself  or he 
let an authorised third-party do so. I cant see why he would say he recognised  
transactions he later disputed under  a week later;
Ref: DRN17575113HSBC have given  me records relating to when  Mr Ls online account  was logged into. 
These records also include details  of the IP address  which is a unique  number 
assigned to a device connected to the internet. The records  show  Mr ls account was 
logged into between  the 25 December 2017 until the card was cancelled in January 
2018. The IP address during these numerous  log-ins is the same.  
Mr L hasnt said anything  about his mobile or other device he may have used  to 
access his bank account being  compromised. So, I think  its likely  he logged  in during 
this time period,  and so I question  why he didnt raise the claim about the 
transactions earlier with HSBC;
Theres no plausible reason to explain how Mr Ls PIN would have  been  
compromised by an unauthorised third-party.  Mr L has suggested he may have  been  
shoulder surfed by a group of men who made him feel uncomfortable at an ATM 
machine.   
Mr Ls inconsistencies with when the disputed  transaction  started  from havent  
helped here but given  how long before the last PIN attempt was on the account 
before the earliest disputed transaction, its unlikely a potential fraudster wouldve 
waited that long to carry the transactions out.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr L authorised the disputed  
withdrawals. It follows  that HSBC is entitled  to hold him liable for them, and this includes any 
charges or fees charged as a result of the withdrawals.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1757511