K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2000. Mr N says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
The card and policy were  originally sold by Egg. But Barclays has now taken responsibility 
for this sale,  so Ill refer to Barclays in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr N says that the PPI was just included with his credit card. But I think  Barclays made it 
clear that Mr N didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember this as it was so long ago. 
Mr N applied for his card and policy online,  and Barclays has shown  that its sales process  at 
the time presented the policy as optional  and that Mr N wouldve had to make  a choice in 
taking or declining PPI before completing his application, and that both choices wouldve 
been equally  prominent. I havent seen  anything to suggest that Barclays  did anything 
differently with Mr N when he applied for his card. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr N so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr N got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr N about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr N, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr N has said, but these points dont change my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN17023702my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr N any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1702370