K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that the child trust fund (CTF)  he holds for his daughter  was held in cash by 
BMO Asset Management Limited. 
background
In 2009, Mr H opened a CTF account,  and selected  the funds to be placed in the Foreign & 
Commonwealth US Smaller Companies (F&C).  
In 2013, due to change  in investment  managers, F&C notified its investors of the fund 
change. In January 2014, it sent a letter notifying its customers  of options they had available 
including what would  happen if it didnt hear back. Because  it didnt hear back  from Mr H, it 
followed the default option and held onto his money in cash.  
In 2019, Mr H complained  to the business. He feels his money shouldve  been reinvested in 
a similar  fund, rather than held in cash.  
The business didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
Since 2014, the CTF account has been  held in cash, because  the funds that he was 
invested in (F&C)  ceased to be an option under  its savings plans. 
In January 2014, it wrote to all its customers to let them  know of the options 
available, including  transferring to another provider,  or selling their shares and 
reinvesting.  
It wrote to Mr H but the letter was returned by Royal Mail. 
It was only made aware  of Mr Hs new address when he wrote  to the business to 
complain. 
Because it didnt  hear back from Mr H it took the default action which  was to sell the 
shares and hold his money in a cash account.   
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said: 
The address  the business had on file was the same address provided on the 
application form therefore she was unable to say it didnt have the correct address. 
Mr H notified the business of his change of address  when he registered his 
complaint. Theres no evidence that hed notified  the business of any change  prior to 
that.
The business only became aware that it didnt have Mr Hs correct  address in 2014, 
when its letter sent to Mr H was sent back undelivered. But it had no other  way of 
contacting him.
Shes unable  to say that the business  was wrong  to do what it did.  
The terms of the business made clear that F&C will not exercise any rights  on behalf  
of Account Holders without instructions therefore it wouldnt be fair to say that it 
shouldve re-invested the money instead.
The business sent Mr H a letter explaining what was happening and the options 
available to him, including what would happen  if it didnt hear back from him. 
Although Mr H didnt receive the letter, its more likely than not the letter was sent.
From  the information provided (since 2013), it was clear that itd charge an Annual 
Management Charge (AMC) for accounts opened with them. 
Ref: DRN12556902She cant say that the business  didnt  make Mr H aware of these charges. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view. He maintained that the business  was at fault for 
the wrong address and shouldve used  its own discretion to invest in a similar fund rather  
than selling the shares and holding the cash at a cost to him. 
He says business exercised so many decision without his consent this shouldnt be any 
different.  He feels what the business  has done was illegal and doesnt feel the investigator 
has fully understood  the implications of the business dramatically changing the asset 
allocation without his express permission. The business failings have caused him a 
significant financial loss. It wasnt his fault that F&C closed the funds, he shouldnt have to 
suffer for its decision. 
In summary,  the business made  the following observations:
Mr Hs points are contradictory: on the one hand  he complains the business is 
exercising its discretion by selling  Mr Hs shares,  and on the other  he then wants  it to 
use the same discretion  and invest in similar  funds. 
Its not possible to say what most similar fund wouldve been back in 2014. It had no 
fund exposed to the F&C funds. 
In its terms  and conditions it disclosed information on the removal of investment 
trusts. But it would  be impossible to flag up every  term that an investor might want to 
subsequently rely upon. 
Mr H fails to recognise his own responsibility  to ensure the account is kept up to date. 
Had he done so, he wouldve  been  able choose  an alternative to the default  position. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr H says, Im not persuaded 
that the business has behaved unreasonably.
Im satisfied that the business took reasonable steps to notify Mr H of changes to its fund 
status. It gave him options, including notifying  him what  would happen if it didnt hear back 
from him.  I dont think what it did was unreasonable in the circumstances.  
The letter that the business wrote  to Mr H was addressed to the home address it had for him 
on file  as it did for all its other customers  I dont think  there was any reason for the 
business to try and contact him in a different way.  
I appreciate Mr H says the business  didnt take down his correct  address on the application 
 although its unclear  what exactly happened  it seems to me the business wouldve  only 
recorded the information that it was given. 
Ref: DRN12556903Its possible the business couldve made  an error  although on balance  Im not persuaded 
that it did  but even  if the incorrect address was recorded Mr H ought to have raised the 
issue when checking  through the paperwork. But Ive seen no evidence  of that or of any 
issue being raised until 2019  when  he raised  the complaint. That was the first time since  
investing the CTF that Mr H provided his correct address.  
So the business wouldnt have known  at the time of writing  to Mr H about his options   that 
he wasnt at the address,  and given that it wrote to him (in the same way it did for its 
customers) Im unable to say that it failed to make  reasonable  efforts  to contact Mr H and 
notify him of the changes.   
Whatever the reason, I appreciate that because  Mr H didnt receive  the letter he couldnt  
have responded  or chosen  one of the options.  I dont think  thats his fault, but I dont think its 
the fault of the business either, because Im satisfied  it took reasonable steps to notify him of 
the changes and what he could do if he wasnt happy with it. Therefore on balance Im 
satisfied it was entitled to pursue the default option.  
Thats why the business de-invested and held the cash  proceeds for him. I understand that 
its continued to charge  Mr H £25 plus VAT as the AMC, but I think  this was for the service  it 
was providing, in other words for holding the CTF account as cash.  So I dont think its 
required to refund the money. I appreciate this was likely to have had an impact on Mr Hs 
cash assets but I cant blame the business for this. 
In the circumstances I dont think the business  couldve  taken steps to re-invest Mr Hs 
money without his express  consent. There was simply no contractual basis  to do so without 
his authority. And to have done  so, the business wouldve acted incorrectly  and contrary to 
its own terms and conditions.   
Mr H is still free to invest his money into other  available funds or transfer to another  provider 
that the business can assist with, but he may wish to obtain financial advice before deciding  
what to do. 
I think the consequence of investing in what the business determined as similar funds 
without Mr Hs consent, and potentially losing his money wouldve meant there was no way 
back and wouldve been far worse  than de-investing and keeping hold of his money  
available for future investments. 
There was no way of knowing that investing in similar funds would bring about the closest  
outcome as there are no guarantees. But if Mr H had chosen funds, and things didnt work 
out, it wouldnt be the business fault. 
Im unable to say the business has acted unreasonably  in the circumstances.  Despite what  
Mr H now says, I think the first option was a more dramatic option,  and with potentially 
irreversible consequences.   
Whilst I appreciate the business has made  many  decisions without Mr Hs express  consent,  
clearly this was one of those decisions  it couldnt  have made without his authority and 
therefore chose  to hold onto his investment in cash as the default option. I dont think  I can 
blame the business for this. 
This is generally how a business operates in these circumstances,  when particular funds are 
no longer available. Its common industry practice to have a default option rather  than using 
Ref: DRN12556904the business discretion to invest  into funds  without the investors  consent.  This process isnt 
unique to the business.    
In conclusion, if Mr H didnt notify the business of his change of address I cant  hold the 
business responsible for this, as there was no away it couldve reasonably known.  And I 
dont think it couldve reasonably done  any more  in the circumstances to convey  the 
message to Mr H.
Overall, the action it took was reasonable and broadly in line with common industry practice.  
Im mindful of the comments Mr H makes  about  the legality of this decision but in short  the 
decision would be legally binding upon him and the business only if he accepts my findings. 
If he doesnt, my decision isnt binding on either party. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1255690