K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A.s (Mapfre) settlement of their delayed  baggage  claim under their travel 
insurance.
My references to Mapfre include its agents.
background
When Mr and Mrs W and their children took a flight to Europe  their baggage was delayed.  
The suitcases arrived the next day, over 24 hours later than the familys arrival.
Mr and Mrs W claimed for £300 delayed baggage and listed the items theyd bought  due to 
the delay; bikini, swim trunks, coffee, tea and toothbrushes, which  totalled  about 39 Euros.
Mapfre paid about  38 Euros  for the bikini, swim trunks and toothbrushes. It said the drinks 
weren't covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs W complained. They said the policy stated:  
Section/Description                                    Premier Cover Limit  (per insured persons)
Delayed baggage  (after 24 hours)              £250 (£50 per 24 hours)
Mr and Mrs W believe the policy wording means  Mapfre should pay them  the full cover 
amount for the four people insured under the policy.
Our investigator thought Mapfre had made a fair settlement of the claim.
Mr and Mrs W disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They  say they took out the 
policy understanding they would be covered  if something went  wrong and it was 
unbelievable that Mapfre published  a schedule  outlining  the amount to be claimed and then 
didnt pay the amount.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
The baggage delay section of the policy says Mapfre will pay: 
You up to the amounts shown in the Policy  Schedule for:
a)Delayed Baggage  The emergency replacement  of clothing, medication and 
toiletries if the Baggage is temporarily lost in transit  during the outward journey and 
not returned to You within 12 hours,  provided written  confirmation  is obtained  and 
sent to Us from the carrier, confirming the number of hours the Baggage was 
delayed.
Mr and Mrs W had premier plus cover (not premier  cover) and the amount shown in the 
schedule for the correct  cover is:
Ref: DRN14948412Section/Description                                    Premier Plus Cover  Limit (per insured persons)
Delayed baggage  (after 24 hours)              £300 (£75 per 24hrs).
Mr and Mrs W have  misunderstood the cover given by the policy.  The policy  wording is very 
clear the cover is for the cost of specified  emergency replacements if their baggage is 
delayed on the outward  journey for more than 12 hours  up to the limit above.
The cover limit is the maximum cost of items  Mapfre will cover.  The cover limit isnt the 
amount Mapfre has to pay irrespective of the cost of the emergency  replacement items. The 
policy is clear  about  that.
On the claim form Mr and Mrs W detailed  the emergency replacement  clothing and toiletries 
they bought due to the baggage delay, with evidence of purchase.  Mapfre paid for the cost 
of those items. It didnt  have to pay for the tea and coffee as the policy  term doesnt cover  
food.
Theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs W bought any more emergency  replacement items due 
to their baggage  being  delayed than are detailed on the claim form.
Most, if not all, travel insurance policies have baggage delay cover that works the same way 
 theres cover for the purchase cost of essential  items up to a policy  limit. Mapfres policy  
term isnt an unusual term.
Mapfre has made a fair and reasonable settlement of Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1494841