K820x#14complaint
Miss G says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss G bought the policy in 2007  at the same time as taking out a further advance to her 
existing mortgage  (the existing mortgage started  in 2006.) She applied for the advance and 
PPI policy  over the phone. 
The policy provided  cover  for Miss G for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £635 a month towards Miss Gs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost a little under £38 a month.  
At the time,  Miss G was employed as a personal  assistant. She has told us she was not 
entitled to any enhanced  sick pay, and other than help from family,  she didnt have any other 
means of repaying  her mortgage should she be unable  to work. Miss G made no mention of 
any entitlement to redundancy  pay. Miss G has said she had two medical  conditions  prior to 
or at the time of the sale. Ill come back to this later on.
Im mindful that in telling us she didnt have  any sick pay, Miss G assumed shed only been 
with her employer for a handful of months   but BoS records show shed actually been  with 
her employer for around three years. So its possible her employee benefits were  slightly  
better than she remembers. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the original mortgage accounts  started  in 
December 2006;  the further  advance started  in June 2007; and the mortgage account was 
still running when  BoS submitted its complaint file to us in 2017. BoS has said the PPI ended 
in November 2007.
Miss Gs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Gs representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss G wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Gs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Miss G about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN16066752The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss G and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Miss G received was misleading. These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Gs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Gs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Ref: DRN16066753Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
The sale took place  after insurance mediation  became a regulated activity in January 2005, 
so BoS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when considering  
Miss Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN16066754-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Miss G with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Miss G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss G, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss G suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss G and 
BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss G know  she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. Miss G says she was not given  an 
option.
This was a sale by phone. BoS hasnt been  able to provide a call recording of the sale  
perhaps not surprising given  things  happened many years ago. But it has provided us with 
an example call script that it says its advisers  would have  followed in sales  like Miss Gs. 
Looking at this I can see the adviser  was prompted to say that they could ...give  you 
appropriate advice  on our optional protection plan. It also appears that a customer wouldve 
been asked for their consent to take out PPI.
Im mindful too that Miss Gs further  advance offer letter said that she didnt need to take out 
any insurance through BoS and that the only insurance she had to take out as a condition of 
the borrowing  was buildings  insurance  but this didnt have to be taken out with BoS. 
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  that 
something different  happened in Miss Gs case,  I think its more likely  than not that Miss G 
knew the policy was optional and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Both BoS and Miss G agree that advice was provided during  this sale. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Miss G with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know exactly what was discussed in the phone  sales  call, the documentary  
evidence suggests  that BoS took some  steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss G. The adviser had information about  some of Miss Gs financial 
circumstances as part of the advance application. And although a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Miss G had a need for the policy  by 
asking questions about her wider  circumstances such as what  existing  means she had  
Ref: DRN16066755I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. I say this because it appears the 
adviser would  have only asked Miss G about very specific health conditions she had rather 
than more general questions about her overall health. This was important to establish  
whether Miss G might have been  caught  by the significant exclusion around existing medical 
conditions meaning  the policy might  not have been entirely suitable for her.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Miss G given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss G, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss G met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Miss G had a need for the policy   by her own testimony Miss G would not have 
received any sick pay if she was unable to work due to illness, her redundancy 
benefits were likely to be limited and she didnt have any savings she could fall back  
on. While  she said she couldve relied on her help from her mother, Im not 
persuaded this can reasonably be considered as guaranteed and I dont think  it was 
reasonable for the adviser  when recommending the policy  to have thought  it was. 
Miss G was also solely  responsible  for the debt.  So I think the policy would have 
helped Miss G manage the consequences  if she was unable  to work at what would 
likely be a difficult and perhaps  uncertain time.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss G.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss G. There  
was nothing about Miss Gs employment or occupation which would have  made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Miss G has told 
us about - she has said that while she cant remember the exact  date, she was 
diagnosed with a not uncommon respiratory  condition in her early adult years. In her 
PPI questionnaire she said it was treated with medication and shed missed  some 
work because of it. 
But when we asked  her representative for more details, including whether shed seen 
a doctor  about  it and if shed had time off work because of it in the more recent years 
in the run up to the sale, Miss G said she couldnt  remember because  it was too long 
ago.
Im mindful that its possible  Miss Gs condition might have been considered chronic  
under terms  of the policy - i.e. it was constant  and controlled rather  than cured  in 
which case it was likely  excluded meaning Miss G wouldnt have been able to claim 
on the policy for this condition. But this conditions severity differs widely  for different 
people  for some the treatment can ostensibly  amount to a cure.
So taking everything above into account,  including the absence of persuasive 
evidence that Miss Gs condition was severe,  I dont think I can fairly  and reasonably 
conclude that it was wrong for BoS to have recommended the cover.
Ref: DRN16066756Miss G told us in her original PPIQ  about another injury/condition she says he had 
around six years before  the sale. But when we asked  her representative for more 
information about this at the same time as asking about her other condition, Miss Gs 
representative said nothing about it. It could be inferred from their silence  that the 
original information  was incorrect and this wasnt an existing condition.  Or its 
possible that the lack of further information  means this was more of a one-off 
condition or incidence rather than something  which was ongoing.  But in any event, 
on the basis that the existing medical condition exclusion was time limited  Miss G 
could claim for an existing condition so long as shed been  symptom free for 24 
months - Im not persuaded the policy was unsuitable for Miss G.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
or gainful occupation condition and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy still provided beneficial  cover 
given: Miss Gs circumstances,  the fact the policy protected the mortgage 
repayments relating  to her home  and the potential consequences should Miss G be 
unable to make the repayments on loans secured against  her home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Miss G sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss G was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because the sales script,  which I think is representative of how the phone sales  
discussion wouldve likely been carried out with Miss G, shows  that Miss G would have been 
told this. I also think its unlikely Miss G would have taken out the policy  without any sense of 
what the policy was for. 
I also think Miss G wouldve been told the benefit  and the actual cost  the script prompts 
the adviser to explain that the cover  pays enough to cover the monthly mortgage payment 
and any mortgage  related  bills and to give the cost for each element of cover  taken.  
The script also suggests that Miss G wouldve been  given some  information about the 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover. But given the importance of this information 
and in the absence of a call recording,  Im not persuaded the evidence from the time of sale 
tells us whether  BoS gave sufficient information  about the exclusions or limitations before 
Miss G agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss G, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BoS gave Miss G all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ref: DRN16066757Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Gs representative has raised a 
number of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Gs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Gs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss G about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Gs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss G has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards 
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoS shortcomings have on Miss G? To what extent did Miss  G suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Miss G. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss G 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss G 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BoS done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Miss G, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss G has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Miss G would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Miss G says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN16066758Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss G had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her mortgage payments in the event she was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Gs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, Im persuaded  that the information Miss G was likely given 
about the cost and the benefit was clear. I also think Miss G was told that the policy would 
only pay out for 12 months and not the term of the mortgage  again  the script prompts  the 
adviser to explain  this. But the information about  other aspects of the policy,  such as the 
significant limitations and exclusions was not likely as clear as it should  have  been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss G thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following - albeit as I said above  that Miss G might have 
been given some information about these:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms, whether 
diagnosed or not that Miss G knew about  or ought reasonably  to have known about 
at the start date of the policy   subject to a time limit;
Chronic conditions  were excluded; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss G 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss G be unable  
to do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience,  education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss G pause for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss G from taking  
out the policy. 
Ref: DRN16066759But the evidence  about Miss Gs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  useful  to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Miss G says she had two medical 
condition before the PPI was taken out I dont think better information about this exclusion 
would have put her off agreeing to it. I say this for the same reasons I set out above  as to 
why I nevertheless think the policy was suitable  for her. And I havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest she wouldve  been caught  by any of the other significant exclusions.  So I still think  
she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions (after  a three-month  period) were 
more onerous than Miss G might  reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have  
expected to be able to make a disability claim without having  to provide some evidence  to 
support that claim. And while  this limitation  might  have  dissuaded  some  consumers in 
slightly different circumstances to Miss G from taking  out the policy,  Miss G, in her 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Miss G had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do her 
job or any similar job but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Miss Gs 
circumstances and the limited other means  she had to make her repayments if she wasnt  
working, on balance,  I still think she would have been interested in taking  out the cover.
So, having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more 
likely than not Miss G would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  she thought she was getting and provided benefits 
that would  help her manage the consequences if she was made redundant, or unable to 
work through  disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss G would  
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Miss Gs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss G would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN160667510Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss G 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss G believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss G in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Miss G compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss G thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoS 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Miss G, in the way it did, was insufficient to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2007 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Gs representative says a court might take if it 
were to find BoS negligently misrepresented  the contract to Miss G and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss G in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN160667511Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1606675