K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Ms H and Mr D 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy covering a mortgage  which  started in 
1989.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms H and Mr D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available  only some  basic records exist. Also I wouldnt expect someone  to 
recall in detail everything that happened so many years ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
This all happened  about 30 years  ago, and there is no cogent evidence that Bank of 
Scotland added  the PPI without Ms H and Mr Ds consent, or presented  it as compulsory.  
Ms H has said she wasnt  aware shed had PPI until she made  an enquiry to Bank of 
Scotland in recent years. She says shed had no knowledge of PPI being connected with her 
mortgage, but:
then it occurred to me that the policy they were  talking about might  have been a 
policy which  I did remember having  taken  out at the time, which had not been  
described to me as a PPI policy but which I had been told was an insurance policy 
that me and my then partner  had to take out in order to protect the Halifax [Ms Hs 
emphasis] against  the possibility that we might become unable to make  payment on 
the mortgage.  
I have to make a decision on the balance  of probabilities   that is to say, I must decide  
what is more likely  than not to have happened. Ms Hs representative has said the 
adjudicator didnt apply this test when expressing  the view that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. But I dont  agree.  
Ref: DRN14653142I dont think this evidence  from Ms H means  its likely Bank of Scotland  mis-sold  the PPI. 
First, as this happened  so long ago, I cant be sure that Ms H is remembering the 
conversation she had accurately  and I can see that, in the questionnaire she filled in for 
the ombudsman  service, she says a number of times she cant  remember details from the 
time the application  was made.  This isnt surprising, and certainly isnt a criticism  of her. But I 
cant say, without knowing what Halifax probably said, that it acted unfairly in the way Ms H 
and Mr D suspect.
And secondly it sounds as though Ms H may be describing the kind of indemnity fee which 
some lenders charged when they thought the risk of lending was too high  for example 
when the loan to value  ratio was high. It meant it could buy an insurance policy to protect 
itself against the risk of the borrowers defaulting. This is something different from PPI, which  
instead was a protection for the customer in case they couldnt afford  their monthly mortgage  
payments, due to sickness or redundancy. I dont know whether this is the case.  But it does, 
to my mind, support my view that there is only a suspicion, and not actual evidence, that 
Bank of Scotland sold the PPI without proper consent  and also that there  may be other 
explanations of what Ms H recalls.
The processes at the time did require a lender  to make clear  that PPI was a choice. And I 
dont have any real evidence that Bank of Scotland failed in this duty. So, although I cant  be 
sure, I think on the balance of probabilities Bank  of Scotland did set out the PPI as a choice. 
Ive looked to see if there is evidence that Bank of Scotland may have mis-sold the PPI in 
other ways.  But, again  Ive not found this:
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Ms H and Mr D, which means  it had to 
check the PPI was suitable  for them. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on 
what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time. Being  unable to pay a mortgage  can 
lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would  have paid benefits at the same  time as 
Ms H and Mr D received any employer sick pay, and potentially  for longer. It would have 
paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy  pay. And it would have put off 
the time when they would need  to fall back on any other means  they may have had for 
paying the mortgage. This all would have put Ms H and Mr D in a more  secure  position,  if 
they eventually  lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not 
been told anything  to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when  they took it out. So I 
think the PPI would have been  potentially useful. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Ms H and Mr D took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Ms H and Mr D would  have been affected  by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1465314