K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains  about how Bulstrad Life Vienna  Insurance  Group  JSC (Bulstrad)  handled a 
claim under her travel insurance policy when she suffered a medical emergency abroad.  
All references to Bulstrad  include the agents it has appointed to handle claims. 
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  in full
here.
In summary,  Ms A was bitten by a wild animal  while on holiday  abroad  and contacted
Bulstrad for advice.
Bulstrad said Ms A needed post-exposure treatment which  wasnt available in the location
she was in, so Ms A travelled to a medical centre  some hours away where she received the
first of a series  of vaccines.
Bulstrad said, in addition  to the vaccines,  Ms A also needed rabies immunoglobin  (Rig)
medication. After making enquiries about the availability of Rig in the continent where Ms A
was travelling and also looking  into the options of either couriering Rig to Ms A or arranging
for her to travel elsewhere abroad  to get the medication, Bulstrad repatriated Ms A to the
UK.
However, by the time Ms A arrived back in the UK, it was too late for her to receive Rig
there. Ms A finished her course of vaccines  in the UK before recommencing her travels  on a
flight arranged by Bulstrad.
Ms A made a claim with Bulstrad for her out-of-pocket  expenses  in the UK and abroad and
complained about the way the matter had been handled. Bulstrad said it had acted in line
with medical advice but offered Ms A £100 compensation for the level of service shed
received over the phone  while abroad.
As Ms A remained  unhappy, she brought her complaint  to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. He didnt uphold Ms As complaint
initially but, after reviewing further  information,  he recommended  that Bulstrad  should  pay
Ms A compensation totalling £400.
Ms A didnt accept our investigators  recommendations  and Bulstrad didnt respond, so the
complaint was passed to me to decide. I made my provisional decision about Ms As 
complaint in June  2020. In it, I said:
Ms As inability to receive Rig when she arrived back  in the UK appears to have arisen due
to the differences between UK and US medical advice.
UK medical  advice says Rig should  not be administered more  than seven  days  after the first
dose of vaccine  or more  than one day after the second dose  of vaccine. When  Ms A got
back to the UK, she was still within seven days of her first vaccine. But, because shed
already received a second vaccine  more than one day previously, Rig wasnt administered.
US medical  advice, which Bulstrad  appears  to have  been following, says Rig can be
Ref: DRN15969192administered up to seven  days  after the first dose  of vaccine. This medical advice is silent on
the administration of Rig after the second vaccine.
Ms A feels it wasnt appropriate for Bulstrad to act in line with US medical advice because
she wasnt in the US and it didnt send her there to receive Rig. Ms A says Bulstrad should
have acted in line with the specific medical advice of the country she was in, or with UK
medical advice. She says,  if Bulstrad had checked  UK medical advice,  it would have realised
there was no need to send her back to the UK. So, she feels  Bulstrad shouldnt have
repatriated her to the UK and she could instead  have remained  abroad, having the
remainder of her series of vaccines there.  Ms A then wouldnt have received Rig medication,
but she didnt  receive  this anyway as it was too late for the medication to be effective by the
time Bulstrad repatriated her to the UK.
I appreciate, with the benefit of hindsight,  Ms A feels her repatriation was unnecessary and
she could have remained abroad. But I dont  agree  with Ms A and Ill explain why.
In deciding what I think should have happened  in this case, Ive thought about whether Ms A
needed Rig in the first place.
The terms and conditions  of Ms As policy say Bulstrad will provide help if a policyholder is ill
or injured outside their home country. The policy says Bulstrad will pay for:
emergency medical  and surgical treatment in the nearest  appropriate hospital
When providing assistance to a policyholder  in a medical emergency, Id expect Bulstrad to
make decisions  in line with all the medical  information available  to it, with the policyholders
best interests in mind.
The medical evidence  which  Bulstrad was acting on in this case states that Rig is a
recommended treatment in the circumstances Ms A was in. Bulstrads medical opinion
states;
the gold standard is rIG and the universal  global thoughts on RIG are that is [sic]
should be given  into the site of the wound  at the earliest  possible  opportunity  post
exposure.
Id have considered  it wholly unreasonable if Bulstrad had disregarded  this medical advice
and decided Ms A didnt  need Rig at all.
What I think should  have happened  in this case is that Bulstrad should have begun  to make
enquiries about the availability of Rig as soon as possible  after Ms A notified it about  what
had happened. Bulstrad  didnt do this. Bulstrad identified that Ms A needed Rig within a few
hours but it took Bulstrad a further three  days to establish that it was almost impossible to
obtain Rig in the country Ms A was in. I think this was an unreasonable  delay.
If Bulstrad had made immediate attempts to source  Rig, as I think it should have, it would
have realised much sooner that Ms A would need to be repatriated to the UK to receive Rig.
I think its unlikely Bulstrad would  ever have sent Ms A to the US to receive  Rig when the
medication was available in the UK.
So, this means Ms A would always have needed  to return home  to receive  the
recommended medical treatment, thereby  losing  part of her holiday.  This was as a result of
Ref: DRN15969193the unfortunate incident of being  bitten and the lack of availability of the medication she
needed in the continent she was in, rather than as a result of any errors on the part of
Bulstrad.
Ms A would  therefore  always  needed  to have  arranged to pay for accommodation while she
was back in the UK, and she would always have incurred costs in re-arranging  flights  shed
already booked as these  arent costs that are covered under her policy.  Ms As costs in
resuming her trip also arent covered under  her policy,  but I understand Bulstrad paid for this
as a return flight was less than the cost of a single trip back to the UK from abroad.
Having said that, I think Bulstrad made errors  in this case  and it didnt  handle  Ms As claim
as it should have. Longstanding industry rules  and guidance say an insurer  should  handle a
claim promptly and fairly  and provide appropriate  information on its progress.
I dont think Bulstrad had regard to the very obvious  urgency of Ms As situation. As Ive
already explained above, I think Bulstrad delayed in trying to source Rig. Bulstrad then
further delayed  in arranging flights back to the UK for Ms A. Bulstrad didnt plan these flights
until four days after Ms A first informed it of the incident, despite Ms A asking more  than
once if returning  to the UK would be the best option  in the circumstances.
I dont think Bulstrad communicated  effectively with Ms A and she continually  had to chase it
for updates. At times, Bulstrad seemed unsure of how to proceed  which  must have been
very concerning for Ms A given the situation she was in.
A number  of Bulstrads calls with Ms A were,  I think, particularly unhelpful and unproductive.
In one call with Ms A, Bulstrad told her that normally  people in her situation would have
vaccines in advance. The word stupid  wasnt used but I can understand why Ms A was
upset by this call and felt she wasnt being  provided  with the assistance she needed in an
emergency.
Bulstrad also provided Ms A with no assistance in arranging  for Rig to be available  on her
return to the UK. While Ms As policy doesnt  cover the cost of medical  treatment in the UK,
Bulstrad was responsible for ensuring  the treatment which  Ms A needed would be available
at the location it was sending her to. I dont  think Bulstrads comments that Ms A held a
travel insurance policy and not a private medical  insurance policy  were  helpful, and I think it
should have provided her with some assistance  with this.
Overall, I think Bulstrads  delays caused Ms A significant distress, worry and upset.  This is
very clear from her contact with Bulstrad while she was abroad.
I think Bulstrad should pay further compensation to Ms A for the impact of its actions on her.
Im satisfied that a total payment of £800 would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
This includes the £100 compensation which Bulstrad  has already offered.
I understand Ms A is also unhappy with the length  of time Bulstrad took to address her
complaint. Bulstrad provided a final response  letter to Ms A within eight weeks, as the
regulator requires  it to do.
Both Bulstrad and Ms A indicated that they accepted my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN15969194my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Bulstrad  nor Ms A have provided  any additional submissions or new evidence,  I 
see no reason to change my provisional findings. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms As complaint in part. 
I direct  Bulstrad  Life Vienna Insurance Group JSC to pay Ms A £800 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she experienced. This includes the £100 already offered. 
Bulstrad Life Vienna Insurance Group  JSC must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the 
date we tell it Ms A accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2020
Leah Nagle
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1596919