K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy taken out with a mortgage. Mr S says that Santander UK Plc mis-sold the policy.
background
Mr S bought the policy when he took out a mortgage in March 2010. The policy  covered 
Mr S and it wouldve provided him with a benefit in the event he wasnt working due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy cost £25.27 each month  and in the event of 
a successful claim wouldve paid a monthly  benefit  of £326 for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  succeed. He said that Santander 
shouldnt have sold the policy to Mr S without highlighting the significant policy exclusions 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions.
Santander disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide. It says Mr S condition  wasnt  
confirmed, it was simply a suspected condition.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr S complaint.
Ive considered what Mr S and Santander say and Ive decided to uphold  this complaint 
because I dont think that Santander  met all of Mr S information needs  in particular about 
the exclusions relating to pre-existing  medical conditions. And I think  he wouldve decided  
against buying the policy if this had been  done.
At the time of sale, Mrs J had a medical  condition, the details of which  are known to all 
parties. The medical notes hes supplied confirm  the symptoms he was experiencing and 
confirm the suspected diagnosis pre-2010. The medical notes also provide details of the 
regular medication  he was prescribed in respect of the medical symptoms he was 
experiencing. Mr S confirmed he was on regular medication and had taken time off work  as 
a direct result of the medical condition.
Santander doesnt dispute Mr S medical records, but it says because  his condition  hadnt 
been formally confirmed  and diagnosed,  it shouldnt be treated as a pre-existing medical 
condition. And its supplied a copy of the relevant policy document to support its position.
Ive read the relevant section of the policy document very carefully and I dont agree with 
Santander. The section  on exclusions  says we  will not pay for any condition, injury,  
illness, disease, sickness or related condition and/or associated symptoms,  whether 
diagnosed or not which you knew about, or should  reasonably have known about at the 
start  So Im satisfied  that Mr S condition  wouldnt have been covered.
Mr S says that the sale took place in a branch. I dont know what  was discussed during this 
meeting, but there isnt sufficient evidence  for me to conclude that this very significant 
exclusion was highlighted or discussed. Because of this, I dont think  it wouldve been  clear 
to him that he wouldve  been affected  by specific policy exclusions regarding his pre-existing 
Ref: DRN14773272medical condition.  And the policy booklet  only makes reference to the exclusions half way 
through the brochure in relatively small print. There is no evidence  to suggest this was 
highlighted in any way for Mr S or drawn to his attention  when he decided to take the policy 
out.
Ive considered that it was Mr S responsibility to consider suitability;  however,  it was still 
Santanders responsibility to ensure that the information was sufficiently  clear  and that any 
limitations or exclusions that might be significant to Mr S were pointed  out so that he could 
make an informed choice.
I dont think this information was sufficiently drawn to Mr S attention and if it had been, he 
would, more likely than not, have refused the policy.  I say this because Mr S had a medical 
condition and it was an ongoing condition. I think Mr S wouldve felt this to be the most likely 
cause of him having time off work  at that time and yet the policy  would not have covered him 
for this. I believe this wouldve mattered to him and that if better information had been 
provided, he wouldnt have thought  the policy was good value as the benefits would have 
been severely limited  for him.
In summary,  I dont think that Mr S wouldve purchased the MPPI policy,  if he had been 
given sufficiently clear  and fair information  about  its exclusions.
I have noted all of Santanders submissions but these do not alter my conclusions.  It follows  
that I uphold  this complaint.
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander UK Plc should put Mr S in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Santander UK Plc 
should:
- Pay Mr S the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
- Add simple interest  to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest  is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
- If Mr S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Santander UK Plc can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Santander UK Plc must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
he asks for one.
Ref: DRN14773273my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I determine  this complaint in favour of Mr S. I require 
Santander UK Plc to pay Mr S fair compensation in accordance with the calculation of 
redress I have set out above. I make no further  award against Santander UK Plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1477327