K820x#14complaint
Miss W is unhappy  that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont pay her claims for theft and malicious 
damage under her home  insurance.
background
In August  2017,  Miss W reported  a claim for malicious damage and theft at her property. 
She had had her ex-partner visiting, when a row blew up. He started smashing things, so 
she left with her children and called  the police. The ex-partner smashed  several  windows to 
the property and left it unsecured. Miss W says that several items were stolen from the 
property. AXA sent a contractor round to secure  the property, but this could only be done on 
a temporary basis. Miss W made a further claim for theft in October 2017. She said the back 
door had been  forced. Her car keys and other  items, including  a boiler in a box that was 
awaiting installation, were  stolen.  I understand Miss W made a further claim in February 
2018, but that doesnt form part of this complaint.
AXA wouldnt pay the first claim (which involved both malicious damage and theft).  It 
explained that there was an exclusion for malicious damage in the policy where caused by 
persons invited onto the premises. It wouldnt pay in respect of the theft because Miss W 
hadnt reported the stolen  items to the police. Also it said there was an exclusion in the 
policy for theft claim where there  was no forcible  or violent entry to or exit from the premises 
where someone other than Miss W or her family also occupied  the property. As far as Im 
aware AXA has accepted part of the October  2017 claim, and made a pay-out.
Miss W complained about AXAs decision not to pay her for the first theft claim. She alleges 
that AXA left her property  insecure. She further  says the front door was damaged by an 
engineer she called out under the home  assistance  part of the policy.  She also says that 
AXA delayed in making enquiries  and in deciding the claims.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision. These were my findings:
Turning to the circumstances  of the first claim,  Miss W had clearly allowed  her ex-partner 
onto the premises.  Under  the malicious  damage  part of the policy, AXA wont pay where the 
damage was caused by any person  Miss W or her family allowed into the home. So I think 
its decision not to pay that part of the claim was reasonable.
With regard to the theft of the items, AXA says that the following exclusion to the theft cover  
applies (ie AXA wont pay):
Loss or damage from your home  if any part of it is occupied  by anyone other than you or 
your family, unless there  has been forcible  and violent entry to or exit from your home.
The essential part of this is that it only applies if anyone other  than you or your family  is 
occupying the property.  Theres no particular definition of occupying  or occupied in the 
policy. But realistically  I think  that means  living  there, and I think  Miss Ws ex-partner clearly 
wasnt.
Our investigator said that the policy also states that the policyholder  must take reasonable 
precautions to avoid  loss or damage, and take all reasonable steps  to safeguard  all the 
Ref: DRN11749562property insured. By leaving the property insecure, arguably Miss W didnt  take all 
reasonable care. But I dont think it would be fair to apply that to this situation. Miss W had to 
leave the property because her ex-partner was being violent. She did report  the incident  to 
AXA who did send someone  out the next day to secure  the property.
But AXA has also declined the claim because Miss W didnt report the stolen items to the 
police. As far as I can see that is still the case. Under the policy it says You  should: 
Urgently inform the Police and obtain  a crime or lost property  reference number if property is 
lost or stolen  or theft or malicious  damage  is suspected. 
There is a good  reason  for this  it is evidence that a theft has taken place while  the incident 
is still fresh  in the memory, and there  is a possibility  of recovering stolen items. Also it is 
independent evidence. In the policy it says that AXA can refuse to deal with any part of the 
claim if the conditions in the policy  arent complied with. I think it was reasonable for AXA not 
to pay the claim for theft on this basis.
Miss W alleges that the property was left insecure because AXA failed to secure it. She 
alleges that in respect  of a previous claim under the home assistance part of the policy when  
she snapped off her key, the engineer called out damaged her door. As a result  she was 
unable to use the front door.  AXAs contractor  couldnt secure the back  door fully as it was 
her only point of access. The home assistance  part of the policy is provided by a different  
insurer. But in any event  I have seen a statement from that engineer  who described the front 
door as being  bent inwards, so changing the lock couldnt fix it fully. I think it reasonable to 
accept that  I dont  think theres any evidence that the engineer damaged the door. I also 
dont think AXA left the property insecure.
I further understand that Miss W objects  to the engineers  statement  as it said the door was 
damaged because the police raided her property. This wasnt  the case, but the engineer  was 
only relying on what was told to him by a third party who was present when he was changing 
the locks. I dont think this detracts  from his statement.
Miss W also complains  that AXA delayed in processing her claim.  It was entitled to carry out 
such investigations it felt were necessary. I note in particular it had to obtain  details from the 
police, and this did take some  time.  I understand that confirmed  that the police hadnt raided 
the property. But that doesnt mean  that AXA was wrong to get that information. There were 
also a number of discrepancies between  the police reports  and what Miss W had told it 
which AXA needed  to clarify with her.
The present  position is that AXA has maintained  its position in not paying out for the first 
theft/malicious damage claim. It has paid some of the second (October 2017) claim. I dont 
think it has unduly delayed in processing  either claim. And I think  its position  in respect of the 
first claim is reasonable. If Miss W has any evidence that she did report the stolen  items  for 
the first claim to the police at the time,  I would  ask her to produce it in response  to this 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  received my provisional decision. In particular Miss W left a voicemail to say 
she had received our letter. Our investigator attempted  to contact  her several  times  but was 
Ref: DRN11749563unsuccessful. But as she was aware of the deadline for responding Im satisfied that its 
appropriate for me to issue a final decision.
As neither party has any further comments to make Im satisfied  that my provisional findings  
were correct. They now form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1174956