K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays). He has concerns about the level 
of service he received  while attempting to resolve  his complaint following an experience he 
had in branch.
background
Following an experience while visiting a Barclays branch, Mr C contacted  Barclays to 
complain. 
Mr C initially spoke to a call handler at Barclays about his complaint and explained  he felt 
hed been racially discriminated against in branch.  The call handler and Mr C discussed the 
matter but didnt agree on the main  complaint  issues. Because of this Mr C asked to speak 
to the call handlers manager. 
Mr Cs call was passed to the call handlers manager who discussed Mr Cs concerns further  
and tried to clarify Barclays  position  on his complaint. Unhappy with how the call went and 
more specifically some of the things the call handlers manager said, Mr C complained.
Barclays considered  Mr Cs concerns and said that having listened  to the call Mr C was 
complaining about it hadnt found  any fault with the way it had been handled.
Unhappy with Barclays response Mr C referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and said he didnt think  Barclays had acted 
unfairly. He said he thought the call was dealt with reasonably in the circumstances.
Mr C disagreed with our investigator and said he still had concerns about how hed been 
treated. He made  reference to the Equality Act 2010 and said hed been  subjected to direct 
and subtle institutionalised  racism, discrimination  and racial profiling.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint.  Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise  that while Ive 
taken note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments made by both parties,  I have 
limited my response to what  I consider  to be the issues  central to this complaint.
I should first be clear that my decision deals solely with the service Mr C received while 
attempting to resolve his complaint with Barclays. I wont  comment on the issues  relating to 
Mr Cs experience in branch. These  have already been addressed  in a final decision  issued  
under a separate reference. 
I appreciate Mr C is unhappy with the experience he had when Barclays discussed his 
complaint with him over the telephone.  Specifically  I recognise Mr C feels the call was 
handled extremely poorly and () racially aggravated. 
Ref: DRN18009942Ive listened carefully  to the recording of the call and heard how it became heated in places. 
Especially when Mr C and the call handler  and later Mr C and the call handlers manager  
failed to agree with each another. There are also instances where  both parties struggled to 
freely express the point  theyre trying  to make. Because of this I dont think  its surprising the 
call wasnt an entirely pleasant experience for those involved.
Mr C clearly feels strongly that the call handler and manager he spoke to subjected him to 
racism and discrimination. While I have sympathy  for Mr C Im afraid I havent seen or heard 
anything which supports this. 
I dont think the call handler and manager  were wilfully trying  to be difficult, rude or unhelpful. 
Indeed it seems to me they were trying to explain Barclays position on the concerns Mr C 
had raised and offer empathy. I dont think the call handlers and managers  responses and 
actions were inappropriate in the circumstances.  Its simply unfortunate the matter couldnt 
be resolved over the telephone. 
I accept that in the circumstances  Mr C doesnt  think it was appropriate for the manager he 
spoke to to make reference to his own ethnicity and personal experiences when discussing 
Mr Cs feelings about what  happened in branch. But having listened  to the call I think  this 
was a genuine attempt by the manager to express a level of compassion and understanding  
for the points Mr C was trying to make. I dont think the manager was in any way trying to 
undermine or belittle what Mr C was saying. Given the nature of the call I think  the manager 
was perhaps trying  to find common ground  with Mr C in an effort to move  things forward. I 
can understand Mr C may have  felt the managers comments were inappropriate or perhaps  
insensitive but I dont  think this was in any way the managers intention. 
Mr C has said his call with Barclays caused  him extreme extensive emotional distress . Im 
very sorry to hear of how Mr C felt following his call with Barclays.  And while I dont doubt his 
recollection of the experience and certainly  do have sympathy for him, Im unable to 
conclude based  on the available evidence that Barclays did something wrong  to cause this.
I realise Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.  But regarding the central issue  of the 
complaint, I havent  found Barclays has acted unreasonably or done anything wrong in the 
way hes suggested.
Id like to reassure Mr C that while I havent found in his favour I have  taken his concerns 
very seriously. No one should be made to feel singled  out or discriminated  against because 
of their race or ethnicity. But based on what Ive seen and heard, there just isnt enough  for 
me to safely  conclude Mr C has been treated less favourably by Barclays on account of his 
race.
I appreciate Mr C may have been  upset following his call with Barclays  by the way in which  
he felt he was treated.  But I have  to consider that people can subjectively misconstrue the 
actions and intent  of others.  And looking at what happened here objectively,  I dont  think  
there are strong enough ground  to say Barclays did anything wrong.
I dont doubt Mr Cs strength of feeling  or sincerity in referring his complaint  to this service.  
But for the reasons Ive explained  I wont be upholding  his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN18009943Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1800994