K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains that American Express Services Europe Limited acted irresponsibly in 
allowing him to run up debt and failed to tell him he was in breach of the terms and 
conditions of his account.
background
Mr Y held a charge card with Amex.  The balance  on the account  had to be settled in full at 
the end of each month.
Mr Y says that in 2016 he accrued debt on the account which  he wasnt able to repay. At the 
time he had a business which used  PayPal to take payments, so he used  the PayPal 
account to pay the Amex  card. Mr Y says he knew this was a breach of the terms and 
conditions of his Amex account but says he was allowed to make  similar  transactions over a 
period of approximately 2 years.
In August  2018  Amex gave Mr Y 2 months notice  that it was cancelling  his account because 
he had breached the terms  and conditions. 
Mr Y says he accepts some responsibility for the situation but feels that Amex  is also 
responsible for allowing  his account  to spiral  out of control. He says he was forced  to take 
out loans and borrow from his family to repay the Amex debt.
Mr Y complained to this service. He wants his account reinstated and compensation.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Mr Y had made  Amex  aware  of his financial 
difficulties in August  2018 and that Amex should have responded by looking into how Mr Y 
was going to pay the balance. She recommended that Amex pay compensation of £250 to 
Mr Y.
Amex didnt agree. It said the decision to close Mr Ys account  had already  been taken 
before he told it he was experiencing financial difficulties. It said that when Mr Y told it about  
his financial position  it contacted him to discuss the situation, at which  point Mr Y told it he 
would be able to pay the balance by October  2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y feels  that Amex lent to him irresponsibly because it didnt question his spending  
patterns or why his balance increased.
Ive looked at Mr Ys account history from October 2017 to September  2018 and I can see 
that Mr Y had a significant balance. But its also apparent that Mr Y paid off the balance each 
month. Mr Y has never missed a payment. So from Amexs perspective,  Mr Y was managing 
his account well.
I can see that Amex reviewed Mr Ys account in January  2018  because of the level of 
PayPal charges. At this time, Amex didnt find a link between the PayPal account and Mr Ys 
account. And despite the PayPal charges, Mr Y was managing the account  well.
Ref: DRN13638062Amex kept Mr Ys account under  review and in August 2018 managed to establish a link 
between the PayPal account  and Mr Ys account. It was at this point that Amex took the 
decision to cancel the account  because  Mr Y had breached the terms and conditions.
Looking at the overall conduct of the account and taking  into account the fact that Amex  
didnt discover a link until August  2018, I dont think Amex acted irresponsibly in allowing Mr 
Y to use the account. As Ive already said, Mr Y was managing the account well and paying 
the balance each month. Although Mr Y has said he was experiencing financial difficulties at 
this time, I cant find anything to suggest  that he told Amex  about his financial difficulties until 
August 2018.
Mr Y has said that Amex should have queried  the level of spending on his account. I can see 
that Amex did raise queries in March 2018. It asked Mr Y about his level of spending and Mr 
Y told Amex  it was as a result of business use, including  buying  stock. I think Amex  was 
entitled to rely on this information.
From the information available, Im satisfied Amex wasnt aware of the link with the PayPal 
account until August  2018. I dont think Amex acted  unreasonably in closing the account at 
this point.
Mr Y has said he was forced to take out loans to pay his Amex  account. With this in mind, 
Ive looked at how Amex responded when Mr Y advised it about his financial  difficulties.  Mr Y 
says that he told Amex about his financial difficulties during a telephone conversation  on 10 
August 2018,  when  Amex called him to discuss the closure of his account. I can also see 
that Mr Y referred to his financial difficulties when he wrote  to Amex on 15 August 2018  
enclosing his bank  statements.
When a consumer gets into financial difficulties, a business should treat them in a positive 
and sympathetic way, in line with the relevant guidance. So when Mr Y told Amex about  his 
financial difficulties I think it would have  been  reasonable for Amex to contact Mr Y to try to 
understand the situation and see what could be done to address payment of the balance,  
which at that stage was approximately  £13,000.
Mr Y has said that Amex refused to offer him a repayment schedule and simply told him it 
expected him to meet his obligations. Amex denies  this and says it called Mr Y to discuss  
payment options  on 22 August 2018.
Unfortunately the call recording is no longer available so I cant be certain of what was 
discussed. Amex  has said that Mr Y said he would be able to settle the account  by October 
2018, so other options werent  discussed,  but that these options would have been available.
I can see Mr Y paid £8,500 in August  2018 and a further £5000 at the beginning  of 
September 2018. He says he borrowed money  from his family in order to do this.
Taking all of the available information  into account,  I dont think Mr Y was in a position to pay 
the balance in August 2018. This would have been apparent from his bank statements. I 
think Amex should  have discussed  alternative  options with Mr Y even though he said he 
would settle the account by the end of October  2018. Im satisfied that had other options 
been discussed with Mr Y, he would have opted  for a payment plan rather  than borrow  
money from his family. Mr Ys actions in settling  the account soon after he discussed his 
financial situation with Amex is consistent  with his testimony that he had been asked by 
Ref: DRN13638063Amex to meet his obligations. Im satisfied  that Mr Y borrowed money  to pay the account 
because he was in a panic and didnt  think he had any other options to deal with the 
balance.
Taking all the circumstances of the complaint into account, I think Amex should  have  done  
more to help Mr Y when  he told them about his financial  difficulties.  Amex  should have 
investigated all options for dealing with the balance and discussed these with Mr Y. I dont  
think Amex responded  positively  or sympathetically. Therefore, I think  Amex should pay 
compensation to Mr Y for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  American Express Services  Europe Limited 
should pay compensation of £250  to Mr Y.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1363806