K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Mrs W says Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Halifax had to make  it clear to Mrs W that she had a choice about it. 
But Mrs W says it wasnt made clear  the PPI was optional.
Halifax has sent us a copy of Mrs Ws application  form for the credit  card.  This included  a 
box to be crossed if Mrs W wanted  to take out PPI. And there is a cross in the box.
The details on the application form, including the cross in the box for PPI, were pre-printed  
which suggests there was some  conversation  between Mrs W and Halifax before the form 
was printed out. Based on the evidence I have here, and what  I understand about Halifaxs  
sales practices at the time, I think its likely that Halifax made it clear in this conversation that 
Mrs W had a choice about the PPI.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check that it was right for her. And, 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
she doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than shes  told us she wouldve received 
full sick pay.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, for the same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like the PPI would have 
been useful for Mrs W if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Mrs W off taking it out.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs W paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mrs W back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs W now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN17537462my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2019
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1753746