K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) repairer caused further damage to 
her car. Mrs S made a claim for repairs under her car insurance policy.
background
Mrs S made a claim to her insurer, UKI following  an incident. It arranged for her car to be 
repaired by an approved repairer. The repairs took longer than the agreed seven days. But 
UKI compensated Mrs S for the additional  days in line with the terms of the policy.
Mrs S complained that the approved repairer caused scratch  damage all over her car while 
in their care. 
UKI instructed an engineer to inspect Mrs Ss car. He said the scratches were very minor  
and pre existing. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the engineers findings. She said UKI told her it would instruct  an 
independent engineer  but it didnt do this. 
Our investigator thought UKI had dealt with Mrs Ss complaint reasonably. It hadnt told 
Mrs S the engineer  would  be independent. The engineer  had explained his findings.  There 
wasnt enough for the investigator to recommend Mrs Ss complaint be upheld.  
Mrs S didnt agree. She said the photos taken on collection  of her car dont show  the 
scratches. So she wants an ombudsman  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all of the photos provided.  Im unable to see that the first set of photos show  no 
light scratches as Mrs S describes. Although Mrs S said her car was in immaculate 
condition, it did have  areas of pre existing damage. A dent and some  scratches to the car 
and alloys  were recorded by the collection agent  which Mrs S agreed.  But Mrs S said her car 
 apart  from the bonnet  was resprayed  in 2017. So she said it wasnt possible for her car 
to have light scratches due to wear and tear for a car of its age. She believes the approved 
repairer caused damage all over her car.
However, the engineer didnt agree. He provided  a detailed report and several photos of the 
areas of damage  Mrs S reported  as new. He concluded that many of the scratches  were  so 
minor he found it difficult to photograph  them as they didnt show  and so he didnt think  
they would  have been picked up on the collection sheet or in the first set of photos. 
The engineer reported that in his view the approved repairer didnt cause the damage Mrs S 
identified. He gave  plausible reasons as to the more likely causes. This reasoning led him to 
conclude that the minor  scratches  were already there.
I understand Mrs S doesnt agree with the engineers findings. But taking everything into 
account, I think UKIs decision not to consider the new damage  Mrs S claimed for was 
reasonable. 
Ref: DRN11359512It instructed  an engineer  to inspect Mrs Ss car, which I think was the right thing to do. I 
havent seen enough to persuade me that the engineers report and his supporting evidence 
are wrong. So I think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to rely on it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1135951