K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 to 
protect a loan. Mrs M says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her loan. There is limited information available from the time this policy  was sold 
and I cant know for certain what was discussed when Mrs M applied  for her loan and PPI. 
But from what I know about how Barclays sold this type of policy  at the time I think its most 
likely that Barclays made  it clear Mrs M didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
Barclays has told us it recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her. Mrs M has told us she was entitled to sick pay when she applied  for the PPI and 
could have relied on her partner to help make the repayments if she wasnt  able to. But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mrs Ms sick pay, and for longer. And while  Mrs Ms 
partner would have  wanted to help their ability to would have been dependent  on their 
circumstances at the time, which could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, she wasnt  affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Mrs M has told us she has had other  complaints about PPI upheld  in the past,  but each 
complaint is considered on its own merits and the outcome  of another  complaint would not 
affect the outcome of this one.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2019.  
Ref: DRN13902422Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1390242