K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the sale of his home  contents  insurance policy  by Lloyds Bank  
General Insurance Limited (trading as Halifax). 
background
Mr C lost his hearing aid when he was on a trip in the UK. He wanted to claim on his home 
contents insurance policy, so he phoned  the insurer and was told he would be covered 
under his policy. But his claim went on to be declined. His insurer  said he wasnt covered for 
the loss under the terms and conditions  of his policy.
Mr Cs insurer  apologised  for giving  Mr C the wrong  information on the phone,  and sent him 
a cheque for £25 for the inconvenience caused.  But Mr C remained  unhappy.  He thinks  the 
insurer shouldve covered him in the circumstances.  Mr C told us hed relied  on the key 
facts document  when he bought the policy online. Having read this, he thought  his hearing 
aid would  be covered. He thinks that the online sales process was misleading.
Our investigator said the key facts document is only a summary  document. He said that 
insurer had made  this clear, and told customers that they needed to look at the policy  terms 
and conditions of the policy. The actual terms and conditions  of the policy  were  available  to 
Mr C. 
Our investigator told Mr C that as part of his investigation he went through the online sales 
process himself, and looked at screenshots of the process Mr C went  through  to buy the 
policy. Our investigator said that Mr C was specifically asked whether he wanted cover for 
specific belongings away from the home.  He highlighted the amount  of information that was 
available to Mr C on the screen, including the following:
Personal Belongings Cover is for items  worth  £3,000 or less.
Personal Belongings are items  you wear,  use or carry  that you want to cover  whilst
temporarily away from the home
These items will not be covered unless you add Personal Belongings Cover. [my 
emphasis]
But Mr C selected "no cover". Our investigator  thought if covering his hearing aid was 
important to him, Mr C wouldve selected  cover  for it. So our investigator wasnt persuaded 
that Mr C wanted cover  for personal  belongings outside his home when he got the policy. 
Mr C remained  unhappy so he asked  his case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Recently 
he has told us he wants £150 to resolve  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions our investigator has reached  for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr C was incorrectly told that he would be covered for his hearing  
aid when he phoned  Halifax to report the loss. I understand Mr Cs frustration about this, but 
Ref: DRN19412732my role isnt to punish businesses for every mistake they make. Here they offered an 
apology and sent Mr C a cheque for £25. I think this was fair and reasonable.
Mr C has also said that he thinks the online sales process he used to buy his insurance 
policy was misleading  because the key facts document didnt make it clear  that only 
specified items would  be covered when they were temporarily moved  from his home.  He 
says he relied on the key facts document alone, so he thought  his hearing aid was 
covered. In the circumstances, Mr C thinks the insurer should  cover him for his hearing aid.
I understand the argument Mr C has made,  but Im afraid I disagree. As our investigator 
said, the key facts  document was only a summary  document. The contractual terms of the 
policy were covered by the terms and conditions, and they are clear  that Mr C wasnt 
covered for his hearing  aid when he lost it on a trip away from his home. The actual terms 
and conditions of the policy were available  to Mr C.
Ive also considered the online sales process  Mr C went through,  the information available  to 
Mr C on screen,  and the specific questions Mr C was asked when he got the policy. I can 
see that when  Mr C was asked whether he wanted cover for specific  belongings away  from 
the home he selected "no cover". I think that was a clear and unambiguous question. So if 
Mr C had wanted to purchase cover  for his hearing  aid, he wouldve  answered this question  
differently. I dont think the sales process  was misleading.
Taking the matter  as a whole, I understand why the insurer hasnt reimbursed Mr C for his 
hearing aid.
Finally, I should say that I can see that Mr C had asked for a hearing.  I understand why he 
would like to make his points to me directly, but Ive considered the information  we have on 
file about the issues,  and understand  the arguments  that have been  made.  In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  a hearing is appropriate  in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Laura Forster
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1941273