K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that a representative of Openwork Limited misled  him about whether a claim 
would be payable under  his term assurance  with critical illness  cover  policy.
Background
Mr M took out a Lifestyle  plan in 2002  which provided a benefit of £50,000 in the event of his 
death or being diagnosed with a critical illness. The policy had an initial  term of 15 years but 
could be renewed.  The policy  was sold by an adviser, Mr C, who at the time was a 
representative of another  business Ill refer to as Z, which  is also the insurer.  Mr C became 
a representative  of Openwork in 2005.
In 2016 Mr M discussed his policy with Mr C as hed been  diagnosed with a heart  condition  
and would require  surgery in the future.  Mr M says he was led to believe hed be able to 
make a claim for critical illness benefit  under the policy. In March  2017 Mr M renewed  his 
policy for an extra 10 years.
Mr M says he contacted Mr C in September 2017  to confirm he would be undergoing surgery 
within the next six months,  although  he wasnt certain of the procedure  hed be having. Mr M 
says he was given  the same  assurance  that both procedures mentioned would be covered.  
Mr Ms surgery was scheduled for February 2018  and he had further  contact with Mr C about 
making a claim in the lead up to it. However,  Z later informed Mr M that the procedure he 
was having wasnt  actually covered by the Essential plan hed taken out. Instead, the 
procedure was covered under the Premier  plan, but Mr M had decided against taking this 
cover when the policies were sold in 2002.
After recovering from the surgery,  Mr M complained to Openwork about the information 
provided by Mr C about the policy  and his ability to claim. Mr M also alleged that Mr C had 
told his surgeon to falsify  his report in order to get Z to pay the claim.
Openwork didnt agree Mr C had done anything  wrong. It said it was clear Mr C had tried to 
help Mr M to make the claim. But it didnt think there was any evidence  to show hed misled 
Mr M about whether  the claim would be paid out. Openwork also said there  was no evidence  
to substantiate  the allegation Mr M had made about Mr C asking  his surgeon to falsify  his 
report to Z.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service.  He says Mr C told him on three occasions his 
claim would be covered and maintained Mr C had tried to persuade his surgeon to falsify the 
report sent to Z. Mr M added that he relied on what he was told about his surgery  being 
covered and so had suffered financially as a result.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He noted Z had accepted  it provided  the wrong 
information to Mr C in January  2018. He didnt  think  he could hold Openwork responsible for 
Zs mistake.  The investigator said he hadnt  seen any evidence to show  Mr C had tried to 
influence the report the surgeon  provided to Z. 
Mr M didnt  accept this and later provided some comments from his surgeon.  But as this 
didnt change the investigators  opinion,  the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN12637702My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Mr M underwent an aortic  root dissection  and aortic valve  replacement  in February 2018. 
Neither of these procedures are covered  under the Essential plan. For this reason, Z 
declined the claim  for critical  illness benefit. However, it was possible Mr M would also need 
coronary artery bypass  surgery   a condition covered under the Essential plan. It couldnt be 
known whether or not Mr M would  need  this procedure until the surgery took place  Mr Ms 
surgeon decided  this wasnt necessary.
Z has provided records of the conversations  Mr C had with it about Mr Ms claim.  This 
includes several conversations  in February  2016,  a further conversation  in September  2017 
and another conversation on 31 January 2018.  Openwork  was unable to provide any call 
recordings or notes of the conversations that took place between  Mr C and Mr M or Z. So, 
Ive had to rely on the available evidence.
According to Zs records, in February 2016  Mr M told Mr C he had an aneurysm and would  
need an aortic root dissection and potential  coronary artery bypass surgery.  Mr C then 
phoned Z to ask whether Mr M would  be covered  for an aortic aneurysm. Z called him back  
the following  day to discuss this. Mr C was told that an aortic  aneurysm wasnt one of the 
listed conditions. Mr C asked for the policy terms and conditions to be sent over and asked Z 
to call him back a few days later. Z called  Mr C as arranged to go through  the conditions  
covered by the policy. Z says Mr C told it Mr M would be having open heart surgery, to which  
Z responded that the policy covered coronary artery surgery. Z says Mr C said he felt Mr M 
would qualify for this. However, Z didnt confirm whether or not a claim would be successful 
as it didnt know the precise procedure Mr M would be undergoing.
Based on the final conversation noted  above, I think its possible  that Mr C told Mr M his 
claim for coronary artery surgery would be covered. But I dont think that was necessarily 
unreasonable. At that stage, it wasnt known  what actual procedure Mr M would be 
undergoing and if he did require coronary artery  surgery, he would be able to claim for this. 
I havent seen  any evidence to show that Mr C confirmed that Mr Ms aortic  aneurysm and 
the aortic  root dissection  would be covered.
The conversation Mr C had with Z in September 2017 appears to have  followed a 
conversation he had with Mr M. Mr M had confirmed to Mr C that hed be having an aortic 
root dissection and aortic valve replacement, and possibly coronary artery bypass surgery  
within six months. Zs record of this conversation shows Mr C couldnt give the precise  
details of the procedures Mr M was having,  so Z sent him another set of the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mr M says Mr C reassured  him the procedures he would be undergoing were covered  at this 
point and that he made plans based on this advice.  But it doesnt appear  Z told Mr C 
anything different to what it had told him in 2016.  I cant know what Mr C told Mr M  its 
possible he repeated  his earlier advice that the coronary artery  surgery  would be covered. 
But I havent seen  enough evidence to persuade  me that Mr C told Mr M his claim would be 
covered, regardless  of the procedures Mr M underwent. I dont doubt that Mr M was of the 
belief he would be able to claim the critical illness benefit, and that he made  financial plans 
based on this. But I dont think I can reasonably hold Openwork responsible for any 
misunderstanding at this stage.
Ref: DRN12637703Im also mindful that Mr M was in possession of the policy terms and conditions and couldve 
made enquiries with Z himself. Mr C sold Mr M the policy  whilst he was a representative  of 
Z, but he had no other connection with Z. By communicating through Mr C, there  was always  
a possibility that there could be a miscommunication, particularly as it wasnt known  for 
certain the procedures  Mr M would  be undergoing.  Furthermore, only Z could provide 
assurance of whether  or not it would accept a claim.  So, if Mr M wanted a definitive answer, 
he could have made enquiries with Z himself.
Z accepts it made  a mistake in the call that took place on 31 January 2018. In this call, it 
read out the definition of aorta graft surgery, which wasnt a procedure  covered under Mr Ms 
Essential plan. However, the Z representative still didnt confirm whether a claim would be 
paid. Z paid Mr M compensation for the impact  of this mistake  I dont think Openwork 
needs to do anything to put things right here as it wasnt responsible for the mistake.
Mr M says Mr C tried to persuade his surgeon  to falsify the report  he sent to Z. Hes provided 
some comments from the surgeon to support this. But having read these comments I dont 
think they show Mr C asked the surgeon to mislead  Z. Instead, it seems  to me that Mr C 
asked the surgeon  to provide as much information  as possible about Mr Ms heart problems 
to see if this made a difference. The surgeon  also said he didnt remember Mr C pushing  him 
to provide any false information.  So, I dont  think Mr C acted unreasonably here, instead it 
seems to me he was acting in Mr Ms best interest to try and secure the best possible 
outcome for him.
Overall, Im not persuaded by the available evidence that Mr C misled  Mr M about his claim 
for critical  illness benefit being paid.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1263770