K820x#14complaint
Miss G1 and Miss G2 are unhappy  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined 
a claim under their home insurance  policy for a leak from a water tank in their attic.
background
In March 2018 Miss G1 and Miss G2 made  a claim to Lloyds after a water  leak caused  
much damage to their property.
When Lloyds investigated, it said it didnt look as though the property was occupied.  It 
asked for a copy of the utility bills. When it reviewed these, it said the gas and electricity  
bills didnt  show normal usage  for an occupied property. So it declined the claim on the 
basis that it hadnt been told that the property wasnt occupied.  Lloyds  said that was a 
breach of a condition  of the policy. It said if it had known that the property  wasnt going to 
be occupied for 60 days  in a row, it would have applied a special condition that the water, 
gas and electricity supplies should be turned off at the mains and during the period 1 
November to 31 March  the water  system  (excluding  the central heating system) should  
be drained.
Miss G1 and Miss G2 disputed that their property wasnt lived in. They said there were 
personal items in the bathroom and in suitcases in the bedrooms. They said electricity  
and water had been  turned off at the property while building work was being  carried  out. 
They explained that their parents lived next door and they could use some  of their 
facilities.
Miss G1 and Miss G2 brought  their complaint to this service. Our investigator  didnt  
uphold the complaint. He thought the information provided, in particular utility bills, 
suggested that the property hadnt  been  occupied for 30 days  in a row at the time of the 
incident. 
As the consumers didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its a condition of the policy that Lloyds must be told about any change in circumstances, 
including if the property becomes unoccupied  for more than 30 days in a row. By way of 
explanation it said:
Please  note, a property will only be considered occupied if it is lived in by you or a 
member of your family and contains  essential  items  for normal living  purposes, for 
example cooking  appliances, sanitary fittings  and beds.
Lloyds said breach of this condition might mean a claim wouldnt be paid or it might apply 
different terms to the policy  from the date of the change to take the change into account.
I think that any question  about the property not being occupied relates to the period 
between the start of the policy (14 December  2017)  to when the damage giving rise to 
the claim occurred. The latter  was on or about 4 March 2018. 
Ref: DRN18576272Lloyds sent a drying company to inspect the damage.  Its representative visited  the 
property five days after the damage  was discovered. He reported  that the property was 
in the process  of being refurbished and wasnt occupied. He said hed been  told work 
had started at the beginning  of 2018. He also said Miss G1 and Miss G2 had only 
minimal contents stored  there.  The photos  that Ive seen  support this.
There were beds made up in the property, various  items of furniture, ornaments and 
dishes. But it seems  to be accepted  that most of the items  belonged  to the previous 
elderly owners of the property. In the various photos  taken by Lloyds representative  I 
havent seen anything such as personal  belongings or food in the cupboards.  I 
appreciate that according to the consumers there  were  some personal items in the 
bathroom and also in suitcases in the wardrobe.  But the overwhelming impression I have 
from looking at the photos is that no-one  was actually  living  there at the relevant time. 
If someone is living at a property during winter months,  Id expect the property to be 
connected to the usual  utilities.  In this case the electricity and water  had both been 
disconnected because of the refurbishment works. The consumers explained  that the 
property is next to their parents home and so they can use their facilities. 
All in all I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to draw the conclusion  from this that its 
most likely Miss G and Miss G hadnt been  living in the property for at least  30 days 
when the damage  happened.
So whilst I have every  sympathy  for the situation Miss G1 and Miss G2 find themselves 
in, I think it can fairly be said that they should  have  told Lloyds that the property would be 
unoccupied for more  than 30 days. I understand that if it had been  told, Lloyds would 
have put a special condition on the policy (as Ive set out in the background above) whilst 
the home was unoccupied. Its entitled to do this. In my opinion it was reasonable for 
Lloyds retrospectively  to apply the special condition about draining the water system. 
The damage happened in March and based on when the building work started  and the 
unfinished state of the property, it seems likely that the property would have been 
unoccupied for 60 days  in a row. So I think Lloyds  acted fairly in declining the claim 
because Miss G1 and Miss G2 were in breach of this condition.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G1 and 
Miss G2 to accept or reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1857627