K820x#14complaint
Miss S complained because Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. declined part of her travel insurance claim.
background
Miss S held a travel insurance policy to cover her whilst she was abroad  skiing.  The policy  
provided cover if she had to cut short her trip because of an injury she suffered:
If you have  to cancel or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons listed below1 we 
will pay  for:
 Unused  travel and accommodation  expenses that you have paid or have agreed to pay 
under a contract and which you cannot  get back, including  any local prepaid  excursions,  
tours or activities.
Extra premium was paid to provide cover for a ski instructor course. Miss Ss parents 
business initially paid for the course.  Miss Ss parents  then reimbursed the business. They in 
turn had an informal agreement with Miss S in which she would reimburse  them.
A few days  into the holiday  Miss S had an accident and dislocated her shoulder. The 
severity of the injury  meant that she was unable to continue with the course.
Miss S claimed under the policy for the cost of the course that she was unable to attend. 
Mapfre was satisfied the course was a local prepaid  activity. But the policy only covered 
Miss S for something she had paid for. As she hadnt paid for the course,  and hadnt 
therefore suffered  any loss (it was her parents  who had paid for the course and had suffered  
the loss),  Mapfre declined  the claim.
Regarding the payment arrangements, Mrs S (Miss Ss mother,  who is handling the matter  
on Miss Ss behalf) told us it was an informal agreement whereby she and Mr S paid for the 
course and Miss S would pay them back once she got a job. But as Miss S was unable  to 
complete the course she couldnt  get the work that was needed in order to earn the money  
to repay  the loan.  Mrs S said Miss S will repay the money when she gets a job.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I wasnt minded to uphold  the complaint. 
The relevant  points of my provisional decision are repeated below.
policy cover
The policy said cover  was provided  for the cost of any unused travel expenses  that 
Miss S had paid.  I thought that was reasonable given that Miss S was the policyholder 
and insurance  is designed to cover  losses suffered by the policyholder. It was also clear 
that Miss S hadnt paid for the ski instructor course. She might eventually have paid for 
the course, but that wasnt what had actually  happened.
Regarding the verbal contract, the policy did cover the cost of unused activities that 
Miss S had agreed  to pay under a contract which she couldnt now get back.  I wasnt  
1 One of the reasons listed was Miss S getting injured
Ref: DRN18598842persuaded that meant Mapfre should have settled the claim. In my view, the you have 
agreed to pay under  a contract part of the policy term covered situations  where  a 
policyholder had booked a hotel,  excursion,  activity etc but hadnt pre-paid it  they were 
instead contracted to pay it to the relevant  business upon arrival or at the start of the 
excursion/activity. But that wasnt what  happened here because it seemed the course 
needed paying for in advance.
For those reasons, I concluded  that Mapfre treated Miss S fairly when it declined  to pay 
for the cost of the course.
Mrs S told us that if it would help arrangements  could be made where Miss S repaid, or 
started to repay, the loan. Mapfre  had said that if it was to consider the claim further  it 
would need to see evidence that Miss S had repaid Mr and Mrs S the amount in question 
in full, or at least that shed been  making  regular repayments over a sustained  period of 
time. That suggested to me that Mapfre was willing to look at the matter  further  if the 
situation changed.
sale of the policy
Mrs S said that when the policy was sold she asked  whether the course would be 
covered and Mapfre confirmed it would be. She also said Mapfre  never told her that was 
dependent on Miss S paying  for the course. She said if shed known this Miss S would 
have paid the fees herself.
I listened to recordings of two conversations Mrs S had when she was buying  the policy. 
In the first call Mrs S specifically  asked  if the policy would cover the fees for the course  if 
Miss S broke her leg on day two of the holiday.  The agent confirmed the cost of the 
course would  be covered as it would be classed as an activity. In the second call (when  
Mrs S actually  bought  the policy) there was no discussion at all about whether or not the 
cost of the course would be covered.
So I thought  Mrs Ss recollection was correct as it was confirmed to her that the policy  
covered the cost of the course; and she wasnt told that was dependent  on Miss S 
paying for the course. But I didnt think that was necessarily misleading information or 
that it meant the policy was mis-sold. The policy did cover the cost of the course, so the 
information given  in that respect was correct.  I didnt think  the agent needed to go further  
and clarify that was subject to Miss S paying  for it. As insurance policies are designed  to 
cover a policyholders  loss, I thought  it was appropriate for the agent  to assume during 
the conversation  that any losses suffered would have been Miss Ss.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs S didnt accept my decision.  She said there is a repayment schedule  in place from 
Miss S which showed that the verbal agreement to loan her the money  still stood, which in 
turn showed  that the cost of the course  fees was Miss Ss.
I havent heard anything  further from Mapfre.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN18598843I said in my provisional decision that I decide complaints based on the facts of what  actually 
happened  as opposed to what might have happened had the circumstances had been
Different, or on what might  happen in the future.
I havent seen  anything in our file about the existence of a repayment schedule prior to 
Mrs Ss reply to my provisional decision. But I wouldnt consider  it evidence  of Miss S 
suffering any actual, rather than potential, loss anyway.  This is because it remains  that when 
Miss S made the claim to Mapfre  she hadnt suffered any actual loss as she hadnt paid 
anything for the course. That was the same position  when the complaint was brought to us  
evidenced by Mrs S telling us that arrangements could be made for Miss S to start repaying  
the loan. The existence of any repayment  schedule doesnt in my view change that.
So it remains my conclusion that Mapfre treated Miss S fairly when it declined to pay for the 
cost of the course. Thats because the policy only covered losses that Miss S suffered, and 
she hasnt suffered a loss.
If things have now changed and Miss S has started to repay, or has repaid, the loan then 
she needs to go back to Mapfre so it can reconsider the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1859884