K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the reduction in the final (terminal) bonus rates  applying  to her 
pension with Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited. Her financial advisor brings the complaint on 
her behalf.
background
Mrs S has two pension policies with Aviva  that invest in the with-profits  fund.  Her financial 
advisor obtained transfer values for them through 2017 and in early 2018. And these showed 
the values had reduced significantly over that time. Mrs Ss advisor questioned why this was. 
Aviva said the final bonus  rates are regularly reviewed, are not guaranteed  and may change 
at any time. It said the final bonus could be seen as a balancing addition that reflects the 
difference between  the guaranteed benefits and the underlying  performance, subject to 
smoothing. Smoothing  is the process  it uses to ensure each its policyholders receive  an 
equal share of the returns achieved by the fund while it has been invested.
Mrs S complained that the reduction in the final bonus would have an impact  on the value of 
her pension fund and the pension income  she could expect to receive.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. Aviva  
had set out the details of the final bonus  rate applying to each of Mrs Ss policies and the 
investigator thought  it had given Mrs S an adequate explanation about  them.  She said the 
final bonus was calculated according to a number of factors  and current investment 
performance couldnt be relied  on as an indicator of what the final bonus  rate would be, as it 
wasnt guaranteed.  The investigator  didnt think Aviva had done  anything wrong, or had 
unfairly calculated  the final bonus  rates for Mrs S. 
Mrs S and her advisor didnt accept the investigators findings.  They  said the reasoning 
behind the reduction in the final bonus  rates needed  more explanation. They said it seemed 
Aviva had simply made a commercial decision to drastically reduce the final bonus rate, 
without any explanation of the actual fund performance of the policy  over the specific time 
period it had been in force. They felt this was unjustified.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how it will have  been a concern to Mrs S to see that the projected  values of her 
pension policies have  reduced in a relatively short amount of time, particularly as she will 
understandably have been  looking at these with a view to planning for her level of income in 
retirement. And I do appreciate why Mr S and her advisor have  looked  to seek clarification  
from Aviva  about why this is.
Avivas with-profits  fund operates by allocating guaranteed and non-guaranteed bonuses  to 
policies. And when making decisions  on what level of bonuses  to apply to policies (including 
whether to apply  any bonus); it takes  into account  a number of issues.  These  can include the 
performance of the assets in the fund; bonuses already declared; benefits that have been 
paid and need to be paid in the future; the insurers costs of running the business; historical 
investment returns and anticipated  future investment returns. So there are a number of 
Ref: DRN12297492factors that a with-profits provider such as Aviva needs to take into account deciding  what  
bonuses it can allocate to policies.
Bonuses arent guaranteed and can change. Non-guaranteed final bonuses can be reduced 
at any point. So the overall with-profits policy value  can change  as a result  of how bonuses 
are applied. And this will depend  on the factors Ive summarised above.  
A with-profits provider such as Aviva has a wide discretion as to what bonus rates  it applies 
to policies. And it is a matter of commercial judgement on its part as to how it manages  its 
with-profits fund and what level of bonus it applies. 
But Aviva does have  to explain via its Principles and Practices of Financial Management 
document (PPFM) how it approaches with-profits investment. And the Financial  Conduct  
Authority (FCA) sets out principles and rules  as to how businesses such  as Aviva  should 
manage its with-profits fund and apply bonuses. And Ive not seen any evidence  that Aviva  
has mismanaged its with-profits fund. 
So, although  I can understand Mrs Ss disappointment with the reduction in the values shes  
been given when compared  with past valuations, I dont think Aviva  has acted unfairly or 
inappropriately, when  the setting of the final bonus  is a matter of Avivas  commercial 
discretion.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1229749