K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Virgin Money  plc temporarily blocked his credit  card,  causing  him 
embarrassment, and that it didnt contact  him immediately about this. As a result he was 
unable to spend on the card for a couple  of days,  which he says prevented him from earning 
air miles  under an introductory reward offer.
background
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month explaining that I didnt intend to uphold 
Mr Ls complaint. An extract of that provisional  decision is set out below.
On 27 July 2018 Virgin declined a transaction on Mr Ls card as it wanted  to verify it as 
genuine. It also placed a temporary  block on his card preventing further transactions. Virgin 
didnt contact Mr L at that point to inform him his card had been  blocked.
Mr L says he tried to use his card again on 28 July 2018 but transactions were declined.  
Mr L says he was still unaware at that point that the card had been blocked  by Virgin.
On 29 July 2018 Virgin attempted to call Mr L to verify the transaction that had led to the 
block. As it was unable to reach him it left a voicemail message and sent him an email.
Mr L called  Virgin back on 30 July 2018  and the block  was removed. Mr L raised a complaint 
at that point as he was unhappy that Virgin  hadnt  gotten in touch with him sooner. Virgin  
said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr L then asked our service  to look into the 
complaint. In addition  to being unhappy  with the block being in place  and the lack of 
communication he also mentioned that the block had prevented him making  transactions  
within his statement period. As a result he hadnt  spent  enough  - he says he needed  to 
spend £1,000 per month for three  months  - to qualify  for an air miles incentive.
In terms of the block Virgin put on Mr Ls card,  I dont think  it has acted unreasonably. The 
terms and conditions of the account  allow Virgin to make further checks  and limit the use of 
the card if it suspects that the card could have been used without the cardholders  
permission. So I think Virgin was entitled to take the action it did.
Based on the statements weve seen, Mr L actually  spent  less than £1,000  on his card in two 
of the first three months he held the card. So I dont think the card being blocked  was the 
only reason he wouldnt  have qualified for the introductory air miles promotional offer. 
When the decision was taken to block the account  Virgin chose to contact Mr L by phone  to 
verify the transaction,  and he was added to a queue  for a call back   which took just under 
48 hours. Virgin acknowledges  that its systems, and the terms of the account,  allowed for it 
to contact Mr L by text, phone, letter or email.  And there doesnt seem  to be a set process 
regarding which method it uses. Rather  it seems that it is at Virgins discretion. So it could, 
for example by using the text option, have gotten in touch with Mr L sooner than it did. And 
this mightve avoided further transactions being declined. But it didnt have to do so and I 
think it did contact him within a reasonable time frame.
Ref: DRN13358052I also think Mr L could possibly have  done more to avoid  the transactions  being declined on 
28 July 2018  which he indicated caused the most embarrassment. When the first 
transaction was declined  on 27 July 2018, Mr L was on notice that there had been some  
issue with the card. And he couldve contacted Virgin directly to discuss  this  particularly  if 
he was going  to be reliant on the card to make further transactions. But he didnt do so. And 
even after Virgin tried to contact him he didnt call them back  until the following day  which  I 
think suggests he didnt  think  this was urgent at the time.
So overall, while I think Virgin could  have done something differently, I dont think I can 
reasonably say it had to or that it made  an error regarding how it decided  to contact Mr L. 
As a result of this, and because I think Mr L could also have done more to avoid the later 
transactions being declined, I dont think Virgin should have to compensate  Mr L.
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further  information  
before I reached a final decision.
Both Mr L and Virgin responded to my decision  saying they had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and as neither party has sent me anything else they want me to consider, 
Im not minded  to change my conclusions set out in my provisional decision. So, for the 
same reasons, I dont  think the complaint should be upheld or that itd be reasonable to ask 
Virgin to compensate Mr L. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1335805