K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (a) misreported data about him to a credit  
reference agency and then (b) took too long to correct the mistake which (c) caused Mr C 
distress, inconvenience  and financial loss.  
background
The bank has already paid Mr C £300 compensation and has offered to pay him £400  more. 
Mr C hasnt accepted  that offer as he says it doesnt compensate him fully. 
He says in particular that the misreported data caused him to have to pay a higher interest 
rate when he had to borrow  money  from another lender, to pay for property renovations.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint. She concluded the bank had paid/offered to 
pay enough compensation.  She didnt think there was enough  or indeed any  evidence 
that the misreported data had caused  Mr C to have to pay higher interest on his extra 
borrowing.
Via his representative, Mr C replied to the investigators conclusions  saying, in round terms 
and subject to one or two points of detail,  that he was content  with her findings  except  with 
regard to the higher borrowing costs. He said it was on balance  likely that the misreported 
data had meant hed had to pay higher interest. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I too have 
concluded the bank need do no more in this case.
With regard to the particular points of detail raised by Mr C, I hope I cause no offence  when I 
say I think they are secondary. What  matters most  to the ombudsman  service is to find out 
what the bank  did wrong and what effects  that had. The reason(s)  why the bank made 
mistakes may be of interest, but theyre  often not material  to the outcome of the complaint.
To take an example, it may be of interest  to know why the bank applied  a gone away 
marker, but the bank appears to have accepted it was misapplied and has compensated or 
offered to compensate Mr C for the consequences which  it thinks  flowed from the mistake.
The major remaining  point  is whether the bank should compensate  Mr C for the higher 
interest costs which hes claimed (£7,000). 
I have to say this claim is largely  unsupported and lacking in detail. The investigator asked 
Mr C to supply evidence  of his applying for lending and it being rejected or at a higher rate, 
to which  Mr C replied via his representative that he didnt have any evidence  of the kind 
requested. 
While we habitually make findings of fact on the balance of probabilities, we dont do so on 
the basis of pure speculation. There has to be some evidential  basis  for our findings. There  
would have needed to be some evidence  on which to base  a finding that the misreported 
data was the cause of Mr C having to pay higher interest of £7,000. Wed also have needed  
to be satisfied that this was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the misreporting  and 
Ref: DRN16647192that Mr C had no reasonable  alternative to paying  that particular higher interest rate. Hence  
the investigators request for evidence of Mr C applying for lending;  Mr C told us hed applied 
several times for credit.
On the basis of the evidence before me, I think a total of £700  is adequate compensation for 
what the bank  did and its effects  on Mr C. I havent  concluded the bank should pay or offer 
Mr C more.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint as Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid or offered to pay 
Mr C adequate compensation. If Mr C wishes to accept the additional £400 the bank has 
offered, in full and final settlement of the complaint, he can either let us know and we will tell 
the bank, or he can contact the bank direct. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1664719