K820x#14complaint
Ms H is unhappy with the way FCA Automotive  Services UK Ltd (FCA)  has handled a 
request she made to hand back a car shed bought using finance  it provided.
background
In May 2015  Ms H bought  a car on a hire purchase agreement  financed by FCA. She was to 
pay 36 monthly payments  of just over £108 and a final payment of £5098  before the car 
became hers.
In April 2018 Ms H enquired about  returning  the car, as her agreement  allowed. She was 
told that would be arranged after the 36th payment had been  paid  in about the second 
week of May.
A day or so before the last payment was due Ms H re-contacted FCA and said she wanted 
to return the car and was concerned it wouldnt have a valid MOT. She then found out the 
MOT had already expired.  FCA said it would only take back  the car if it was in a roadworthy 
state (that is with a valid MOT and an up to date service history) so Ms H, under protest, 
paid for both these  things  at a cost of just over £211. Shed also paid £30 road tax a little 
while earlier.
Ms H complained to FCA saying that she asked to return the car in April but hadnt been 
given the right information about  how to do that. She said if she had, she wouldnt have had 
to pay for the service  or MOT. And she said shed been misinformed about when the MOT  
was due by the dealer that sold the car in the first place.
FCA said Ms H hadnt asked about  retuning the car early  shed  made a general enquiry 
about handback. But it did acknowledge there had been some confusion, so it said it would 
refund Ms H the £211  shed paid for the MOT and service.
Ms H said shed been unnecessarily stressed and asked  for £100 compensation. FCA didnt 
agree to this so she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  think Ms Hs complaint should be upheld,  because she thought  FCA 
had already been fair when it refunded the cost of the MOT and service. She didnt think it 
should have to do more.
Ms H accepted this, but there was then a delay before FCA paid the £211.  Ms H complained  
about this and our investigator helped her to get this money. FCA said an internal error had 
stopped the payment when originally  authorised  and paid it. There  was a delay of about two 
weeks overall. Our investigator  explained  to Ms H that this delay wasnt  something this 
service is able to look at, so she couldnt  take things  any further  for Ms H.
Ms H remains unhappy  about  the way FCA has handled the entire  complaint and wants  
£100 compensation. Ive been asked to decide  this complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN19260372Ms H initially  said she would accept  our investigators assessment of what  had happened 
when she wanted  to hand back her car. In summary that was that, although  there were  some 
problems, FCA had been fair when it said it would refund the cost of an MOT  and service 
that Ms H had paid for.
The delay in paying the refund has prompted  Ms H to ask for her complaint to be re-
assessed. Weve  already  told Ms H we cant look at this for Ms H, as complaints handling   
which this refund is  isnt something this service  can look at. So, although  I sympathise with 
Ms H, I cant take this delay into account when looking at her original complaint.
Turning to the original  complaint, and having looked  at the evidence  provided by both Ms H 
and FCA, Ive reached the same conclusions our investigator did  I think  FCA had been fair 
to Ms H.
The crux of the complaint is that Ms H says she asked FCA how to return her car early  she 
says this was with the specific aim of not having  to pay for an MOT  or service.
The email  Ive seen  that she sent doesnt  mention an early return  it simply asks about the 
procedure. It was sent only about  a month  or so before the car was due for return anyway, 
and I think its the sort of email youd send at that point if you were  unsure about the 
handover process  that was due in a few weeks time. It doesnt appear  that Ms H contacted 
FCA to clarify that she wanted to return the car early  until several  weeks later,  just before 
she thought the MOT was due. By which time there  wasnt enough time to arrange collection 
before she was obliged to pay for the MOT  and service.
Ms H was contractually obliged to return the car in a roadworthy  condition. The terms and 
conditions of her contract say she needed  to ensure the car had been serviced as required  
and shed done more than the trigger mileage for this, so Im satisfied the service  was 
overdue. And a car needs an MOT to be roadworthy. I think  FCA was entitled to expect both 
the MOT and service to have been done  before the car was returned. 
FCA has acknowledged that Ms H was inconvenienced by what happened  and that it could 
have been more pro-active. And it agreed  to refund  the costs  Ms H had incurred  to make up 
for this. I think thats a generous  response in the circumstances.
.
Ms H has asked for additional compensation. I appreciate that she was inconvenienced by 
what happened, but I dont think FCA did much wrong. And I think its already done enough 
to make up for any confusion it inadvertently caused, so Im not going to ask it to do any 
more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1926037