K821x#15complaint
Mr C and Ms Z are unhappy with the service  they received from Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
when they applied to change their mortgage  product.
background 
Mr C and Ms Z have a mortgage  with Barclays which is made up of two sub-accounts  (the 
original mortgage  and a further advance). In April 2018 they applied  for a new fixed rate 
product for one of the sub-accounts. The product transfer offer dated 17 April 2018 gave a 
start date for the new product as 1 May 2018.
When Mr C and Ms Z complained in May 2018 that the transfer  hadnt  taken  place they were 
told it wouldnt happen until June 2018 when their existing product came  to an end. They 
were told this was because there was an early repayment charge (ERC) on their existing 
product that would be incurred if the product was changed before the end date. Barclays 
said it hadnt made an error as offer letter said If your mortgage  product has not yet expired, 
we will make the changes  to your account  when it does. The complaints handler said she 
would, however, provide feedback about the dates that auto generate on the offer, and paid 
£50 compensation  to Mr C and Ms Z.
Our adjudicator thought that was reasonable. Mr C and Ms Z didnt agree so it was passed  
to me to review.
Upon reviewing the complaint I saw the previous  product had a condition  called  Switch  & 
Fix. This says:
During the Early  Repayment Charge period, this product  may be rate switched to any 
Woolwich fixed or capped  rate product,  subject  to meeting the new product criteria and 
availability at the time of application, without incurring the Early Repayment  Charge 
payable on this product.  The rate switch will be subject to any application fee and rate 
switch fee applicable to the new product at that time.  The new product may also have an 
Early Repayment Charge  which  will not have the benefit of the Switch & Fix.
I told Barclays that Id have expected it to have contacted Mr C and Ms Z upon receipt of 
their product  switch  application to ask whether they wanted to switch immediately under the 
Switch & Fix condition  as the new fixed rate product had a lower interest rate than the 
existing tracker product.  Barclays agreed and said it will back  date the switch  to 1 May 2018, 
apologise for the errors and inconvenience caused  and offered an additional £100 in 
compensation.
Our adjudicator put Barclays revised offer to Mr C and Ms Z. They  didnt accept it and so the 
case has been passed back to me to decide formally.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im aware  my summary of the background 
above doesnt include every contact between  the parties. I confirm Ive read everything 
provided by Mr C and Ms Z and Barclays. Mr C and Ms Z have made detailed submissions 
in support of their complaint.  Ive taken note of everything theyve said, but I wont  be 
responding to each  and every point, or in as much  detail. No discourtesy is intended by this; 
it simply reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Ref: DRN15519572I understand Mr C and Ms Z feel this should be looked at as part of a broader picture due to 
a similar  mistake having happened previously. Whilst I understand their concerns,  I can only 
look at what happened  here in April/May  2018  as Mr C and Ms Z didnt refer their previous  
complaint to us at the time. And in respect of what happened in April/May  2018 Im satisfied 
Barclays has now made a fair offer to put that right.
Mr C and Ms Z say its more a matter of principle rather  than financial compensation, and 
they were told by Barclays that the system errors  would be looked into. They  say theyre  
concerned this will happen again.
Its not our role to fine or punish  a business  and our awards arent punitive. Clearly  no 
amount of compensation can change what happened;  all I can do is consider the impact  of a 
business actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of compensation weve made  in 
other similar cases. Having done  so Im satisfied that the total offer of £150 compensation - 
plus the backdating of the rate switch to 1 May 2018 - is fair.
Were not the regulator and its not within my remit to order  Barclays to make sure it never 
happens again, and its possible it may happen again. However, if it does happen again Ive 
no reason to believe, if its at fault,  Barclays wont agree  to put things  right. If it does happen 
again, and Mr C and Ms Z dont  think Barclays has put it right that time,  then theyll  be able 
to refer that to us as a new complaint (subject to our normal  rules).
Although I recognise  Mr C and Ms Zs strength of feeling I consider the offer of a total of 
£150 compensation - plus the backdating of the rate switch to 1 May 2018 - to be fair.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I order  Barclays Bank UK PLC to backdate Mr C and Ms Zs rate 
switch to 1 May 2018 and pay them £100 compensation (on top of the £50 already paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms Z to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1551957