K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains about advice given by HDIFA (then  part of Berkshire Financial Advisers
Ltd) to transfer  the value  of her deferred benefits  in her former employers pension  scheme  
to a self invested  personal pension (SIPP) to invest in an unregulated investment.
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) is now responsible  for the advice
HDIFA gave.
background
Ive considered Mrs Ts complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 13 October 
2020. I dont repeat here all I said. But, in summary,  my findings  were:
HDIFA gave Mrs T unsuitable advice to transfer the value of her deferred  benefits in 
her former employers defined benefit pension scheme to a SIPP.  HDIFA had to 
consider the overall  transaction, including what the SIPP  was going to be invested in. 
HDIFA knew Mrs T intended  to invest in an unregulated investment. 
The investment  wasnt  suitable  for Mrs T. The assessment of her attitude  to risk (that 
she was an adventurous or speculative investor) wasnt credible and she didnt have 
the capacity for loss that might  result.  On that basis the transfer was unsuitable for 
her. And it was also unsuitable for the other reasons  I set out. Mrs T shouldnt  have  
been advised to give up valuable guaranteed  benefits in her former employers 
scheme.
Meyado hadnt  argued the advice  was suitable. Its position was that, due to the 
involvement of others, it wasnt  fair and reasonable to hold it responsible for Mrs Ts 
losses in full. 
I considered the involvement of others,  including the unregulated introducer and 
another regulated firm Ill call Firm A. But HDIFAs role was instrumental. If the 
transfer hadnt happened and the SIPP hadnt  been set up, Mrs T wouldnt have  
been in a position to make the investment.  Firm A may have  given advice about  the 
investment. But it couldnt advise on the transfer of Mrs Ts defined benefits and had 
to refer the matter  to HDIFA. 
HDIFA had the relevant permissions and expertise and was responsible  for advising 
Mrs T properly  on the overall  transaction.  HDIFAs role was pivotal, since  the 
eventual investment was wholly contingent on the transfer taking place. 
I then went on to consider  what Mrs T would  have done, if HDIFA had given her suitable  
advice. I said my starting point as to causation was that HDIFA gave unsuitable advice to 
transfer and was responsible for the losses incurred as a result:  Mrs T was only able to 
invest as she did because  HDIFAs unsuitable advice unlocked the money from her former 
employers pension scheme. 
But I said that Meyado  wouldnt be responsible for Mrs Ts losses  if, even with suitable  
advice, shed still have  gone ahead. I needed  to decide that on the balance of probabilities   
whether it was more  likely than not that Mrs T would  still have transferred and invested as 
she did. 
Ref: DRN17408822For the reasons  I set out, I thought shed have gone  ahead even if HDIFA had advised her 
against. In summary  I said:
When Mrs T was referred to HDIFA she thought she knew  what  she wanted to do  
transfer and invest  in an unregulated investment. But Mrs T had been referred to 
HDIFA for specialist advice so shed  likely  have placed significant weight on what  
HDIFA said. If HDIFA had told her it couldnt  recommend the transfer because the 
proposed investment  was too risky,  I thought that would have given Mrs T pause for 
thought as to whether what she was planning  to do was a good  idea after all. 
If HDIFA had advised  her against  and shed still wanted to go ahead,  HDIFA would 
have needed to have treated her as an insistent client. HDIFA may not have  been  
prepared to act on that basis. Even if it was, the process that HDIFA would have 
needed to have adopted would  have further  concentrated Mrs Ts mind on whether 
what she was planning was really advisable. And, if HDIFA hadnt been  prepared to 
act on an insistent  client basis, Mrs T would have had to have found another adviser 
who presumably would have given her suitable advice  that she shouldnt  transfer. 
We knew Mrs T had received a substantial  (£22,470) payment in return for investing.  
It seems  she thought it was money  she was entitled  to take as a tax free cash  
payment from her pension fund.  
I said HDIFA may have known that Mrs T was expecting a payment. I referred here 
to an email from Mrs T sent on 14 May 2012 which I thought should have (and it 
seemed might have)  alerted HDIFA to the possibility that an incentive  payment had 
been offered.  I added that in any event  HDIFA should have known such payments 
might have  been a possibility.  And HDIFA should  have been aware of the risk that 
any incentive payment, if it later came to HMRCs  attention,  could be treated  as an 
unauthorised payment  and attract a large  tax charge. I also said,  if HDIFA had 
treated Mrs T as an insistent  client, the payment may have come to light in 
discussing why she wanted to proceed, despite  advice to the contrary. Knowing that 
she might  lose over half of the money as a tax charge might  have  made Mrs T think  
again. 
But I thought  the money  was an important motivating  factor for Mrs T. I said shed 
been honest about her financial situation  at the time and which  it seemed was 
difficult. Shed told us shed been looking to try to raise money  and had done  some 
internet research about accessing  money in her pension. Her husband  wasnt  
working and he wouldnt be able to return to work. Mrs T couldnt  work as she had to 
care for him. Her father was also ill and she needed  a car to be able to visit him more 
easily. Mrs T didnt  have  savings  or any other assets or access  to funds. 
On balance I thought, even if HDIFA had advised Mrs T against, shed have found a 
way to proceed. I didnt think she had any real alternative,  given she needed  the 
incentive payment  promised. So on that basis I didnt uphold  her complaint. 
Weve not received any further comments from Meyado in response  to my provisional 
decision. 
Mrs T did comment. Understandably she was very disappointed with my provisional  
decision. She said shed sought  professional  help about her pension and shed thought she 
was in good hands. She said she hadnt  been  in financial difficulties and she wasnt 
Ref: DRN17408823desperate for money because of her husbands  ill health. But she was bringing up her two 
sons and so it would have been nice to have had some extra  money. 
She said she was thinking  more of her future. And that shed been misled and given false 
information. Shed been given some brochures about White  Sands but she now didnt  think 
the properties existed and the brochures were  exaggerated. She said shed been led down 
the garden path and her pension, that shed worked for thirteen years for, had been  taken 
away. Shell now have  nothing to live on in her retirement.  She and her husband live in 
rented accommodation  and only she was working. She felt my provisional decision was very 
unfair. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ts disappointment. And why she considers my provisional decision is 
very unfair. Shes said she thought she could  trust who she was dealing  with. But instead 
shes now lost the bulk of her only pension provision.  
As I said in my provisional decision I have every sympathy for Mrs T. I also said I thought  
she was vulnerable and under stress at the time.  
As Ive made clear, I consider HDIFAs advice was unsuitable. But I do have to consider 
what Mrs T would have  done, had HDIFA given her suitable advice and advised her against 
transferring. 
Ive considered what Mrs T has more recently  said about her financial situation. Shes said 
she was thinking  more about her future  and improving  her retirement provision. I can 
understand that was a longer term aim. I can also see that she may well have been misled 
by what was said about the investment and the sort of returns it might generate.  And I think 
any marketing material she was shown  would have made the investment seem very 
attractive as well as safe. 
But I dont think I can discount  what shed told us earlier and which would indicate that she 
was facing serious financial problems at the time and that shed been actively  looking for a 
way to raise some money.  Based on that, I still think that her circumstances were such that, 
on balance and even  if HDIFA  had advised her against transferring,  shed  still have found  a 
way to go ahead anyway in order to secure  the substantial  payment that was on offer.   
That means HDIFAs unsuitable advice didnt cause  Mrs Ts losses and shed  have suffered 
the same  losses in any event and even if HDIFA had given her suitable  advice. So it 
wouldnt be fair to say that HDIFA should  redress Mrs T. 
In the circumstances, and despite my considerable sympathy for Mrs T, I cant uphold her 
complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make  any award. 
Ref: DRN17408824Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1740882