K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained that Pinnacle  Insurance Plc cancelled her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs W had a PPI policy  with Pinnacle for a number of years.  In 2018, Pinnacle wrote  to her 
to let her know that it wasnt sustainable  for them to keep  offering PPI, so they would cancel 
her policy in a little over 120 days time.
Mrs W didnt feel that was fair. She said they hadnt given her any warning, and it would be 
difficult for her to get a new policy for the same price. She felt that all the premiums shed 
paid over the years were  now for nothing, and she asked for them to be refunded.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
While I know this will disappoint Mrs W, I dont  think Pinnacle have done  anything wrong 
here  Ill explain  why.
In much the same way that Mrs W was entitled  to cancel her PPI, Pinnacle were also entitled 
to cancel it  so long as they gave her enough warning.
Under the terms of the policy, Pinnacle  had to give Mrs W at least 90 days notice if they 
were going  to cancel  her insurance. Here, they gave her a little over 120 days  notice, which 
is more than they were  required  to give.  So I can see they gave  Mrs W sufficient warning.
I hope I can assure Mrs W that the premiums she paid were not for nothing. They  still 
protected her during  the time she paid for PPI, and it wouldve paid out if shed needed to 
make an eligible claim.  Indeed, if Mrs W was off sick or lost her job during the period where 
she was paying  for PPI, she may be able to make a back-dated  claim.
More generally, insurance is there to cover  the risk of something going  wrong   its not 
guaranteed to pay out. It would not be fair to make insurers pay back the premiums  just 
because the customer  never happened  to claim  they were still covering  the risk of that 
customer needing to claim. For example, if you never got robbed or had accidental  damage,  
it doesnt mean youre then entitled to a refund of your contents  insurance.
I understand it may be frustrating for Mrs W to have  to find a new policy,  and that other 
insurers may not offer as generous of a price. So I do understand why shes concerned. But 
Pinnacle did give Mrs W more than enough  warning that her policy would be stopping, which 
gave her a fair amount  of time to find a new one. And they were  entitled to cancel it, in much 
the same  way that she was entitled  to cancel it.
Ref: DRN11549142my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint in this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1154914