K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms F complain that TSB Bank plc didnt tell them that they could apply for a new 
mortgage rate when  theirs ended. Additionally,  they complain that they werent able to apply 
for further  lending against their mortgage.
background
Mr C and Ms F took out a mortgage with TSB in September 2012. Their interest rate was 
fixed until November 2014.
In late 2017 they raised a complaint with TSB about a number of issues. One of which was 
that they were  not contacted by TSB to let them know that they could fix a new interest  rate. 
They said that as a result they had been on TSBs Homeowner Variable  Rate (HVR) for 
three years, and thought  they had lost out financially.  
TSB responded in December 2017.  It said that it had sent Mr C and Ms F yearly statements 
which detailed their interest rate. It also said it had written to Mr C and Ms F a month  before 
their fixed  interest rate had ended to let them know. Mr C and Ms F agreed  a new fixed  rate 
on their mortgage from December 2017.
In February 2018  Mr C and Ms F contacted TSB again  to ask about  taking further borrowing 
on their mortgage. They  failed security checks so didnt take things further, but they called 
back later in 2018. At that time TSB couldnt accept their application due to issues with its IT 
systems. Mr C and Ms F decided to source the funds they needed elsewhere. 
Mr C and Ms F then raised  a further complaint with TSB in March 2019. They complained 
about the inconvenience theyd been  caused  by not being able to apply for further 
borrowing. They also reiterated  their complaint  about not being made aware  of new rates. 
TSB responded in March 2019. It didnt uphold Mr C and Ms Fs complaint about not being 
made aware  of new interest rates for the same reason it had before.
In relation to Mr C and Ms Fs request for further borrowing, TSB accepted that theyd been  
unnecessarily inconvenienced  by not being  able to apply. It offered to pay Mr C and Ms F 
£250 compensation for the trouble and upset they were caused, as well as £50 for any 
associated costs. 
Mr C and Ms F didnt think TSB had done enough,  so they raised  a complaint with our 
service. In summary, they said that they had asked TSB for further  borrowing  in August 2018 
but it couldnt accept an application at that time due to IT issues.  Mr C and Ms F say they 
then took out a secured  loan with another business to consolidate some other debts. They  
complained that the loan they took out is more expensive than the one they believe they 
would have been given by TSB and its caused  them financial difficulty. They also brought a 
complaint about  TSB not telling them about new mortgage rates  they were eligible for. 
Ref: DRN16023452Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr C and Ms Fs complaint. She was satisfied that TSB had 
done enough to tell Mr C and Ms F that their fixed rate was ending,  and that TSB wasnt  
required to offer new products. She also accepted that being unable  to apply for further 
borrowing would have  been frustrating and inconvenient, but said there was no guarantee an 
application would have been successful,  and it was Mr C and Ms Fs choice to take 
borrowing elsewhere on the terms they did. Our investigator said that TSBs  offer to pay 
Mr C and Ms F £250  compensation as well as £50 for expenses  was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C and Ms F didnt agree. They said that they thought that if TSB could have accepted an 
application for further borrowing in August 2018  they would have been successful. They 
asked for TSB to clear the loan which they took out and compensate them  for the payments 
made to that loan so far.
The case  was passed to me to decide what should  happen. I issued a provisional decision. 
In summary,  I said;
failure to offer a new interest rate
Its understandable  that Mr C and Ms F were frustrated to find that they could have been 
paying a higher rate on their mortgage  than they needed to. However, Ive reviewed their 
mortgage agreement  and Im satisfied that it was clear that their mortgage rate would  
change to the HVR from November 2014. I therefore dont think that TSB has done anything  
wrong by applying its HVR from that date. 
TSB has told us it would have written  to Mr C and Ms F in October  2014 to tell them that 
their rate would be changing. Its not clear  whether it actually did this because its records 
show that although a letter was produced, it doesnt show  it was dispatched. There  are 
contradictory records which suggest  that Mr C told TSB he had received such  a letter, but 
hes recently told us he didnt.
In any case, TSB has also shown  us annual mortgage statements which  were  sent to Mr C 
and Ms F in subsequent years which showed that their fixed interest  rate had changed to a 
variable one. And from what theyve said, I dont  think  that Mr C and Ms F dispute that they 
knew, or at the very least, reasonably  ought  to have known, that their rate had changed. 
Mr C and Ms F have said that their main issue is that they think  TSB should have contacted  
them to let them know they could fix on a better interest rate. However, there wasnt  a 
requirement for TSB to do this. Additionally, Mr C and Ms F told us that they made enquiries 
about taking a new product with a different provider whilst on TSBs  HVR. I think  this 
demonstrates that they were aware that it was possible to switch to a new product or interest  
rate. Overall  Im satisfied that Mr C and Mr F ought  reasonably to have known that their 
mortgage rate had changed and also that TSB didnt  do anything  wrong  by not contacting 
them about  other available rates.
request to borrow more  money
Mr C and Ms F say they spoke to TSB about this in August 2018. They say that TSB told 
them it could  not accept an application  and they felt they had no other choice but to seek 
borrowing elsewhere. 
Ref: DRN16023453TSBs records  contradict  this somewhat; it doesnt  have any record  of Mr C and Ms Fs 
contact in August  2018, but it accepts  this may have happened.  It says that during that time 
it was advising its customers it couldnt accept any applications for further  borrowing and 
was offering to waive any early repayment  charges which might apply if customers chose to 
re-mortgage elsewhere. So I think its likely that Mr C and Ms F knew  there were other 
options available to them. 
TSB also gave us a statement from a branch  employee which says that Mr C and Ms F 
discussed the possibility of further borrowing in branch in late 2018.  In that statement the 
TSB employee also says that although an application was not completed, they did go 
through Mr C and Ms Fs income  and expenditure with a view to helping  their financial 
positon. Mr C has also told us that he had explored other avenues to apply for the borrowing 
they needed, but were unsuccessful due to outstanding debts they had. 
I accept that this would  have  been frustrating for Mr C and Ms F, especially if they think  that 
the borrowing  they subsequently  decided to take was on less favourable terms than they 
otherwise would have been able to get with TSB. TSB told us that it cannot  say for sure 
whether Mr C and Ms F would have been  successful  had they applied for further borrowing 
in late 2018. It has however  shown that Mr C and Ms F missed  a mortgage payment  in 
November 2018  and their account  has been  a month  in arrears since. 
If TSB had been able to consider an application for further borrowing from Mr C and Ms F in 
late 2018, it would have been obligated  to ensure that borrowing would be affordable for 
them. Ive seen TSBs published lending  criteria, and given what  both TSB as well as Mr C 
have said about  their financial position  at the time, on balance,  I think  it unlikely that Mr C 
and Ms F would have  been successful in their application for further borrowing with TSB  
whether in August 2018 or later that year. And in any case, even if I accept their application 
would have been accepted, like our investigator, I dont think that TSB should fairly be held 
responsible for Mr C and Ms Fs decision to source further borrowing elsewhere, on the 
terms they did.
TSB accepts that it had IT issues which prevented Mr C and Ms F applying  for further 
borrowing. It also accepts that this would have been  inconvenient for Mr C and 
Ms F, and offered to pay them £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, as well 
as £50 for costs. Whilst I agree TSBs caused  Mr C and Ms F unnecessary inconvenience, I 
think the £250 compensation it offered to pay them is reasonable in the circumstances, I also 
think the £50 TSB offered for costs is fair. 
In conclusion, for the reasons explained  above, I dont think  TSB needs  to take any further 
action in relation  to Mr C and Ms Fs complaint. 
TSB didnt  have anything  further to add. Mr C and Ms F did, and they made  a number of 
points. 
In summary,  they maintained that TSB should have  but did not  make them aware  that 
their interest rate had changed, or that they could take out a new product on their mortgage 
to fix the interest  rate. They said that TSB gave  them the impression that theyd have to stay 
on its HVR or move their mortgage elsewhere to fix a new interest rate. They  also said when 
they took the mortgage out, TSB didnt explain that their mortgage  rate would move to the 
HVR after their fixed rate.
Ref: DRN16023454Mr C and Ms F also maintained that had TSB been  able to accept  their application for further  
borrowing on their mortgage when they had initially enquired about it, it would have been 
successful and they would have been  in a better financial position than the one they now find 
themselves. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not found  any 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Mr C and Ms F made a number  of detailed points in response to my provisional 
decision. I dont  intend to list and address every point they made  as I dont think  this will be 
necessary to reach a fair outcome on this case.  I have, however, fully considered  all of the 
points Mr C and Ms F made. My decision will therefore cover what  I consider  to be the 
relevant points to this complaint. 
Ive carefully considered  the further points Mr C and Ms F have made about whether TSB 
made them aware that the fixed rate on the mortgage had ended, and they were able to take 
another product. As my provisional decision  explained, I accept  its possible   although the 
available evidence is contradictory  that Mr C and Ms F may not have received the letter 
which TSB generated towards the end of their fixed rate product, to let them  know their rate 
was changing.  
However, TSB has shown  us subsequent  annual  mortgage statements  it sent to Mr C and 
Ms F and Im satisfied  that these clearly  show that the interest rate had changed to the HVR. 
I also found that their mortgage agreement clearly set out that their rate would  change  to the 
HVR from November 2014.  Lastly, when Mr C and Ms Fs mortgage rate changed to the 
HVR, their monthly payments actually  reduced  by almost £200. Taking all of these  factors  
into account, Im satisfied that Mr C and Ms F ought  to have been aware that their interest 
rate had changed. 
Overall Im also not persuaded that TSB gave  Mr C and Ms F the impression they couldnt 
apply for a new product on their mortgage. TSBs  records show little contact from Mr C and 
Ms F between 2012 and 2017 and those  records do not support Mr C and Ms Fs assertion. 
Mr C and Ms F say they werent aware  that they could apply for a new product, but they told 
us that they spoke to other  providers  about new rates, so I think at the very least they ought  
reasonably to have  queried this with TSB had they been unsure. Ultimately though, there 
was no obligation  for TSB to contact Mr C and Ms F to offer them a new product.
I also accept that it would have been very frustrating  for Mr C and Ms F to find that TSB 
werent able to accept  an application for further borrowing at the point they wanted to. In my 
provisional decision I said that I thought it unlikely that Mr C and Ms Fs application wouldve 
been successful,  having considered their financial position as well as TSBs lending criteria.  
Mr C and Ms F have not provided me with any further evidence which would lead me to 
change my mind on that point. 
Ref: DRN16023455Additionally, and significantly, I also said that I dont think that TSB should be held 
responsible if the borrowing they eventually took was on  what they believe to be  
unfavourable terms. Mr C and Ms F have not provided any evidence which persuades  me 
that they had no choice  but to do this as a result of TSB having  been unable to accept an 
application. At the point they say they wanted  to apply for further borrowing they were not 
tied into a product with TSB, so they were free to consider  re-mortgaging elsewhere  
without penalty  - to source the funds  they wanted.  That means they were free to explore the 
options available to them and decide what was the best thing to do in their position. So I still 
dont think TSB should be held responsible  for this.
I nonetheless  accept that TSBs inability to accept an application  for further  borrowing was 
inconvenient for Mr C and Ms F. But I think that £250 (and an additional £50 for costs) 
represents fair compensation for whats happened. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that TSB Bank plc has already done 
enough to put things  right for Mr C and Ms F.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1602345