K821x#15complaint
Mr B says that Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Sunny approved 29 loans for Mr B between April 2015 and July 2018. Mr B says that the 
loans were not suitable for him and he was struggling with debt at the time. Proper checks 
would have revealed these difficulties.
In its analysis of the loans  Sunny agreed  that the first loan wasnt affordable for Mr B but in 
its final response to his complaint Sunny said that all of the loans were given correctly.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Bs complaint  and thought that Sunny shouldnt have 
continued to lend to Mr B from loan 6 onwards as he was reliant on this type of credit  and 
essentially using the loans to supplement his income. The adjudicator thought  that by this 
point Sunny should have  realised that further  borrowing wasnt sustainable. Our adjudicator 
recommended that Sunny  put things right for Mr B by refunding  all interest and charges 
incurred on loans 6 to 29 as well as loan 1. 
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that it didnt think  
Mr B was persistently relying on the credit.  It pointed  out that there  was a break between 
loans 7 and 8 and Mr B repaid all his loans  in full and on time. It agreed that it could have 
done more and offered to refund all interest and charges from loan 20 onwards.
Mr B didnt accept that offer so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN19251302the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr B could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. As Sunny has said that loan 1 was 
unaffordable and shouldnt have been given  to Mr B I havent considered this further save to 
include it in the redress and as part of Mr Bs overall  borrowing pattern.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr B. It asked Mr B for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Mr Bs credit  file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Mr B loans 2 to 5 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  It was early in the lending  
relationship and so I think  the checks were enough  for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr B 
hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans one to 
five, I dont think that I need  to say more about them.
Sunny has already offered  to put things  right in line with the adjudicators recommendation 
for loans  20 to 29, so I will focus  on the loans  which remain  in dispute  loans 6 to 20.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Bs lending with Sunny  to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Mr B.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I agree with the conclusions  of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan six. I say this because:
when Mr B took out loan six, hed been  borrowing almost continually and wasnt making 
any inroads into the amount that he owed. Mr B had taken 5 loans in 4 months  which 
doesnt suggest that he was using short term credit sustainably.
Ref: DRN19251303Although there was a break between loans 7 and 8 it was only around three and a half 
months and so I dont  think it was long enough to allow  Sunny to conclude that any 
difficulties had passed.
Mr B continued to borrow from Sunny almost continually. I think  this pattern of lending 
shouldve alerted Sunny to the likelihood that Mr B was having problems managing 
his money. 
I think that Mr B lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
these loans  had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended for short term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans,  combined with the total length of time Mr B had been borrowing 
from Sunny was likely  to have had negative implications on his ability  to access  
mainstream credit. This kept Mr B in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint about  loans 6 to 19 in addition to loans 1 and 20 to 29.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges that Mr B paid on loans 1 and 6 to 29;
add simple  interest  at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file about  loan 1;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded  
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 to 29 should  be removed from 
Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1925130