K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to decline his property insurance 
claim for impact damage to his roof. He also complains about the way that Ageas handled 
his claim.  
background
In November 2018 Mr B suffered damage  to the roof of his tenanted house. He notified  his 
broker who in turn notified Ageas  that he wanted to make  a storm damage claim and also 
claim for damage caused  internally by water  ingress. Ageas initially asked  Mr B to get two 
repair estimates and to send it some  photographs of the damage;  and it appointed  a loss 
adjuster to validate the claim. 
The loss adjuster noted thered been  no single identifiable storm around the time the 
damage was discovered so recommended  to Ageas that the claim was declined. Unhappy  
with Ageas decision, Mr B complained. He said he was getting photographs  of the damage 
to the roof so the claim could be considered. 
Ageas wrote  to Mr B at the end of January 2019  to say it had now looked  into his complaint. 
It said that there were  no storm conditions  present  around the time the damage was 
discovered but, having spoken to Mr Bs broker following Mr Bs complaint, the adjuster had 
agreed that a definitive decision on cover would be made once  the contractor had been able 
to take the photographs and once Ageas had been able to review  them.  Ageas noted  that 
Mr B had arranged to have repairs done and said that once they were it would be in a 
position to decide if the claim  for the roof itself was covered. It apologised for prematurely 
declining Mr Bs claim. 
Ageas received the photographs  at the end of February 2019  and noted  they showed  the 
roof to be in a poor state and that the damage looked to be maintenance related. The loss 
adjuster wrote to Mr B to say it was willing to settle  his contractors invoice  in full (minus the 
policy excess)  for the internal damage (it being covered under the accidental damage  
section of the policy)  but from reviewing the photographs there appeared to be no evidence 
that the damage had been caused by a storm. The loss adjuster thought  the damage was 
maintenance related. 
Towards the end of March 2019, Mr B advised Ageas he would like his claim for damage  to 
the roof covered under  the policys impact peril. Ageas  looked  into whether the damage 
could be covered under this part of the policy and in early April 2019 it gave Mr B its answer. 
It said there was no evidence the damage  was caused by impact.  It said itd reviewed all the 
photographs and its loss adjusters reports again  but remained of the view that the damage 
to the roof was the result of neither storm nor impact  and as such wasnt  covered  by the 
policy. 
Unhappy with Ageas decision, Mr B complained to this service  about Ageas decision to 
decline the claim and the way itd been  handled. Our investigator  looked into his complaint 
but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  He didnt think that Ageas has reached  an unfair or 
unreasonable decision about Mr Bs claim nor did he think the claim itself had been  poorly  
handled. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators  findings,  so the complaint was passed to me for 
decision. 
Ref: DRN19618572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains is covered  by a property insurance  policy.  Only damage 
caused by one of the perils (insured events)  listed in the policy is covered. If it can be shown 
that the damage was caused  by one of the perils listed then the insurer must pay or settle  
the claim (unless it is successfully able to apply one of the policy exclusions to defeat  it). If it 
isnt shown that the damage has been  caused by one of the perils  in the policy  then the 
insurer doesnt have  to meet the claim. 
Unfortunately for Mr B his claim falls at the first hurdle; the damage to his roof hasnt  been  
caused by any of the perils listed in the policy. It is agreed by both parties that there  was no 
single identifiable  storm on or around  the time the damage was discovered. If there has been  
no storm event then storm cannot  have caused  the damage. 
Mr B has said that the damage to the roof was the result of impact.  He says that damage 
caused by impact is covered by the policy. He says his contractor said this was the cause of 
the damage. I agree that the policy does provide cover  for damage caused by impact but 
only in very limited circumstances. It states that damage caused by Impact by any vehicle 
train or animal is covered. 
Mr B says he doesnt know what caused the impact damage to his roof. He says it may have 
been anything  from a flying brick, tile or slate or something from an aircraft. But to be 
covered by the policy, it has to be shown that the impact damage has been caused by a 
vehicle, train or animal. Clearly as the damage was only to the roof, it cant  have been 
caused by a vehicle or train. The only possibility is that it was caused by an animal impacting 
the roof. But theres no evidence that an animal  impacted the roof and caused the damage 
Mr B has reported. 
Unfortunately, its not enough to show, when looking at the cover for impact damage, that 
there may have been a random impact  by another object. For the damage to be covered, 
Mr B would have to show that it was the result  of animal impact. So, it follows that I cant  
agree with Mr B that Ageas has made  an unsustainable claims decision. I dont think its 
unfairly or reasonably declined his claim. 
Ive noted Mr Bs comment that the loss adjuster didnt visit the property to inspect the 
damage. But I can see that extensive photographs were taken of the damage and I dont 
consider it was unreasonable for Ageas and the loss adjuster to base its claims decision  on 
them.
Mr B has said that in the end he had the whole roof retiled but hes not looking for Ageas to 
meet the entire cost he incurred.  He accepts that would  be betterment. He says hes only 
looking for Ageas to pay for the damage  caused  to the roof by impact. But Ageas is only 
liable to meet his claim if theres evidence the damage was caused by a vehicle, train or 
animal. And as Ive explained there isnt any evidence it was. 
The damage caused internally to the property by water ingress  has been covered under the 
accidental damage  section and I can see that Ageas has reimbursed in full (minus  the policy 
excess) Mr Bs contractors invoice. And I note that Mr B has no issue  with this aspect of his 
claim.
Ref: DRN19618573Finally, Ive thought  about Mr Bs complaint about  the way that Ageas handled  his claim. Ive 
set out in the background section above  the sequence of events. By its own admittance, 
Ageas shouldnt have declined the claim (in early December 2018) without first seeing the 
photographs of the damage. It has apologised to Mr B for doing so and I think  thats  a fair 
and reasonable response to this part of Mr Bs complaint. And I can see that Ageas said it 
would wait to see the photographs  Mr Bs contractor intended to take. These  were  sent at 
the end of February 2019. Once  they were received Ageas notified Mr B of its claims 
decision within a week. Similarly, Ageas responded to Mr Bs request it consider the claim 
under the impact peril with about two weeks. 
I think Ageas  dealt with the claim in a timely way. I cant  say it delayed the processing of the 
claim at all so I cant reasonably require it to pay him any compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1961857