K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1999, 2002  and 2005. Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background 
Mr B complained to this Service.  I understand Lloyds  Bank  has agreed to uphold  the 
complaints about  the PPI sold in 1999  and 2002.  So I will only be considering the complaint  
about the PPI sold in 2005 which was rejected by both Lloyds Bank  and our adjudicator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold in 2005  because:
 Having seen  the separate PPI application form and the separate  direct  debit  mandate  
which were both signed by Mr B; and having  seen the mortgage offer which  refers  to 
Optional  Insurance I think Lloyds  Bank  made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember  
this.
 Lloyds Bank recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - 
particularly in relation to the self-employed terms as they were not onerous; and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information Lloyds Bank gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what he has said about not being 
able to make  a successful  unemployment  claim because he was self-employed; and about 
not knowing the PPI had been added to his account  or that it was an optional  product. But 
these points dont  change my decision.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds Bank  needs  to give back  to Mr B some  of the 
commission he paid. The Supreme Court ruling  and new rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr Bs 2005  
mortgage was a regulated mortgage, they dont apply. So Lloyds Bank doesnt need to 
refund any of the commission Mr B paid for the PPI he had with that mortgage.
Ref: DRN16159742my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1615974