K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner  
Finance) (BPF) didnt provide him the service it should have in regard to the repayment  of 
his fixed sum loan agreement.
background
Mr A entered into a fixed sum loan agreement in 2014 with BPF to acquire a car. The 
agreement required 48 monthly  repayments of around £200 and then a final payment  of 
around £4,500.  Mr A says that when he entered into the agreement he thought  that he would 
have a choice  at the end to hand the car back.  However when reaching the end of the 
agreement he contacted BPF and was told he would need to make the final payment.
Mr A says that given  he wasnt expecting  to make the final payment he didnt have the 
money available and a payment plan of £200 monthly payments was set up. This agreement  
came to an end on 28 April 2019  so he contacted BPF on 25 April to set up a new plan. Mr A 
says that he went  through his income  and expenditure  and a new 12 month plan of £250 
monthly payments  was agreed.  He says he was told the first payment, due on 28 April,  
would need to be made manually. Mr A called BPF on 28 April but as it was a Sunday the 
office was closed and so Mr A made  the payment through the automated  system.
Following this Mr A received a letter saying he hadnt been in contact and had an amount 
outstanding. Mr A says that he then spoke to more than one adviser who didnt know what  
was happening on his account and gave him incorrect  information.  He says he had to spend 
a lot of time on calls and that he had to provide his income and expenditure information  
again. He says he had to make calls in work  time which caused him embarrassment and that 
that he was caused sleepless nights by being  made to believe his payments had gone 
missing.
Mr A says that after raising a complaint he was told the issue  was probably due to issues  
with the automated payment system. Mr A says that BPF offered to pay him £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill due to the service he had received. However he says this wasnt then 
paid when he was told it would be and so he had to chase  BPF.
Overall, Mr A says that £50 isnt sufficient to cover the distress and inconvenience he was 
caused by the issue  in setting up his new payment plan.  
BPF says that Mr A contacted it in April 2018  to ask about options  to repay the final payment 
due under his agreement  in instalments. It says he was told this would affect his credit  file as 
he would  be n a payment  plan. A plan was set up in May to 2018 to run to April 2019.  
In April 2019, Mr A contacted BPF and a further  12 month plan was set up. It says that Mr A 
was told he would need to make the first payment but when he did this using the automated  
payment system there was an issue meaning  his plan had failed and so he was told he 
would need to provide new income and expenditure information. Mr A raised  a complaint as 
he felt he hadnt  been provided the service  he should l have and it paid him £50 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator thought that BPF had done enough to resolve this complaint.
Ref: DRN19930652Mr A didnt accept our investigators view and so his complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says that he thought he would be able to return the car at the end of his agreement  
rather than make the final payment. While I appreciate there  may have been some confusion  
about this, the agreement  he entered  into was a fixed sum loan agreement and it clearly set 
out the terms. Although Mr A has noted  this issue in his complaint it is not the reason for his 
complaint and without  further evidence regarding what he was told at the point the 
agreement was entered into I do not find I can comment further on this.
Mr As complaint is about the service  he received  when he tried to enter into a new payment 
plan. Mr A agreed a payment plan with BPF in May 2018 under which  he would make 
monthly payments  of £200. Mr A maintained  this payment plan and contacted BPF on 25 
April to discuss a new payment plan. A new plan was agreed but Mr A was told that due to 
timing of the payment he would need to make the first payment manually.  
As BPF put payment plans in place at Mr As request, I find it was working with him and 
treated him positively  at this time.
Following the instruction  he had received, Mr A called BPF on 28 April to make his payment. 
However, as this was a Sunday,  the office wasnt open and so he made  his payment through  
the automated  system. I find this was reasonable and accept  that Mr A had done what was 
required.
Unfortunately there was an issue and Mr A received a letter  saying he hadnt been in contact 
and had an amount  outstanding. I can see why this would have caused him concern. Mr A 
contacted BPF and I can understand why he was upset by the service  he received. He says 
he received incorrect  information  and felt like the advisers werent taking ownership of the 
issue.
Having looked  through the system notes provided  and considered  Mr As testimony I agree 
that he didnt receive  the service he should  have. He was caused  inconvenience by having  
to chase for information  about what had happened  to his payments and he had to provide 
information that had previously been provided. 
However, BPF did raise  Mr As complaint in a timely way and when the issues  were 
understood it offered him £50 compensation. I appreciate this took a few days to reach Mr A 
but as the issues  were  raised in early  May and the compensation paid on 9 May I find it 
acted in a timely way.
Overall, I think the compensation that BPF has paid to Mr A is reasonable. Therefore I do not 
require BPF to do anything further in regard to the settlement of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN19930653my final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays  Partner 
Finance) (BPF) is not required to do anything further  in regard to this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1993065