K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund a series of transactions made from 
his late mothers account.
Background
Mr M has brought this complaint as a representative  of his late mothers estate. Mrs M had a 
current account with Bank  of Scotland. Mr M says that between  April 2014 and March 2016,  
there were many transactions on the account  that werent authorised  by Mrs M. He says that 
these were carried out by his sister  and that during this period,  she effectively treated Mrs 
Ms current  account as if it were her own.
Mrs M was in poor health and relied extensively on family members using her card for her. 
That means that, throughout the period  of disputed account activity, there were some  
transactions that were legitimately authorised by Mrs M but were carried out by a family 
member on her behalf. Mr M provided us with a detailed  list of the transactions highlighting 
the ones that he believes  were not authorised by Mrs M.
Mr M also raised a number of other concerns about  the way in which  the account was 
administered by Bank of Scotland  staff  for example, he was unhappy to discover that his 
sister had been  designated as a third-party on the account from February 2015 onwards, 
that she was able to arrange for statements to be sent to her home  address and that she 
was incorrectly appointed as a representative  of Mrs Ms estate.
Mr M complained to Bank  of Scotland which agreed  it hadnt handled things as it should 
have done. It offered  Mr M £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  it had 
caused him. Mr M didnt  think  this was enough and so he referred  the complaint to this 
service.
It was looked  at by an investigator who didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said that its 
now difficult to confidently  say which of these transactions  were  authorised  by Mrs M and 
which werent. And that even if he found  strong enough evidence to say that any specific 
transaction was not authorised, Mrs M had compromised the security of the account  by 
sharing her PIN quite widely with members  of her family. The applicable law in this area 
wouldnt require Bank of Scotland to refund the transactions. The investigator agreed that 
there were concerns regarding the signing of the third-party mandate   but he thought that 
this wasnt the reason  why Mrs Ms account was vulnerable to potentially  unauthorised 
transactions.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said that, were  it not for the unauthorised  
transactions, there wouldve  been  enough money in Mrs Ms estate to pay for the full cost of 
her funeral.  As a result, he experienced significant  distress in making sure that these costs 
were paid. Because Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion, it has been referred to 
me to issue  a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN15007162The disputed transactions
The basic  position  is that Bank  of Scotland can hold the account holder liable for the 
disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that they made 
them or authorised  them.  Bank of Scotland has been able to show  that each transaction  was 
appropriately verified. In the case of the chip & PIN transactions,  it has provided evidence  
showing that the genuine card was used, the chip was read and the PIN entered correctly.  
For the online transactions, it has shown that the correct CVV code (the 3-digit security code 
on the back of the card)  was used. Im therefore  satisfied that these transactions were  
properly authenticated. But that isnt enough on its own. I also need  to consider whether 
Mrs M consented  to these transactions. 
The unfortunate reality  is that, given the limited available evidence, its difficult  for me to 
make a safe finding  as to whether Mrs M consented  to each individual transaction. Mr M has 
pointed to specific transactions  and argued that its unlikely she consented to them on the 
grounds that she cant have enjoyed the benefit  of them  for example, the payments for 
concert tickets and hotel  stays. This isnt an unreasonable supposition. However,  the 
evidence that these payments were authorised as gifts is at least  equally strong.  I must  
decide these matters on the balance  of probabilities, and I dont think its more  likely than not 
that the transactions werent  authorised. 
I also agree  with the investigators conclusion that, even if I were to identify specific 
transactions that she didnt authorise, the fact that shed shared her PIN would mean that 
shed failed to comply with her obligations to keep  the account secure. Under the relevant 
regulations in this area, that would  mean  Bank of Scotland wouldnt be expected to refund  
the transactions. The regulations treat distance contracts (for example, online purchases) 
differently. I can see that payments connected  with distance contracts were made from her 
account, but I cant safely say that Mrs M didnt consent to these. 
Administration of the account
A third-party  mandate  was applied to the account  which gave Mr Ms sister  certain  powers in 
respect of that account. Ive been  shown internal guidance that says Bank  of Scotland 
employees shouldnt  allow  a third-party  mandate  to be applied unless strict requirements 
were met. The relevant  document  would need to be signed by the account holder and also 
witnessed by a third party.  The form would then be scanned onto the banks internal system. 
Unfortunately, theres no evidence that this was done. 
However, its not necessary for someone to have  a third-party mandate  to have access to 
the funds in the account if they also have access to the card and PIN. This equally applies to 
Mr Ms other  concern  about his sister being  accepted as a representative  of the estate  and 
the fact that she was able to arrange for statements to be posted  to her address. In view of 
that, I agree with the investigators conclusion that any failings on the part of Bank of 
Scotland here werent  the cause of any loss to Mrs M. 
Other issues
Mr M has a range  of concerns about the way Bank  of Scotland has handled things and he 
thinks that the general quality of customer service hes received has been  poor.  He also said 
(in response  to the investigators view) that the unauthorised transactions  meant  there 
wasnt enough money in Mrs Ms estate  to cover the cost of her funeral. Having to deal with 
Ref: DRN15007163this problem caused him a significant  amount of distress.  Bank of Scotland  has offered him 
£500 in recognition of these difficulties, which Mr M thinks is insufficient.
There can be no doubt that Mr Ms experience must  have been a source  of tremendous 
distress. Im genuinely  sympathetic  to the difficulties  hes experienced. Unfortunately,  the 
rules that apply to this service and set out what powers I have only allow  me to award  
compensation to the complainant. In this instance,  the complainant isnt Mr M - its the Estate 
of Mrs M which hes authorised to represent. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mrs M 
had suffered distress  or inconvenience as a result of Bank of Scotlands actions. So while  I 
dont disregard what Mr M has told me about  the experience hes had, Im not free to ask 
Bank of Scotland to pay him additional  compensation in connection with it.
Final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1500716