K821x#15complaint
Mr T and Mr V are unhappy with the service  theyve had from AXA Insurance  UK Plc in 
connection with their claim on Mr Ts car insurance.
background
Mr Ts car was hit by a third party who reversed into it when it was parked on a driveway. 
Neither Mr T nor Mr V (who was a named driver on the policy) was in the car at the time.
Mr V notified  AXA of the accident on 10 September 2018. It seems he decided to claim on 
Mr Ts car insurance  shortly after that. And he sent in still photos from a CCTV camera  
showing the damage to the car not long after that. 
Later in September AXA notified  the third partys  insurer it was holding its insured liable for 
the damage and asked  the insurer to accept  liability.  It seems it sent two further letters  (the 
last in March this year)  asking  for confirmation from the insurer  that liability wasnt  disputed. 
AXA says Mr V and Mr Ts claim was uploaded onto a portal on 21 September  2018 but the 
photos from the CCTV cameral werent uploaded  until 13 November 2018.  It says the insurer  
disputed liability and chased it for an update in March 2019 but it couldnt see any other 
updates on the portal.
When Mr V spoke  to the third partys insurer in March 2019, he was told it wasnt  disputing  
liability. But it seems he was told it was disputing the level of damage Mr T and Mr V are 
claiming for. I understand  Mr V was also told the insurer  was waiting for an independent 
report from AXA into the damage in order to progress the claim.  As far as Im aware, that 
report still hasnt been prepared.
I cant see that AXA has responded to Mr V and Mr Ts complaint directly  but it has sent its 
file to us. The investigator who looked  at the complaint upheld it. She thought AXA should 
contact the insurer  to see if it still needed the report into the damage  to progress the claim 
and, if it did, it should  arrange for this to be done.  She also thought  AXA should pay           
Mr V and Mr T £150  for the hassle  and stress  it had caused.
AXA hasnt responded to our investigators  view.  Mr V and Mr T dont accept it. Theyd  like to 
be compensated two thirds of the premium  Mr T paid for the policy.  So their complaint has 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator  that this complaint should be upheld.
I dont have a very full picture of how Mr T and Mr Vs claim has been progressed  by AXA.  
But there was a delay of more than two months  in it uploading photos of the damage to      
Mr Ts car onto the portal. Although AXA says liability was disputed, like our investigator, Ive 
got no reason  to doubt what Mr V has told us and that its the level of damage being claimed 
for thats  disputed. 
In the absence of evidence  to the contrary from AXA (and, as Ive mentioned,  it hasnt 
responded to our investigators view), I can only assume  as our investigator did  this 
Ref: DRN15593262slowed down the process of settling the claim with the third party  insurer. From AXAs  own 
records, it seems  it hasnt  responded  to a request from the insurer  for an update in March  
2019.
So it looks  to me as if AXA hasnt treated Mr T and Mr V fairly and theyre  losing out as a 
result. To put things  right,  AXA should  contact the third party  insurer as soon as possible to 
find out what it needs to settle the claim as quickly as possible. If this involves an 
independent inspection and report on the damage to the car, it should  arrange for this to be 
done promptly. If its anything else, it should also act promptly
I can see that Mr V in particular has suffered some  distress and inconvenience because  of 
AXAs delays in handling  the claim. Hes had to chase for updates and contact  the third 
partys insurer  directly  and has clearly been frustrated by the experience. So I think  its fair 
and reasonable that AXA should compensate Mr T and Mr V £150 for the distress  and 
inconvenience theyve  been caused.
I dont think it would  be right to direct AXA to repay  two thirds of Mr Ts car insurance 
premium. As our investigator has pointed out, Mr T would always  have  had to have car 
insurance  its a legal requirement. And AXA also remains  liable for any valid claims  made 
during the period of the cover; thats  what Mr Ts premium  pays  for. Our role isnt to penalise 
AXA for the mistakes  it has made  which I think is what directing AXA to repay part of        
Mr Ts premium would amount to. Instead  its about,  as much as is possible, putting           
Mr T and Mr V back  in the position they wouldve  been in had AXA done everything as it 
shouldve. On the facts  of their complaint, this isnt straightforward but I think the directions 
Ive given above are the closest I can get to doing that in a way thats fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr T and Mr Vs complaint. I direct AXA Insurance  UK 
Plc to pay Mr T and Mr V £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused them. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within  28 days of the dare we tell it       
Mr T and Mr V accept my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1559326