K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that a car he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading as Volkswagen Finance is of 
unsatisfactory quality.  
background
In July 2013, Mr J acquired a car through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Volkswagen Finance (VWFS). In 2016, Mr J noticed a squealing noise was coming from the 
car. The car was inspected and it was determined that the timing chain needed replacing. 
The repair was carried out by a third party garage. 
Mr J complained to VWFS  as he felt the timing  chain shouldnt have needed to have been 
replaced on a five year old car. VWFS said there was no evidence  to suggest there was an 
inherent fault with the car and that it was more likely  that the problem with the timing  chain  
developed over time. They  also said that timing chains were  subject  to wear and tear and 
werent immune to mechanical failure.  So VWFS didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J wasnt happy with VWFSs response so he asked  us to look at his complaint. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold Mr Js complaint. Unhappy with his findings,  Mr J asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Legislation says that any goods  supplied should  be of satisfactory quality and that this is 
deemed to be the case if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account  any description of the goods, the price  and all the other 
relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant 
circumstances that would be taken into account  might include things like the age and 
mileage at the time of supply and the vehicles history.
So when deciding what  is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about whether the 
quality of car supplied  by VWFS was satisfactory. 
The car Mr J acquired was just over two years old, had travelled around 19,000 miles and 
had a cash value  of about £16,500. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable 
person wouldnt  expect the level of quality to be the same as a brand new car. For Mr Js 
case though, Ive also taken into account  that one of the aspects appropriate to consider  in 
relation to satisfactory quality is durability. I think this is the key consideration in this case.
Mr J feels that the car had a part, namely  the timing chain, which failed early. He says its 
unacceptable to expect to have this happen in a car that had only covered 80,000 miles at 
the time the fault occurred. And Mr J has referred to articles  both in the UK and abroad 
which highlights that this is a known issue with this particular manufacturer.  
Ref: DRN14279172I realise Mr J feels there is clear evidence that this is an issue that is well-known and that 
many others have experienced. Ive taken  his comments on this into account.  But I also 
need to consider the evidence that relates  to the actual car Mr J acquired and the particular 
circumstances that surround it. 
Mr J unfortunately hasnt been  able to send us a copy of the report  from the third party  
garage (who Ill call M) that inspected and repaired the timing chain. He has though sent us 
copies of text messages  between him and M. And he has also sent us some  comments  from 
an engineer at another garage (who Ill call L) who looked at the car. 
The engineer at L said they carried out a compression test on the car but were  unable to do 
anything other than surmise what the problem was. So, while the engineer also said the 
manufacturer should take responsibility , this isnt based on specific knowledge of what the 
problem was and what caused it. I dont think this is particularly  compelling evidence as a 
result. 
An engineer  at M explains  what he feels happened as follows:
the best way to describe  it would  be imagine a thick chain extremely  fast hitting vital parts 
causing catastrophic damage. The pistons and valves collided also cracking  the cylinder 
head. Its a problem common with your engine Im afraid. The problem often found is the 
tensioner being faulty like in your case. Further to that it isnt a serviceable part so wouldnt 
be diagnosed  until its too late
So the engineer actually  seemed to find a fault with the timing chain tensioner rather than 
the timing chain itself.  I think this is likely  to have led to the timing  chain  failing. Mr J has 
mentioned that a timing chain should last the lifetime  of the car. But if the timing  chain  failed 
because of a faulty chain  tensioner, then the relevance of the expected lifespan of the chain 
itself isnt relevant.  What  is relevant  is in my view is whether the chain tensioner  failed  
prematurely. 
Ms engineer  also mentioned that the manufacturer was aware of problems with timing  chain  
tensioners on this particular make and model of car and went on to say:
 it is my professional opinion that VW need  to take accountability  for the damage  caused to 
your engine.The mileage, age and condition of your car should  certainly  not be needing  
repairs like this and I would agree that VW need  to take ownership, absolutely. 
Ms engineer  seemed pretty certain that VWFS should take responsibility  for what happened  
to Mr Js car. And that the manufacturer was aware of that particular issue. We asked VWFS 
to clarify whether  there  were known issues with timing chain tensioners with the particular 
make and model of car Mr J had. They mentioned that, although there  was action taken  on 
this issue, it related to other makes and models. 
I havent seen  enough evidence that there  were  known issues with chain tensioners in this 
particular make and model of car, to the extent that this caused  the tensioner  in Mr Js car to 
fail prematurely. Although Ms engineer felt VWFS  were responsible for this, there isnt a lot 
of detail on how and why the tensioner  was faulty  other than this was a known issue. 
However, as Ive mentioned, Im not persuaded that this was a known issue with this 
particular make and model of car.
Ref: DRN14279173Ive also taken into account that Mr Js car had travelled 80,000 miles in total by the time this 
problem happened. That isnt an insignificant amount  of mileage and would lead me to doubt 
whether I could say for certain that the chain tensioner shouldnt have failed at that time 
because of an underlying issue with it at the point of supply. 
Having carefully considered all of the evidence, I dont find that Mr J was supplied with a car 
that was of unsatisfactory quality. So it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint, for 
the reasons given in this decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1427917