K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the information  The Mansfield Building Society (MBS) gave 
them in relation to an early  repayment  charge (ERC) on their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with MBS  in 2016 with a loan term of 11 years.  
In 2018, Mr and Mrs C decided to move home - repaying their mortgage early.  
In September  2018, Mr and Mrs Cs solicitors spoke with MBS on the phone. The person  at 
MBS said that an ERC would be charged if Mr and Mrs C repaid their mortgage  before 
18 October 2018.
Mr and Mrs C later found out this information was wrong, and that they would  incur  an ERC 
if the mortgage was repaid before 18 October  2019.  
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  their solicitor had been given incorrect information  over the 
phone. And because of this they complained  to MBS. 
MBS responded to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  to say that although it agreed its representative 
had given them wrong information,  it said that Mr and Mrs C ought to have been aware of 
the correct date, as this had been confirmed with Mr and Mrs C both before and after the 
phone call in September 2018.  Because of this, it said that it wouldnt be upholding 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  and would not be paying  them any compensation.
Mr and Mrs C brought  the complaint to our service. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  the 
complaint either  it thought that MBS had done enough to make Mr and Mrs C aware of the 
ERC despite the wrong information being  given to them on the phone.  Mr and Mrs C didnt 
agree with our adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im not going to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Both parties  agree Mr and Mrs C were given wrong  information over the phone by a 
representative of MBS.  So I dont  need to make  a finding on this point. But I do need to 
decide what sort of impact  this had on Mr and Mrs C, if any, and whether any compensation 
should be awarded as a result of what MBS did wrong.
Ive seen a copy  of the Offer of Advance from 2016 when Mr and Mrs C took out this 
mortgage. I can see it says an ERC  of £1500 and a £150 charge would be due if 
Mr and Mrs C repaid  the mortgage within  36 months. Ive seen copies of annual  statements 
that were sent to Mr and Mrs C. These also confirmed that an ERC would be due if the 
mortgage was repaid  before 18 October 2019.
Ref: DRN17394392In addition to this, MBS has sent me a recording of two phone  calls it had with Mrs C. One 
on 15 June 2018  and the other on 20 September 2018 (three  days  after it gave the wrong 
information). In both of these calls, Mrs C asked what the redemption figure of the mortgage 
would be including  the ERC.  And on both occasions, MBS made it clear to Mrs C that an 
ERC would be due if they repaid the mortgage  before  October 2019.
Mr and Mrs C had been made aware  on a number of occasions that an ERC  would  be due if 
the mortgage was repaid before October 2019.  And although I agree it must have been 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs C to have been  given wrong information.  I dont  think theyve lost 
out because of this, or suffered too much  trouble  or upset. So Im not going  to ask MBS  to 
compensate Mr and Mrs C for what it did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1739439