K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt make clear to him at the point of sale 
that the second of the two over 55s life cover  plans he took out would be paid into a trust. In 
other words, that hed only be able to utilise a £250 benefit attached to one of the plans.  
background
Mr A was sold two over 55 life cover  plans by Nationwide  that started in January 2011 and 
March 2012. 
Mr A thought  both plans  would be paid towards his funeral costs  to his chosen funeral 
provider  so that he could maximise the £250 funeral benefit attached to each plan. He 
doesnt want the second plan to have to go through  his estate.   
Nationwide has rejected the complaint. In summary  it said:
The plans were  sold on a non-advised basis. 
The Nationwide staff werent authorised to give advice, and could only provide 
information.  
The documentation  provided confirmed that no advice was given.
It was up to Mr A to ensure that the plans were  suitable for his circumstances. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  He 
said because this was a non-advised sale Nationwide wasnt responsible. He explained:
The first policy wouldnt automatically go to a particular funeral provider. Theres no 
obligation on Mr As next of kin to go with a particular provider, but if they decided  to 
arrange a funeral  with this particular provider, a £250 benefit will be paid on top. 
Although the second policy doesnt  have this facility  because  its one benefit per 
person  Mr A could  specify  in his Will that funeral arrangements must  be made with 
the same  provider, in which case the second  policy would also go towards the cost of 
the funeral but through Mr As estate.  
 
Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators view and has asked  for an ombudsmans decision. He 
maintains that he was advised by a Nationwide adviser in branch. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the plans were  taken  out on a 
direct basis. In other words they were  sold without financial advice. I note the 
documentation provided also makes clear that no advice was provided.  
Im satisfied Mr A bought  the plans of his own volition and as a result,  Im unable to consider 
the suitability of the plans.  I believe  the onus was on him to make  sure the over 55s life 
cover plans were suitable for his circumstances, and that he could  by going to a particular 
provider  utilise the £250 benefits attached to each of the plans. 
Ref: DRN10497102The plans arent generally considered to be complicated and its not unlikely that Mr A 
wouldnt have taken  out the plans  without advice.  And Im satisfied the plan documentation 
supplied to Mr A before  he would have accepted the plans was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
I appreciate Mr A raises  a very discrete point. In an advised sale situation Id more  likely than 
not expect a business to make clear that whether or not the additional benefits  in a 
subsequent life plan  could be utilised together or whether one would be placed in trust. 
I dont doubt what  Mr A wanted,  and what he thought he had taken out. I accept that he 
wanted to utilise each of the £250  benefits  and genuinely thought thats what he was getting. 
But it was his responsibility  in a non-advised situation - to make sure hed got what he 
wanted. 
Having taken all these  factors  in to consideration, Im unable to safely conclude  these  were  
advised sales and therefore I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr As frustration Im unable to require Nationwide  to do anything 
because I dont think it has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1049710