K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies taken out by Mr and Mrs C in 1997  
and 1998 in connection with loans secured on their home. The policies provided cover for 
Mrs C if she couldnt work  because of accident,  sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the products it 
recommended were suitable  for Mr and Mrs Cs needs?
-Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs C the information they needed to decide whether to take out 
the policies?
If there was a problem  with the way the policies were sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs C are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policies  if there  hadnt been any problems with the sales?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs C say PPI wasnt  discussed  when they took out their loans with Halifax,  and they 
didnt know it had been added to their account. 
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs C and 
Halifax when the loans were arranged. Im also mindful that these  events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide much documentation from the time the policies were  
sold. Again,  thats  not surprising as its many  years since the they were sold.
But Ive seen a copy of the 1998 loan agreement. This was completed to show that Mr and 
Mrs C wanted to take the PPI. There was a box on the document that couldve been  
Ref: DRN16563722completed if they hadnt wanted to buy it. So I think Mr and Mrs C wouldve realised  they had 
a choice about whether or not to buy the PPI for the 1998 loan.
Regarding the PPI sold with the 1997  loan, without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs 
C have told me, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to conclude  that Halifax  
didnt make them aware that this PPI policy was optional. 
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs C to take out the PPI and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances when they took out the loans. I say this because:
-Mrs C was eligible for the policies given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
-Mrs C says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work because  of 
sickness or accident. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to her employer benefits and 
would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policies in place  wouldve meant Mr and Mrs 
C could use Mrs Cs employer benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs C 
would have had some use for the policies despite their existing arrangements.  
-Mrs C wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policies main benefits, such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely she and Mr C needed 
better advice or information about  the policies  exclusions and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs C before  they agreed to buy 
it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have  to pay something for it. The policies 
were competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely  Mr and Mrs C 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mrs C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policies had reasonable benefits.  So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have made  a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have 
taken out the policies.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 October  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1656372