K820x#14complaint
Ms W says HSBC  UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the business  as HSBC in my decision. 
background
Ms W bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ws complaint  because:
 I think HSBC made Ms W aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. 
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Ms Ws credit card application form. On this 
form, just above where Ms W signed the overall  agreement, there were 2 options for 
PPI. There was an option to add PPI to the account or an option to decline PPI. A tick 
has been placed next to the option to take PPI and Ms W has signed  the overall 
agreement. So I think this indicates  what Ms W wanted.  
 HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Ms W so it didnt  have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did still have to give Ms W good enough information so that she could decide 
if she wanted to take out the policy. 
 Its possible the information HSBC gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ms W doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. 
Ive noted what  Ms W has said about being on maternity leave when she took out the 
policy.
But during  that time I think its unlikely she wouldve needed to claim for being unable  
to work due to illness or injury. But the policy could still have  paid out if shed lost her 
job unexpectedly during  that time. And she would still have been able use the cover 
before after returning to work. 
So based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I still think that she could 
have found the PPI useful  and I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it. 
Ref: DRN11281122Ive taken into account Ms Ws comments, including what shes  said about her financial 
circumstances at the time of the sale. Although Ive not seen evidence  that Ms W had a need 
to keep costs down at the time of the sale, as this was a sale were  HSBC werent making a 
recommendation to take PPI, they didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Ms W. 
And, although the information about  the cost of the PPI could have been better, Ms W paid 
for it by a monthly premium and it could  be cancelled  at any time if Ms Ws circumstances 
changed or she no longer wanted  the PPI, or she simply felt it was affordable  when it 
appeared on her monthly credit card statements. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1128112