K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  Lowell Portfolio I Ltd (Lowell) recorded a default without issuing a default 
notice. She asks that the default  be removed from her credit  file.
background
Miss S held a catalogue account  with a third party, Ill call V. The account  fell into arrears, 
the third party  issued a notice of default  on 8 January  2018,  and again  on 5 March 2018 to 
the address it held on file. The account  defaulted on 27 March  2018 and was then sold to 
Lowell.
Lowell then took over the reporting responsibility for the associated default.  It didnt change 
any information about the default except to substitute itself for the original business to reflect 
the new account ownership.
Miss S says she didnt  receive the default  notice as she had moved address and complained  
to Lowell asking  for the default  to be removed. Lowell didnt uphold the complaint as it didnt  
issue the default and so couldnt ask for it to be removed.
An investigator looked into things for Miss S. He looked at all the correspondence between 
the parties and listened to telephone recordings between  Miss S, V and Lowell. He found 
V had applied  the default, having  sent two separate notices to the account it held on file. 
He didnt agree that either Lowell  or V had acted unfairly and so he didnt ask them to do 
anything further.
Miss S disagreed. She is adamant  she didnt receive a default notice and asked for an 
ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
I think its important to say at the outset that Im solely looking at the actions of Lowell,  and 
whether or not it has acted unfairly towards Miss S. Im not reaching  any decision about the 
actions taken by Business  V, although I may refer to them in this decision.
The crux of this complaint lies in the issue of a default notice, which Miss S says she didnt 
receive, as it wasnt sent to the address at which she was living. She argues  in the absence 
of this statutory  notice the default  shouldnt have been recorded on her credit  file. 
Miss S originally held the account with V. It issued a default notice in January 2018 and 
again on 5 March 2018. I have listened to a telephone call between Miss S and V on 13 
March 2018, in which Miss S gives V information about her new address. In the same  call, 
she informs V she hasnt updated her address  online  or by telephone earlier.  The 
Ref: DRN12085092representative informs  Miss S the account has defaulted and if a payment isnt made before 
23 March 2018  the account is listed to be sold to a debt management  company.  Miss S 
explains she cant make  a payment by 23 March but will call back  to make a payment on 27 
March.
The contact  notes show no further contact was received  and so the account  was sold to 
Lowell on 4 April 2018 after the default was reported  to the credit  reference agencies 
(CRAs). 
Once V sold Miss Ss account,  Lowell  became  the legal owner of the outstanding liabilities. 
It has a responsibility to ensure information held on credit  files is accurate and up to date 
and as such, it informed the CRAs of the change in ownership from V to itself.
I have looked  at email  correspondence in which Miss S asks Lowell to remove the default if 
the balance is paid in full. Lowell informed Miss S then when the balance  is paid in full it will 
mark the account as satisfied  but cant remove the default.
Im satisfied Lowell  have given Miss S the correct information as it didnt record  the default  in 
the first instance, Im persuaded it has acted fairly and reasonably and so I wont be asking it 
to do anything further.  As I mentioned  at the outset  I have only looked at the actions taken 
by Lowell and so Miss S may wish to raise this matter with Business V directly.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1208509