K821x#15complaint
Mr S, represented by his father, complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) 
failed to communicate with his representative about  his Index Linked Savings Certificate 
when its term ended. He says this meant  he lost money because he missed out on the 
chance to move his investment to a better  policy.
background
In 2011, Mr Ss mother took out a policy for him to invest in Index-linked Savings Certificates  
with NS&I. The investment was for just under £15,000 with a term of five years.  Mr S was 
recorded as the holder of the investment and his mother was recorded as the purchaser. At 
the time,  Mr S was seven years old.
When the investment  matured in 2016, NS&I  wrote to Mr S to tell him the product was 
reaching the end of its term. The letter  was addressed to Mr S who, at that time was aged 
twelve. His parents didnt see the correspondence.
In 2018, Mr Ss father  inquired  about  the investment and was disappointed to find out it 
hadnt rolled over as hed expected. He raised  a complaint with NS&I because  he said they 
hadnt received  a maturity pack. NS&I  rejected  the complaint as it said it had written to Mr S 
in 2016 but had no response. Mr Ss father didnt think this was enough so he came to this 
service. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld  as Mr S couldnt be 
expected to have understood the letter. But NS&I asked for review by an ombudsman.
After considering the evidence provided,  I requested further evidence of phone  calls Mr Ss 
father made to the business before and after maturity. I then issued a provisional decision 
indicating that I didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr Ss father  responded to my provisional  
decision with further comments  and Ive taken account of those in reaching this decision.
NS&I did write to Mr S when the investment matured in 2016. I note that the letter  started by 
saying You may want to show this letter to your mum or dad or the person who looks after 
you. As the account was in his name alone, I think it was reasonable for the letter  to be 
addressed to him and I think NS&I did enough to flag that he might  want to share  it with an 
adult to understand what it meant.  So I dont think NS&I is responsible  for Mr S not sharing 
the letter with his parents.
In early 2016, Mr Ss father called for information about the investment and asked what 
would happen  when it matured in May. The adviser  told him thered be a letter sent out 30 
days before  the maturity  date setting out the options. So I find that Mr S knew  the 
correspondence was due and knew when the investment would mature.  Therefore he 
couldve looked out for the correspondence  and followed up with NS&I more  quickly  if he 
didnt see anything. Mr S says he thought  the account would rollover. But this wasnt 
indicated in the call in 2016.  Although the adviser  in the call in 2018 suggested, incorrectly, 
that there  would be a rollover,  I dont think this is relevant to the complaint because that call 
was around two years after the maturity date so didnt affect Mr Ss action on maturity.
Ref: DRN12318822In all the circumstances and taking account of industry practice for correspondence on 
childrens accounts,  I dont think NS&I was wrong to address  the letter to Mr S. And I dont  
think it was obliged to chase the letter itd written to Mr S when it didnt  get a response. Ive 
considered the Financial  Conduct Authority guidance Mr S referred to in his response but it 
doesnt change  my view on the circumstances of this case.  
I can understand why Mr S didnt take action  when she got the letter, but I think Mr Ss father  
was aware of the maturity date and couldve followed  up in 2016  if he hadnt heard anything  
from NS&I. I know  this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for but I hope my reasons for 
reaching this decision  are clear.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1231882