K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that Joseph John McKenna  (trading as Clear Finance  JJM)  shouldnt 
have advised  her to transfer one of her pension policies, as this included  a guaranteed 
annuity rate (GAR).
background
The background to this complaint is included in the provisional decision I issued in February 
2019 (copy  attached). I explained why the complaint should be upheld, and how Mrs W 
should be compensated. 
JJM didnt accept the provisional decision. In response,  it said:
The main argument that defines if the advice was poor depends on whether the fund 
value would have  grown had the transfer not happened.
The point  JJM wishes to get across  is that because the policy had a guaranteed lump  
sum at retirement of £8,965 the provider deemed it unfair to other with-profits 
policyholders to allow it to have regular  or terminal bonuses.  This is why no bonus 
had been added and therefore  restricts the benefit of the GAR.
The provisional decision suggests that the GAR  wasnt made clear enough to Mrs W. 
Her main  aim was to retire at the same time as her husband, which  is documented in 
the fact find. Unfortunately, not everything  is always documented. But when Mrs W 
was told shed have  to wait until she was 61 to take her pension she questioned why 
shed do that. 
Mrs W has since completely changed this in her complaint to say that her main 
objective was to give her a pension should anything  happen to her husband. But the 
entire advice was built on Mrs W taking her pension at age 55. 
The current fund value of the pension quoted in the provisional decision is a 
projection and not a true reflection of the fund. JJM has spoken to Scottish  Widows  
and it has confirmed  no bonuses  have been  added to the fund since 2003.  So the 
fund value would have remained at £5,310. 
My description of the GAR as valuable would seem to be made with hindsight  and 
false confidence in my ability to predict annuity  rates in eight years time.  
The loss calculations look at the difference between the annuity values and the GAR.  
This doesnt seem relevant as Mrs W wont be able to take the GAR until 2027. The 
problems I have  in predicting the loss at that point undermines confidence in in the 
rationale behind  my decision.  
If it remains my intention to uphold the complaint, I should  get an assurance from 
Mrs W that she will be using  the funds to purchase a single life annuity in the same 
way as under the GAR.  If she intends  to buy a different annuity, another method  of 
compensation needs to be considered. 
But JJMs view is that the complaint should  be rejected as Mrs W was aware of the 
benefits shed  lose and she moved the fund so it could grow. The fund has performed 
well and at this stage  its not clear  if there  has been a loss. 
Mrs W said her only concern was how JJM would work  out the compensation. She wanted to 
know if JJM should look at the growth of the policy she left, or the potential  growth  of the 
further contributions  shes made to the new plan. She said shed certainly have paid more 
into the existing  plan if it would have provided a GAR of over 9%.
The matter  has now been passed back to me for review. 
Ref: DRN12720312my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note JJM has questioned my reference  to the GAR as a valuable  benefit. It also says Ive 
made this comment using hindsight. I disagree.
At the time JJM was advising  Mrs W in 2010, I think the possibility that a pension  policy  may 
contain a GAR would have been an important factor that had to be considered. This is 
because GARs had often  been included at a time when annuity rates were much higher than 
more recently. Im therefore satisfied its reasonable to refer to this as a valuable  benefit. 
Further, the investigator also referred  to the GAR in this way. But I cant see that JJM 
objected to this description when responding to her view. In fact, I note that in an email  JJM 
sent the investigator in September 2018 it accepted that a GAR is a valuable benefit.  
JJM also say what defines if the advice was suitable depends on whether the Scottish 
Widows policy would  have increased  in value. Again, I disagree.
I appreciate that when  Mrs W sought  advice she was looking  at taking her pension  when  her 
husband retired. But it doesnt follow this was certain to happen. The potential retirement 
date was still several years in the future, and circumstances can change.  
The GAR included  in Mrs Ws policy was only available  at age 61, and so about six years 
after her husbands  suggested retirement date. But by advising Mrs W to transfer  out of the 
policy, she lost the option of taking  the GAR. 
Overall, I dont  think Mrs W should have been  advised to take this action. Had the policy 
remained in place, Mrs W would have been  able to reassess the position  when  she decided 
to take her benefits.  For instance, if she should  include  the fund from the Scottish Widows 
policy with the rest of her pension benefits, or to defer taking her pension from this plan until 
she could take advantage  of the GAR. But that option was lost because of the advice JJM 
gave. 
As I also noted in my provisional  decision,  the transfer value was about  half the guaranteed 
value of the Scottish Widows policy. So any investment  returns  under the new plan had to 
overcome this deficit before there was any real growth.  
From the evidence Ive seen, its not clear that all the implications of transferring away  from 
Scottish Widows  were  explained to Mrs W. For instance, I note that the suitability letter 
shows the fund value and transfer  value as being the same,  which is clearly incorrect. 
Also, when discussing the option  of staying with Scottish Widows, the letter  says the with-
profits fund has very poor performance with no re-balancing and no lifestyling. But it makes 
little reference  to the GAR. This is only mentioned briefly  when  considering the benefits at 
retirement. The letter said the guaranteed annuity  would  only be paid at plan retirement  date 
on a single life basis and yearly in arrears,  thus restricting her options. Theres  no comment 
about how much the GAR is worth, or what benefit  this could provide at retirement. Theres  
also no reference to how the GAR compared  with current annuity  rates.  
Ref: DRN12720313The suitability letter also sets out a comparison of the benefits from Mrs Ws existing 
policies. For the Scottish  Widows policy that is the subject of this complaint the pension at 
age 60 is larger assuming a 5% growth  rate than for a 9% growth  rate. I appreciate this may 
be because the figures  were transposed.  But I think this also shows  Mrs W was given 
confusing and conflicting information. 
JJM says not everything that was discussed  with Mrs W was documented  in the fact find. I 
understand this point.  But the suitability letter gave JJM the opportunity of outlining  the 
advantages and disadvantages  of the proposed advice. As Ive noted  above, I dont think  it 
did so. Ive therefore not seen sufficient evidence Mrs W was made adequately aware of all 
the implications of transferring her Scottish Widows policy and losing the GAR. I think  that if 
Mrs W had been aware,  shed have chosen not to transfer the policy. 
Ive noted JJMs comment about the current value of Mrs Ws policy,  assuming  she hadnt 
transferred it. I should clarify the figure  of £10,417.88 I included in my provisional  decision 
was provided by Scottish Widows in response  to a direct request.  Scottish  Widows also 
stated that GAR would be available on the full sum.   
JJM says if I uphold the complaint, Mrs W should be required to give an assurance that she 
will take her pension on the same basis as the GAR, and the payment of compensation 
should be conditional on her taking her pension in this way. But this misses the point that her 
option to take the GAR has been lost as a result of the advice  she was given and cant be 
replaced. The compensation is intended  to ascribe  a monetary value on the loss shes  
incurred. In the circumstances, I dont agree the compensation should be subject to the 
conditions JJM has suggested. 
The method  of compensation Ive proposed seeks to put Mrs W now in the same  position, as 
closely as possible,  as if she hadnt  transferred her policy. It is intended to bring closure to 
this matter, and Im satisfied provides a fair and reasonable means of resolving the dispute.
Ive also noted  Mrs Ws comments. But I should explain that any further pension 
contributions shes  made to the plan JJM recommended would not have increased the fund 
to which  GAR would apply had these  been paid into her original Scottish  Widows policy. So 
she hasnt suffered any loss in relation  to the GAR as a result of the further contributions. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint, and require Joseph  John  McKenna (trading as Clear Finance) to:
(1)Determine the current notional transfer  value  of the Scottish Widows retirement annuity, 
assuming it was not transferred, and increase the value by the ratio of GAR/CAR, where 
GAR is the guaranteed  annuity  rate that would  have  applied  to Mrs Ws previous plan, 
and the CAR  is a current annuity rate available on the same  basis with a competitive 
annuity provider.
(2)Obtain the current  actual transfer value  of the money transferred  into the new plan from 
the Scottish Widows retirement  annuity.
(3)Determine any loss as at the date of calculation as (1)-(2).
If this calculation shows Mrs W has suffered a loss, Joseph John McKenna (trading as Clear 
Finance) should  pay the amount in (3) into a pension plan for Mrs W. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN12720314If the payment into a pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, then 
the loss in (3) should be paid directly to Mrs W as a lump sum after making a deduction of 
15%. The deduction of 15% is applied as the redress would otherwise have been used to 
provide pension benefits, 25% of which would be tax free and the rest would have been  
taxed according to Mrs Ws likely  tax paying  status in retirement   presumed to be 20%. And 
so the 15% deduction adequately  reflects this.
I also consider that Mrs W has been  caused  some trouble and upset because of the 
inappropriate advice  she was given. Therefore, I consider that Joseph  John McKenna 
(trading as Clear Finance) should pay Mrs W an additional £250 to compensate her for this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12720315COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs W complains  that Joseph John McKenna (JJM)  shouldnt have advised her to transfer one of her 
pension policies, as this included a guaranteed  annuity  rate (GAR).
background
In 2010, Mrs W was advised to transfer four existing  pension plans into a new pension scheme. One 
of the plans  was a retirement annuity contract provided  by Scottish Widows,  and contained a GAR  of 
£90.91 per £1,000.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. She felt the advice to transfer 
Scottish Widows  pension wasnt suitable, as this meant she lost the benefit  of the GAR it contained. 
JJM didnt agree.  It provided  information which showed that the with-profits fund Mrs Ws policy  
invested in hadnt had any bonuses added since 2003. JJM also thought  that because  of the GAR 
bonuses wouldnt  be added in the future. 
The matter has now been passed to me for review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs W met with the JJM adviser in 2010 together with her husband. They wanted to review their 
pension benefits. Mr W indicated he wished to retire at age 65, and Mrs W would retire at the same  
time. That would mean retiring  when  she was 56. The joint target income  in retirement they wanted to 
achieve was £27,000  a year. 
Mrs W was advised to transfer  all her existing  pensions  into a new plan. She was assessed as having 
a balanced attitude to risk, and the adviser  recommended that she invest in a balanced  tracker fund. 
Its apparent JJM were aware  that Mrs Ws Scottish  Widows retirement  annuity contained a GAR, as 
this is recorded in the advisers notes.  JJM did refer to the fact that the policy contained a GAR  in its 
suitability letter to Mrs W. It said this would  only be paid at plan retirement on a single  life basis and 
annually in arrears. But it didnt go into this in much detail. For instance, it didnt set out what this 
could mean  in monetary  terms.   
In its response to Mrs Ws complaint, JJM says it told her the policy had a GAR of £90.91 per £1,000.  
This equated to an annuity of £446.19.  Ive not seen evidence to support this, and, in any event, if this 
was how it was conveyed to Mrs W I think it underplayed the potential value of the GAR. This annuity 
figure was based only on the transfer value,  and therefore apparently assumes  it would never  be 
greater than this. 
It seems one of the reasons  for recommending the transfer, despite the GAR, was because annual 
bonuses had not been added to the plan for several  years. But Scottish Widows has told us that the 
policy still qualified  for terminal bonus, which would become payable  when the benefits were taken. 
So there was still the prospect for the policy fund value to grow.  Scottish Widows has confirmed that if 
the policy  hadnt been transferred, the current policy  value would be £10,417.88. This would all be 
available to receive  the GAR  at age 60. 
Ref: DRN12720316Im also mindful  that the transfer value  of £4,907.71 didnt  represent the full value of Mrs Ws policy. 
The information Scottish Widows sent JJM in 2010 stated that the guaranteed  cash benefit at maturity 
was £8,965.51,  included bonuses added to date. As such, a little over half the value  of the policy was 
available for transfer  into the new plan.  This shortfall would need to be recovered  before any real 
growth could  be achieved on the transfer value. 
In the circumstances,  Im not convinced  JJM took full account  of the benefit  that could be provided by 
the GAR, nor that it made Mrs W adequately aware of this. 
I appreciate that at the time she was seeking advice Mrs W was looking to retire  at the same time as 
her husband. Therefore, this would be about four years before she could take advantage  of the GAR, 
as this was only payable if she retired at age 60. I also appreciate the GAR was only available on a 
specific basis   payable only to Mrs W, annually in arrears and without escalation. 
But nonetheless, this was a valuable benefit provided by the policy. The GAR  was set at a time when  
annuity rates  were much  higher generally than has been  the case in recent years. Its unlikely that the 
transfer value would have  been able to achieve the level of growth  within  the new plan to provide 
anything like the same  annuity which  had been given  up. 
The transfer  value from the retirement annuity represented  only part of Mrs Ws total pension  fund. So 
I dont think it would  have  impacted heavily  on her retirement plans  if shed delayed taking  her 
pension from this policy  in order to take advantage of the GAR.  
On the whole,  I think its likely  that had the position been explained to Mrs W properly, and shed 
understood the full implications of giving up the GAR,  shed have chosen not to transfer the Scottish  
Widows plan.  This would have then left her with the ability to reassess  her options  when her husband 
was due to retire.  
putting things  right
I appreciate the investigator proposed the method by which Mrs W should be compensated for JJMs 
error. However, I would like to clarify how I think the loss should  be calculated. 
To put things right, JJM should:
(1)Determine the current notional transfer value of the Scottish Widows retirement  annuity,  
assuming it was not transferred, and increase the value by the ratio of GAR/CAR, where GAR  
is the guaranteed annuity rate that would have applied to Mrs Ws previous plan, and the CAR  
is a current annuity rate available  on the same basis with a competitive  annuity provider.
(2)Obtain  the current actual transfer value of the money transferred into the new plan from the 
Scottish Widows  retirement annuity.
(3)Determine any loss as at the date of calculation  as (1)-(2).
If this calculation  shows Mrs W has suffered a loss, JJM should  pay the amount  in (3) into a pension 
plan for Mrs W. The payment should allow  for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If the payment into a pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  then the loss 
in (3) should be paid directly to Mrs W as a lump sum after making a deduction of 15%. The deduction 
of 15% is applied as the redress would otherwise  have been  used to provide pension benefits,  25% of 
which would be tax free and the rest would have been taxed according  to Mrs Ws likely tax paying 
status in retirement  presumed to be 20%. And so the 15% deduction adequately reflects  this.
I also consider  that Mrs W has been caused  some trouble and upset  because  of the inappropriate 
advice she was given. Therefore, I consider  that JJM should pay Mrs W an additional  £250 to 
compensate her for this.
Ref: DRN12720317my provisional  decision
I uphold Mrs Ws complaint, and am minded to award compensation as set out above.  
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1272031