K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the amount that hes been charged by Volkswagen  Financial Services  
(UK) Limited, trading as Skoda Finance, for damage  to a car that he returned at the end of 
his hire agreement.  
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr C under  a hire agreement with Skoda Finance that he signed 
in April 2014. The hire agreement ended in April 2018 and Mr C returned the car. It was 
inspected by a third party on behalf of Skoda Finance. The vehicle condition report identified 
a scratched left front alloy wheel, a scratched left rear quarter panel and an excessively  worn  
carpet in front of the drivers seat.  The cars  mileage  was recorded as 56,881 miles. Skoda 
Finance charged  Mr C £36 to repair the wheel, £21 to refurbish  the quarter panel and 
£192.41 to replace the carpet.  He complained to Skoda Finance about those charges. It 
agreed to waive  the £21 refurbishment charge but Mr C wasnt  satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association guidelines on fair wear  and tear state that 
carpets shouldnt have holes  and the photo in the inspection report shows that the carpet 
on the car that was returned by Mr C had been holed. So she said that there  were  no 
grounds to ask Skoda Finance to waive the fee for the carpet.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that he used 
the car in an entirely normal way, wore normal footwear  and drove the car normally  for four 
years and around 60,000 miles.  He says that, if his heel rests in the same  place for that 
length of time and mileage - and if the cars fitted with poor quality carpets, then its entirely 
unavoidable that a hole will wear into the carpet.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C returned the car when his hire agreement ended and it was inspected  by a third party 
on behalf of Skoda Finance. The vehicle  condition report  identified a scratched  left front alloy 
wheel, a scratched  left rear quarter panel and an excessively  worn carpet in front of the 
drivers seat. The report includes photos  of that damage. Skoda Finance charged Mr C for 
the damage  but it then accepted that the damage  to the quarter panel  wasnt  clear so it 
agreed to waive  the charge for refurbishing that panel. But it says that Mr C is liable for the 
other charges which remain outstanding.
The hire agreement says:
You agree  to return the Vehicle to us at the end of the Hiring Period in good repair 
and condition except  for fair wear and tear (as defined in the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association Fair Wear and Tear Guide)  .
Those guidelines say that carpets  should  not have  holes in them. Theres no dispute that 
there was a hole in the carpet of the car that was returned by Mr C. And I consider  it to be 
fair and reasonable in these circumstances  for Skoda  Finance  to charge him £228.41 for 
Ref: DRN10718752damage to the car. Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to show that the carpet 
was of poor quality  or that the hole was fair wear and tear. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Skoda Finance  to waive the damage  charges.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1071875