K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about the way Specialist  Motor  Finance Limited,  trading  as Specialist Motor
Finance, dealt with the termination  of his Hire Purchase Agreement. He would like Specialist
Motor Finance to admit  it hasnt dealt well with his case. And to clear his account  balance
background
Mr L says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with Specialist Motor Finance in January
2017. Unfortunately he says he was off work ill from June 2017. He says he managed  to
maintain his payments until November 2017 when he failed to make one payment.
On 6 December  2017 he told Specialist Motor Finance  of his health problems. He says at
that point the company told him had limited options   to find the money  to pay the
outstanding instalments or to return the car. He agreed to return the car as, financially, that
seemed the best option for him.
Having made that decision  he says he then had to keep contacting  Specialist  Motor Finance
to see if the car had been sold and what his outstanding debt was. He said he found this
very stressful. He says in April 2017  he started  to get texts from a debt collection agency
(dca) demanding  an immediate  payment of £10,000. He says the stress  of this led to him
being hospitalised.
Specialist Motor Finance apologised that Mr Ls account had been  sent to a dca in error. It
confirmed the account was now back in-house.  And it refunded £212 of outstanding  fees.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
-There were  three issues for me to consider -  the information  Specialist Motor 
Finance gave Mr L,  the amount Mr L owed, and if  compensation  were  appropriate
-Every effort had been made  to request copies of phone calls to listen  to but these 
were not available.
-In July 2017 Mr L asked for reduced  payments, or a payment holiday, but this didnt 
seem to have been agreed.  And I didnt know why not.
-In a conversation  in December Mr L seemed to agree to VS his vehicle. There was 
no mention of the VT option.
-Specialist Motor Finance didnt explore all available options with Mr L.
-Mr L would have  taken the best option  financially for him given he wasnt in a positon  
to make the repayments needed.  
-It more likely than not that Mr L would have  taken  the VT option- he would have 
known exactly what his outstanding  liability would be rather  than not being clear of 
his financial position until his car was sold under  the VS agreement.
Ref: DRN16736012-Financially the VT option was the best one for Mr L to take. It would have meant  a 
one off payment  of £6,939.49
-The VS payment was £10,871.53
-Specialist Motor Finance provided us with a letter  addressed to Mr L dated  15 
January 2019.  This stated an outstanding balance of £10,871.53  after the sale of Mr 
Ls car. But allowed  for an interest  rebate of £4,325.82, leaving Mr L a final 
outstanding balance of £6,545.71. It wasnt  clear if it sent this letter to Mr L or just 
sent to us as an illustration
-Specialist Motor Finance confirmed the figures are no longer valid.  And declined to 
make an alternative offer.
-It was unreasonable  for Mr L to expect all of the outstanding balance to be waived. 
He signed a contract which  gave a financial commitment if he ended  his agreement  
early.
-It was reasonable  to put Mr L back in the position he would have been in if he had 
taken the VT option.
-If Mr L wasnt in a position to pay off the outstanding amount due under the VT option  
Specialist Motor Finance should agree a reasonable  and affordable repayment plan 
with Mr L.
-The compensation Specialist Motor Finance had already paid (it waived £212 of 
outstanding fees as a gesture of goodwill) when it acknowledged it shouldnt  have  put 
Mr Ls debt with a dca was fair.
-However I didnt feel Specialist Motor Finance gave  Mr L sufficient  information  about 
the options available to him which it should have  done. If it had Mr L might not have 
been in the positon of having  a debt being placed in the hands of a dca.
-Not knowing what his outstanding debt was and not being  aware  of the significant  
financial difference between a VS and VT option caused Mr L additional stress which 
deserved £500 compensation.
-It was reasonable  for  Specialist Motor Finance to  reduce Mr Ls debt to £6,939.49 
and agree a reasonable  repayment  plan if Mr L
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L accepted  my provisional  decision and made  no comments for me to consider.
Specialist Motor Finance noted my provisional decision. In its response  it said that Mr L was 
not in a position to VT his agreement. It referenced the Consumer Credit Act 1974 stating in 
order for Mr L to VT his car he would have had to pay off half of the total amount payable  
immediately before termination.  But he hadnt  done so.
Ref: DRN16736013However it said if we wished to treat this as a VT not VS Mr L would  be liable for £7275.83 
not the £6,939.49 that I advised in my provisional decision.
It also requested that the £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience  be used to 
reduce the above debt.
I have considered Specialist Motor Finances comments  carefully.  I accept under a VT 
agreement Mr L was liable to pay half of the outstanding amount prior to termination. There  
is no dispute that Mr L didnt do this. But I dont  feel that is grounds to say the agreement 
cant now be treated as a VT one. 
I found, and have seen no evidence to change my mind, that the VT option wasnt discussed 
with Mr L. So on that basis  I dont think Mr L should  be disadvantaged now as he didnt 
make the correct payment at the correct time. I dont believe he knew  of the VT option or 
what it involved.
So I am still of the view that its more likely than not had all options been explained to him 
that Mr L would have chosen the VT one. And so its fair that option  applies now.
I dont feel that Specialist  Motor Finance has given me any new evidence  or information to 
take into account. So on that basis I see no reason to change  my provisional  decision.
In terms of the outstanding payment due my figures and Specialist Motor Finances  figures  
vary slightly. The monthly repayment figure  as Specialist  Motor  Finance has correctly  stated 
was £355.83 not £353.83 as I stated in my provisional decision.  Also I hadnt noted that the 
payment Mr L made in November 2017  had been  taken back. So on that basis I agree that 
the correct amount Mr L now owes under  the VT agreement is £7,275.83  not £6,939.49 as 
stated in my provisional decision. I apologise  for the discrepancy on my part.
I have noted Specialist Motor Finances request  that the £500 compensation be off set 
against Mr Ls outstanding debt. This payment is for distress and inconvenience. I think  its 
up to Mr L how he wishes to use the money.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Specialist Motor  Finance  should:-
-reduce Mr Ls debt to £7,275.83 and agree a reasonable repayment plan if Mr L
cant pay this off in a lump  sum
- Pay Mr L £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Ref: DRN16736014Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1673601