K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax,  (Halifax) mis-sold them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI). 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs L bought  the PPI in 2000. They were first sold a policy when taking a mortgage. 
That policy started  with the mortgage and was cover  on Mrs L only.  It was replaced a month  
after it started by a policy offering cover on Mr and Mrs L jointly.
Subject to the policy exclusions and limitations,  the PPI offered  cover  for accident, sickness  
and unemployment.  The first policy cost around £46 and the second initially £49.40 a month. 
For a successful claim, the PPI offered to pay Mr and Mrs Ls monthly mortgage payment 
plus 25% - a benefit of £760.80 when  the first policy  started. When  the second policy started, 
the full benefit was £815.23  half would be paid for a successful claim on Mr L and half for a 
successful claim  on Mrs L.
Mrs L was employed at the time of the sales as a public sector manager and had been there 
ten years. Shes told us she was entitled to redundancy pay and sick pay of six months  full 
pay followed  by six months  half pay. Mr L was employed at the time in engineering and has 
told us he was entitled to less than six but at least  three months redundancy pay and sick 
pay of six months full pay. Apart  from their work  benefits, Mr and Mrs L have told us they 
didnt have any other means,  like savings,  to pay the mortgage  with if they couldnt work. 
From what  theyve told us, at the time of the sales Mr and Mrs L were  in good health  and 
hadnt had any health issues. 
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ls representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs L wouldnt  have  
taken the PPI and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ls representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The PPI only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; 
The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the most 
common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the PPI was of inherently  poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio.  The 
common law duty of utmost  good  faith means Halifax should have told Mr and Mrs L 
about the poor value; and
Ref: DRN11248382The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs L and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The information Mr and Mrs L received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with it for several 
reasons. In particular they said they didnt  need  the PPI because of their sickness  and 
redundancy cover packages  and they said they only had it because  they were pressured 
into getting it, with the inference they wouldnt get mortgage without PPI.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
The PPI was sold in 2000 before the sale of general  insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
The PPI was sold during a period of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN11248383The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take these codes into 
account when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ls case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. Ive also taken account of relevant law 
in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to negligence,  misrepresentation and 
contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give advice with 
reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law relating to the duty of utmost  good faith; and 
the law relating to causation  and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable  rule of law or 
relevant judicial  authority.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
The PPI was sold before  insurance mediation  became  a regulated  activity,  so Halifax was 
required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance when  
considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN11248384-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs L with reasonable  care and skill  
in particular, whether  the PPI was appropriate  or suitable for them, given  their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the PPI and significant limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ls 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs L and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs L know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. In what they sent us with their complaint, 
Mr and Mrs L said they had no interest in PPI and said it was just included as part of the 
package with their mortgage.  Theyve since said they only took it because  they were  
pressured into it, with the inference they would not get the mortgage without PPI.
When Mr and Mrs L signed  to apply for the mortgage, they also signed a box in the PPI 
section of the mortgage application to say that they wanted  the PPI. Also,  Mr and Mrs L 
signed to a separate application  form to apply for the PPI policy  with joint cover. Both these 
things in my view support  the idea that the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs L as something 
separate from the mortgage  and the box on the mortgage application form supports the 
idea that the PPI was presented as something  Mr and Mrs L had a choice about taking. With 
all this in mind, while I give Mr and Mrs Ls recollections about this some weight, on balance  
Im not persuaded the PPI was just included as part of the package with their mortgage. It 
looks to me more like the PPI only set up after Mr and Mrs L signed to say they wanted it.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs L have said about  being pressured  or led to 
believe they had to take the PPI to get the mortgage. I give Mr and Mrs Ls recollections 
some weight. But Ive nothing to else to make  me think Halifax misled  Mr and Mrs L into 
thinking they wouldnt get their mortgage  without PPI. Also,  Mr and Mrs L already had the 
mortgage when  they signed to take the second  policy (replacing the first which ran for one 
month)  so, as their mortgage had already started at that point, I dont think it likely they 
wouldve thought  they wouldnt get the mortgage without taking that policy.
With all this in mind, on balance what I have doesnt persuade  me that Mr and Mrs L took the 
PPI because they inferred they had to have it to get the mortgage  or were pressured  by 
Halifax by an implication  to that effect. Taking everything into account, I think its more  likely 
Mr and Mrs L knew the PPI was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Ref: DRN11248385Halifax says it gave  advice when it sold the PPI. Mr and Mrs L havent said whether  Halifax 
gave advice or not. But if Halifax did give advice,  Halifax had to do more. With all this in 
mind, I think  its fair to proceed on the basis that Halifax  gave advice.  This means  Halifax  
had to advise  Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the PPI was 
appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know exactly what was discussed about  the PPI. Halifax had some information about  
their financial  circumstances as part of the mortgage  application   for example their salaries 
and employment  statuses. The application  form for the second  policy  suggests Halifax  for 
that policy also established Mr and Mrs L were both in permanent employment, working at 
least 16 hours a week, werent  aware of any impending unemployment  and hadnt been  to a 
doctor in the previous 12 months for anything  that wasnt minor. But Ive nothing  to show 
specifically that these things were established  before Mr and Mrs L took the first policy.  
Also Ive nothing to show that Halifax asked Mr and Mrs L about their work redundancy pay 
or sick pay entitlements. With all this in mind, while the documentary evidence suggests  
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the PPI was a suitable recommendation, I dont 
think Halifax did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable  and to establish Mr and Mrs L had a 
need for it. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs L given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not the PPI was ultimately  suitable  
for them. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs L had a need for the PPI. Even allowing for their work sick pay and their 
redundancy benefits, its likely  Mr and Mrs L would suffer  a drop in income if either of 
them were to have  become  unable to work for an extended period. For example, from 
what theyve told us, work sick pay after six months of sickness  would halve for Mrs L 
and stop for Mr L. The PPI benefit would help them manage the consequences  in those 
situations  bearing in mind also that they didnt have any savings to fall back  on. Also,  
by helping with their mortgage payments and related costs, for any period during which 
Mr or Mrs L were  still receiving sick pay or had redundancy  pay left, the PPI benefit 
would help them preserve that pay for other  uses  and at what  could be a difficult  time if 
Mr or Mrs L were  unemployed or too sick to work.
-Mr and Mrs L met the eligibility criteria  for the PPI.
-The monthly cost of the PPI appears  to have been affordable  for Mr and Mrs L.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the PPI unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs L. There 
was nothing about Mr and Mrs Ls employments or occupations which  wouldve made it 
difficult for them to claim.  Mr and Mrs L havent  told us about  having any pre-existing  
medical conditions,  but the PPI terms didnt exclude disability claims arising from 
pre-existing health issues anyway.
Ref: DRN11248386-The PPI would only pay benefits for a maximum of 24 months for each claim. It would 
only pay for disability  if Mr or Mrs L were unable to do his or her own or any similar  job 
and unable to do any paid work  his or her experience, education or training reasonably 
qualified him or her to do. But the PPI still provided valuable  cover in their circumstances  
given the loss of income they could  suffer  if either of them couldnt work for a prolonged 
period and the role the PPI benefit  could play in helping  them  in that situation.  Also,  the 
PPI helped protect payments, and related costs, of the mortgage on Mr and Mrs Ls 
home  and so I bear in mind  the potential consequences were  Mr and Mrs L to have 
become unable to make payments  on a loan secured against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the PPI to enable them to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take the PPI.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs L were given a broad description of what the 
PPI was intended to cover  (that is, it would help protect their mortgage payments by paying  
a share  of its benefit if Mr or Mrs L were unable  to work through  accident, sickness  or 
unemployment) and of the approximate costs. I have reached this conclusion because  I think 
its unlikely Mr and Mrs L would have  taken the PPI without any sense  of what  it was for and 
how much  the premium might be.
Also, their mortgage  application called the PPI Accident, Sickness and Unemployment 
Insurance and called  it Mortgage Repayments  Insurance above where they signed  for it. 
And when  they took the second policy the application form they signed told them  the benefit 
would cover the monthly mortgage payment plus 25% - and told them what  the cost would 
be for a given benefit (each would vary in line with variations  in the mortgage  repayment).
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations or about the actual cost and monthly  benefit 
before Mr and Mrs L agreed to take the PPI. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs L, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the PPI it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to Mr and Mrs L. Im not persuaded Halifax  gave them all the 
information they needed about the PPI to make an informed decision about  whether to follow 
the recommendation and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ls. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN11248387-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ls representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs L about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good  
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs L have suggested.  And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs L? To what extent  did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this PPI to Mr and Mrs L. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs L 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the PPI, had Halifax done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
PPI it recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I have found the PPI was ultimately 
suitable for them. In those  circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Mr and Mrs L 
have suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had 
explained things  properly, Mr and Mrs L would have acted differently or whether they would 
have taken the PPI in any event. 
Mr and Mrs L say they wouldnt have taken it and believe  I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully. Deciding whether to follow advice to 
take insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a number  of factors  before  deciding 
whether to proceed. Effectively  the consumer  has to weigh up the advice to take the PPI, the 
cost of doing so given  the benefits  offered  in return and the potential consequences  they will 
suffer if they do not have insurance,  should the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs L had some interest in taking PPI. By this I 
mean, when Halifax  advised  them there was a suitable product they could buy that would 
help protect their mortgage payments  if they were unable to work because  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment, they concluded they wanted that product. But they made that 
decision based on incomplete information,  meaning  what they thought  they were  getting  is 
not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances 
when they bought the PPI that the PPI was not fundamentally  wrong or unsuitable for them. 
Although I consider it more likely than not they knew they would have to pay something  for 
the PPI, it doesnt  appear Halifax told Mr and Mrs L the exact premium at the point they 
Ref: DRN11248388applied for the PPI. Having said that, Mr and Mrs L were told what the cost of the second 
policy would be for a given benefit   giving them an indication of the sort of costs involved.  
So if this, or the actual  cost when they started  to pay for the first or second policy, had been 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might  have 
raised that with Halifax at the time or reconsidered  their decision. They did change  things 
after paying  one premium for the first policy  but the change  was to go from single to joint 
cover, rather  than to discontinue cover. Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs L would have 
found the cost unacceptable if they had been  given the exact figures when they agreed to 
the PPI.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs L would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely their expectations 
about what the PPI would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  their 
whole mortgage  payment  if they both couldnt work  or a share of it if one or the other  were  
off work) were significantly different  to what the PPI actually did. If anything, as there was an 
additional cash payment, it is more likely  than not the PPI in the event of a joint claim would 
pay more than Mr and Mrs L wouldve expected.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs L thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The PPI contained  limitations on claims relating to back and mental  health  conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The PPI limited, and in some situations excluded,  unemployment  cover  for those who 
werent permanent  employees;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr or Mrs L be unable  to do his 
or her own or any similar job - and be unable to do any paid work his or her experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified him or her to do; and
The PPI protected  payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the PPI 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs L from taking  the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the PPI 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. They  were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
they wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  they were both in 
permanent employment  for example and the PPI didnt exclude claims related to pre-existing  
health issues (although Mr and Mrs L didnt have  pre-existing health conditions anyway).
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr and Mrs L might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to 
be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs L from taking  the PPI, Mr and Mrs L, in their circumstances, 
still had some good reasons to take it.
Ref: DRN11248389If Mr and Mrs L had known  they could only claim for disability if Mr or Mrs L were  not only 
unable to do his or her own or any similar  job but also unable to do any paid work his or her 
experience, education or training reasonably  qualified him or her to do, it might  have played 
into their thinking about  what to do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  
but given their circumstances I think on balance they would still have been interested in 
taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs L any claim they made  would be limited to a 24 month 
period. This may have  differed from what they expected and might  have hoped  for. But their 
work sick pay entitlements were less than even 12 months full pay and their redundancy 
entitlements were  also likely significantly less than 12 months income. With that in mind, I 
consider it likely Mr and Mrs L wouldve  still thought PPI that paid out for up to 24 months  
would be of benefit and help them manage  the consequences should Mr or Mrs L be unable  
to work in the circumstances  covered by the PPI. The PPI allowed for multiple claims to be 
made, could help reduce Mr and Mrs Ls outgoings at what could be a difficult and uncertain 
time if Mr or Mrs L were  unemployed  or too sick to work, and could help reduce  the chances  
of their home being placed at risk in that situation.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs L would still have taken the PPI. It was suitable  for them,  sufficiently close to 
what its likely they thought they were  getting  and provided benefits  that would help them 
manage the consequences  if either one of them  or both became unemployed, or unable to 
work due to accident or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider it more  likely than not 
Mr and Mrs L wouldve taken the PPI in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs L believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the PPI. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN112483810Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs L in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the PPI. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible they wouldnt  have taken the PPI, I am satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken the PPI had they 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the PPI they were buying.  So Im 
not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude Halifax  
should pay Mr and Mrs L compensation,  as that would put them in a better position than they 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mr and Mrs L think Halifax misrepresented the policy  terms in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ls representative  says a court might take if 
it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs L and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs L in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1124838