K820x#14complaint
Miss C and Miss B have complained that Miss Cs car insurance claim is still open with 
Markerstudy Insurance Company  Limited, even though  Miss C has received a settlement 
payment. Miss C is the policyholder and Miss B is the named driver. For ease, I shall only 
refer to Miss C throughout.   
background
In June 2018, Miss C took out comprehensive  insurance cover for her car with Markerstudy. 
Unfortunately, Miss C was involved in an accident in July 2018. After informing Markerstudy 
of this accident, they commenced their investigation and informed the third-party  insurer 
(TPI) that they believed their insured was at fault.
As Miss Cs car was deemed to be beyond economical repair,  Markerstudy arranged for her 
claim for her car to be settled. And Miss C also received compensation from the TPI for her 
injuries and her excess. A few months later, the TPI informed Markerstudy that they believed  
Miss C was at fault. Some time passed, and Miss C continued to chase Markerstudy for 
updates. They then informed her in February  2019  that they were going  to instruct solicitors 
regarding her claim. 
In June, Miss C raised a complaint  with Markerstudy, as they hadnt  instructed solicitors yet. 
She felt they were  only taking action, when she chased them for updates.  It was at this point  
that Markerstudy instructed solicitors. In response  to Miss Cs complaint, Markerstudy  
offered £100 compensation  for the overall service shed received.
Unhappy with this, Miss C has brought her complaint  to us. She feels  it is not reasonable or 
legal for Markerstudy  to keep her claim open  after it had been settled by them  paying out for 
her car. She is also unhappy to learn  this will affect  her premiums. Miss C would like the 
settlement to be honoured and for the fault  claim to be removed from her record. 
Alternatively, if this is not possible, she would like Markerstudy to pay the difference between 
her renewal premium of £2768.81 and the cost of a new policy if the fault  claim was not on 
her record.  Miss C has said she has quotes for between  £1200 and £1600.     
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint and explained when an insurance provider 
may record a claim as a fault  claim. Markerstudy has since informed us that they had 
agreed to settle  the claim on a 50/50 basis, but the TPI withdrew this offer. Markerstudy  
have however recorded this as a non-fault  claim as Miss C had recovered all her uninsured 
losses.
Miss C does not agree with our investigators  assessment. She now believes that she should 
be paid for the amount of time she has spent on dealing with the issue,  based  on her current  
hourly employment rate. This has therefore  been passed to me for a final decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Cs confusion with regards to the claim  still being open. Markerstudy will 
not be able to close the claim  until liability  has been  settled. As Miss C has received a 
Ref: DRN14951902financial settlement from the TPI, she believed the matter was closed. However, the 
settlement was a without  prejudice offer, and as such this is not an admission of liability by 
the TPI. 
It is my understanding that both insurers have instructed  solicitors,  and this is now being  
handled by them, and the case will be going  to court.  Markerstudy decided to record  the 
claim as a non-fault claim and allowed Miss Cs no claim  discount  (NCD)  as a gesture of 
goodwill. They have confirmed this will remain on the central data base for insurance claims 
(CUE). However, Miss C should be aware that if payments are to be made on the claim, this 
will show  on CUE. A non-fault claim is recorded  on CUE as a bonus allowed  claim and a 
fault claim  is recorded as a bonus disallowed claim.
Miss C is unhappy that her premium renewal quote was for £2768.81 with Markerstudy. 
However, I am aware  that she has taken  a new policy out with a different insurer  for 
£1908.68. Miss C has requested that Markerstudy  pay the difference  between  her increased 
renewal price and the quotes she says she had for between £1200 and £1600. But I dont 
think this would be a fair or reasonable outcome. 
I say this because,  as things stand, Markerstudy have allowed Miss Cs NCD, even though  it 
hasnt been able to recover their outlay  on the claim. And this means  her new insurer  should 
reflect Miss Cs NCD in what  they charge for her new policy. If Miss C has not already done 
so, she will need to explain  the situation  to her new insurer and allow them the opportunity  to 
amend the premium accordingly. 
I have noted Miss Cs view that she should  be paid her hourly employment rate for the time 
spent dealing with the issues around her claim. But we dont  typically  make compensatory 
awards for the complainants time spent, based  on their hourly employment rate. However, 
awarding reimbursement for any costs incurred,  such  as loss of earnings, is very different. 
That said,  I cannot see that this is relevant in these  particular set of circumstances. In 
considering the inconvenience caused and the time spent  on this, I must  consider the overall 
impact of the time spent on this and the appropriate compensation award,  if any.  
Markerstudy have acknowledged that the overall service provided  could have  been  better. 
They took a little longer  than necessary to instruct solicitors. However, the overall delay is 
not for this reason,  but due to the TPI disputing their insureds liability.  In such  
circumstances, it is not unusual, albeit frustrating, for the liability element of the claim to take 
a lot longer to be settled. 
Therefore, I think the £100 offered in compensation by Markerstudy for distress  and 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable. I appreciate this is not the outcome Miss C was hoping 
for, however I must decide  whats fair and reasonable for both parties. The £100 offered, 
also takes into account the inconvenience caused  for the initial delay in instructing the 
solicitors. So, I dont  think it is appropriate for me to award  any more compensation. 
Ref: DRN14951903my final decision
I am aware  that Markerstudy  Insurance Company Limited has made an offer to pay £100. I 
conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My final decision 
is that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited  should pay Miss C £100,  if they havent  
done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2020
Chantelle Sayles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1495190