K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, wont  refund to him the money  
that he paid for some  building works.  His complaint is made against Halifax under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
background
Mr W used his Halifax credit card in February 2018 to pay £2,988 to a builder for some  
building works. And he also made other  payments  to the builder including  a £2,000  bank 
transfer. He had some issues with the builder which he described in an e-mail to the builder 
at the end of March  2018 which itemised 25 issues.  In that e-mail  he said that unless all 
material were  delivered by noon  three  days later he would terminate the contract and begin 
litigation against the builder. The materials werent delivered so Mr W terminated the 
contract with the builder  and arranged for the building works  to be completed  by another  
builder. He then claimed a refund of the money  that hed paid to the builder from Halifax  
under section 75. But he wasnt  satisfied  with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that 
there hadnt been a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the builder. He thought that 
Mr W had cancelled the agreement very quickly and the relationship hadnt broken down to 
the point where  the builder didnt want to come back or wasnt responding to him and the 
builder wasnt given  the opportunity to complete the work.
Mr W has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. He says,  in 
summary, that the outstanding goods that hed purchased from the builder would never  have 
been supplied  because the retailer that sold him the kitchen had discontinued the kitchen 
and said that there  was no outstanding  order from the builder for those items. He says that 
the builders claim that the items had been  ordered  was false  and he wasnt given a refund 
and the goods and services werent supplied.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Ws complaint about Halifax,  I 
must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the builder 
and that Halifaxs  response to his claim under section 75 wasnt  fair or reasonable. Im not 
determining the outcome  of Mr Ws claim under section 75 as only a court  would be able to 
do that.
There were clearly some issues with the building works and Mr W was concerned about the 
works being satisfactorily completed.  He itemised  those  issues in an e-mail that was sent to 
the builder at the end of March 2018.  I have reviewed those issues  and can understand 
Mr Ws frustration  and concern. But Im not persuaded that those issues are enough  to 
amount to a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the builder.
Mr W ended  that e-mail  by saying that he required delivery of all outstanding materials  by 
noon three days later  and that if that didnt happen he would terminate  the contract and 
Ref: DRN10207672start legal proceedings against  the builder. That three day period was a weekend and a bank 
holiday  and I dont  consider that it was fair or reasonable  for Mr W to set such a deadline. 
And Im not persuaded that it was fair or reasonable for Mr W to terminate the contract when 
the builder didnt comply  with that deadline.
Mr W has provided evidence from a retailer which he says shows that the outstanding items 
hadnt been ordered and wouldnt  have been available. But thats not the reason that he 
terminated the contract and Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence  to show that the 
builder wouldnt have  been able to fulfil the contract if itd been  allowed to continue  with the 
works. But Mr W terminated the contract  and arranged for the works to be completed by 
another builder. And Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show what  items 
had been supplied, and what services had been  performed, by the builder.
Im not persuaded that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the builder. 
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  
Halifax to refund to Mr W the money that he paid to the builder  or to take any other action 
in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1020767