K820x#14complaint
In 2018 Mr M had a motor  insurance policy with Markerstudy Insurance  Company Limited. 
He says that after an accident it gave  him poor service and paid a fraudulent claim.
background
Mr M was reversing  his car in a car park when his tow bar came  into contact with the wing of 
a passing car. The other driver pointed out damage  that Mr M thought  was old. He said there 
was no damage to his car. Markerstudy  instructed  an independent engineer to inspect 
Mr Ms car. Its own engineer then reviewed the evidence  and concluded  that the damage to 
the other car was consistent  with the incident  Mr M had reported. 
Markerstudys counter-fraud  team also considered the case,  given Mr Ms concerns, but it 
found no evidence  of fraud. Markerstudy paid the other drivers damage  but didnt tell Mr M 
first, as it had agreed to do. Mr M said hed reimburse Markerstudy £743.30  for the claim in 
order to retain his no claims discount  (NCD). But he had to make  several  calls to ensure 
that happened. Markerstudy accepted that its service had been poor in some respects. It 
offered Mr M £75 compensation and later raised  that to £150.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ms complaint to us. He noted that Mr M had 
accepted he was at fault for the accident and that his car had come into contact with the 
other car. He thought the evidence was such that it was reasonable for Markerstudy to 
conclude it would be difficult  to defend  the claim.  As Mr M didnt accept the investigators  
view, his complaint  was passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr M accepts that he was at fault, and that his tow bar touched the other car, the dispute 
is about the extent  of the damage the other driver  claimed  for. Mr M doesnt think his car did 
any damage. The independent engineer  said there was only £6 of damage to Mr Ms car. 
But that doesnt mean there was no damage to the other car. 
The independent engineer noted that Mr Ms tow bar was black, and that Mr M had accepted  
there were black marks on the other car in the relevant area. He said the colour transfer 
could be from the tow bar. He also measured the height of the tow bar and its cap. 
Markerstudys engineer  reviewed the independent  engineers report  as well as considering  
the photos and other  evidence provided by the other drivers insurer. In my opinion, it was 
reasonable for Markerstudy to decide  after that to pay the claim.   
The other insurer was threatening to take legal action. So the only option for Markerstudy 
other than settling the claim would have been for it to defend  it in court.  Insurers  dont 
generally do that unless they think theres  more  than a 50% chance of success. We think  
thats a reasonable approach to take.  
In this case, there was no doubt  that Mr M was at fault. And there  was damage to that part of 
the other drivers car that Mr M said his car had come into contact with. Mr Ms car was blue 
- and the marks on the other car were black  but the independent engineers findings 
showed the discrepancy could be explained  by colour transfer  from the black tow bar on 
Ref: DRN19245012Mr Ms car. In these  circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Markerstudy  to conclude 
that it couldnt argue successfully in court that Mr M wasnt responsible  for the damage.  
The independent engineer measured the height of the tow bar. Markerstudys engineer  didnt 
comment on that specifically. But he said the damage was consistent with the accident 
circumstances. I think  its more likely than not that he only reached  that conclusion  after 
considering all the evidence. We checked the height specification  for the other car, which 
seemed to show that the tow bar would have been level with the damage. And when we 
asked Markerstudy recently  for further comments on the damage claimed for, its senior 
engineer said it was all in the correct  area and at the correct height.    
I think it was fair for Markerstudy to rely on the findings of an independent engineer  and its 
own engineers.  It also checked to see if there  were any indications  of fraud before deciding 
to settle the claim. Although I dont think Markerstudy was wrong in taking the action it did, I 
can see why Mr M was so concerned about  the claim, especially given the lack of damage to 
his car. I think that was understandable. I can also see why he was upset by some of 
Markerstudys service. But I think it acted reasonably in offering him compensation for that. It 
follows that I cant uphold  Mr Ms complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1924501