K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2007. Mrs M says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs M says that to the best of her knowledge, she applied for her card by post, and she 
wasnt aware that PPI was optional, or that it had been applied  to her account.  However,  
Barclays has provided information that shows Mrs M applied  for her card and policy over the 
internet.
Barclays has also shown that its sales process  at the time presented  the policy as optional  
and that Mrs M wouldve had to make  a choice before completing her application.  I havent  
seen anything to suggest that Barclays did anything differently with Mrs M when she applied  
for her card.  And I think that Barclays made it clear that Mrs M didnt need to take out the 
policy, but she chose  to do so, although  I can understand why she cant  remember  this as it 
was over ten years ago.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs M got the information she needed  to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mrs M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN17955602my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1795560