K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained about  advice  given by Key Retirement Solutions Limited 
(Key) to take out an equity release mortgage. The complaint  has been conducted by Mr L on 
behalf of himself and his wife.
To settle  the complaint Mr and Mrs L want  their equity release mortgage of £425,000 
cancelled and replaced with a loan of £200,000 with a further drawdown option  of £225,000. 
They also want compensation for the unnecessary stress and worry experienced while 
sorting this problem out.
Mr and Mrs L also want another financial adviser unconnected with Key, a Mr E, to pay them 
compensation.
background
The events giving rise to this complaint took place in 2018.  At the time, Mr and Mrs L had an 
interest-only mortgage on their home, with about  £151,000 outstanding which was due to 
mature in January 2022. They had no repayment  vehicle for the loan. The house was worth  
about £1.7 million. 
Mr L was aged  57 and Mrs L was aged  55. Mr L earned £33,000  pa and Mrs L earned 
£9,600 pa, so a total income of just under £40,000, or approximately £2,900  per month.  In 
addition to the mortgage, Mr and Mrs L had credit card debts of about £11,000 and a car 
loan of about £7,000.  Their monthly outgoings on all their debts was about  £1,110  per 
month, or about  40% of their net income.
In April 2018 Mr L was looking for a way to raise funds to repay the mortgage,  and discussed 
his situation with Mr E, who he knew through a local business network. Mr E was an 
independent financial  adviser.
In an email to Mr E dated 13 April 2018  Mr and Mrs L explained that the property was on the 
market for £1.75 million  and although moving  was the priority, they both liked the house  
and what with the cost of moving and redecorating  a new home  we want to explore  equity  
release and stay where we are.
I note from the email chain between  Mr L and Mr E that initially  a meeting to discuss  options 
was intended  to be just between them, but after Mr L and Mrs L confirmed  they were looking  
at equity release,  a meeting was arranged with Key for 23 April 2018.  Thats  because  Mr E, 
although a mortgage adviser, was not accredited  to sell equity release products. He knew  
Keys adviser, and so set up the meeting between Mr and Mrs L and Key, which Mr E also 
attended. Keys adviser did not previously  know Mr and Mrs L.
Before the meeting was arranged Mr and Mrs L were told by their lender that the mortgage 
still had over three years left to run but Mr L confirmed  this does not change the need for 
[Mrs L] and I to speak to [Key]  Mr E noted in response that he was aware Mr and Mrs L 
still wanted to discuss equity release.
The meeting  took place  on 23 April 2018  between Mr L, Mr E and Key. Because  Mrs L 
wasnt present on 23 April 2018, a second  meeting was arranged  on 1 May 2018 between 
Mr and Mrs L, Mr E and Key. 
Ref: DRN12670012On 3 May 2018  Key provided an illustration of an equity release mortgage from an equity 
release lender, LG, showing how much Mr and Mrs L could borrow against  the value of their 
property. This was not, as Mr L suggests, a mortgage offer. In fact, it states  this in bold type 
on the front page of the document.  In his covering email dated 3 May 2018, the adviser  went 
through the key features and discussed the pros and cons  of a drawdown scheme (where 
funds can be withdrawn  as and when needed) and a suggested that an application should 
be made and Mr and Mrs L agreed to proceed  on 9 May 2018.  
The application was proceeded  with on 9 May 2018.  Mr and Mrs L have produced  a letter  
dated 30 May 2018 from the lender (LG) with a loan offer of £433,500.
It was a requirement of the lender that Mr and Mrs L had their own independent legal advice. 
They appointed a firm of solicitors, A, to act for them.
On 20 June 2018 Key produced its recommendation report. It is worth quoting  from this 
document in detail, in relation to the parts that are relevant to this complaint. (The report  also 
contains information which the adviser  was required to provide in relation to other aspects of 
the product,  but as these  are not germane to the issues complained  of, I do not need to 
repeat them  here.)
In relation to the information compiled  by Key about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances, the 
report says:
You are aged 57 and 55, and own your own freehold property with a confirmed  
valuation figure  of £1,700,000. At the time of completing my recommendation you 
were aged  56 and 55. You are looking to release  the maximum cash lump  sum from 
your property in order repay  your existing mortgage  with [bank], repay  an existing car 
loan and credit card,  take holidays and pay for the costs in arranging  your equity 
release and estate  planning advice.
Your target cash amount  is £185,275, and any funds  released in excess of this figure 
is for you to have the benefit of guaranteed  funds now.
I have advised  you against releasing funds where there  is no immediate need for 
these monies. This is because interest on your lifetime mortgage will be 
accumulating at a higher rate than the interest  on any investment or deposit based 
account, and therefore this will cost you and your estate  more over time.
As you have no immediate need  for these monies I have recommended  a drawdown 
plan and explained that this could cost you, or your estate, less over time as you can 
withdraw equity as, and when,  you need  it.
Additionally, [another lender] offer a drawdown  facility that is guaranteed  for 15 
years.
However, having considered this option, you have declined a drawdown  scheme  and 
are insistent you want to proceed on the basis of releasing funds now because you 
prefer the security and peace  of mind of having the certainty  of having guaranteed 
funds now without the bother of applying for further funds in the future.
Whilst you are aware that interest rates can change in the future,  you have taken the 
view that you believe interest rates are low compared to historical figures  and 
Ref: DRN12670013therefore you consider  releasing funds with no immediate need as a benefit as you 
are locking in funds now at a fixed  interest rate for life. You do intend  to eventually 
spend these additional funds on holidays,  and enjoying your eventual  retirement,  but 
want the funds  at your disposal now and whilst they are available  to you.
Mr and Mrs L only needed to borrow £185,275  in order  to repay all their debts, both secured 
and unsecured, have £9,000 for a holiday and cover the fees for the equity release mortgage 
and for estate planning.
Mr and Mrs L told Key they had £100,000  in other  assets. The report  says:
You have  discussed  and considered moving home  as a way of releasing the funds 
you require but have decided that moving home is not a viable option for you at this 
time.
You have  a total of £100,000 in savings, investments and money in the bank. Part of 
this (£20,000) is held as a short term emergency savings fund.
I have advised  you that I would  recommend that you use any existing emergency 
funds in excess of £20,000 first, and I have made you aware  that the interest 
accumulating on a lifetime  mortgage will grow  at a faster  rate than any deposit  based 
savings or investments, and could therefore cost you or your estate  more  over time. 
However you were insistent that you wanted to keep  your existing  investments  and 
deposit monies intact because you like the security and peace of mind  of having this 
sum of money readily available to you and do not wish to see this reduce.
The report  also says:
Important information  regarding your level of release
You will be withdrawing £433,500, immediately, plus a cash  back  payment of £8,670,  
and £3,005, paid to your solicitors on completion, and based on a confirmed 
valuation figure  of £1,700,000.
You should consider carefully the cost of releasing  some of the funds from your 
property if you have  no immediate need. Interest on your loan will be 
compounding at a rate of 5.65%, and the cost against the property will normally 
be higher  than any potential returns you may generate from either bank 
accounts or other investments. (my emphasis)
Where the maximum available loan has not been requested  as the initial  loan amount 
the difference between the initial loan and the maximum  amount (the 'Undrawn 
Portion') may be available for you to request in the future. You can apply directly  to 
[LG] to draw  such sums, in minimum amounts of £2,000, without the need for further 
financial advice. The availability of these drawings  is not guaranteed  and will be 
subject to the conditions at the time and considered on a case  by case  basis.
The report  also discussed Mr and Mrs Ls existing liabilities:
Repayment of your existing mortgage
Ref: DRN12670014To be eligible for an equity release scheme, you need to repay your existing 
mortgage. When assessing the suitability  of equity release, we discussed  the 
implications of re- securing your existing mortgage on your property which  were that 
you could potentially be increasing the value  and the term of the loan secured 
against the property. This could mean that you or your estate could ultimately be 
paying more back  over the term.
You did not feel that it was appropriate  to negotiate  a further arrangement  with your 
existing mortgage  provider because you want to reduce your monthly outgoings and 
therefore increase  your disposable income by re-paying  the mortgage.  You 
confirmed that you were happy  to proceed  with my recommendations and repay your 
debts using your equity release because you want to benefit from releasing further 
monies from your property to enable  you to achieve your financial goals, whilst 
reducing your monthly outgoings.
You are not aware of any early repayment charges in connection with your existing 
mortgage.
Repayment of liabilities
I recommended that you pay off your existing car loan and credit card debt,  as this 
will reduce  your monthly outgoings.  When assessing  the suitability of equity release, 
we discussed  the implications of securing a previously unsecured debt on your 
property which were  that you could potentially be increasing the value and the term 
of the loan secured against  the property. This could mean that you or your estate 
could ultimately be paying  more back over the term.
You did not feel that it was appropriate  to continue with your car loan or credit card 
debt because you want to reduce  your monthly outgoings, and therefore  increase 
your disposable  income,  by re-paying  the balance outstanding on both commitments. 
You confirmed that you were happy  to proceed with my recommendation, and repay 
these debts using  your equity release, because you want  to benefit from releasing 
further monies from your property to enable you to achieve your financial goals, 
whilst reducing your monthly outgoings. Your current loans/debts, excluding 
mortgages, total £18,000.
The report  also explains  the need  for Mr and Mrs L to have their own solicitor  to act for them.
Choosing Your  Solicitor
To complete your equity release application,  you need to appoint  an independent 
solicitor to legally  represent you. Your solicitor cannot provide any financial advice; 
however, they will advise on how your chosen product will affect you, explaining the 
costs and benefits of your plan and the implications of the legal documents  you will 
need to sign.
Equity release  is a specialist area within conveyancing  and has a different legal 
process to that which your normal solicitor may be used to. For this reason, we would 
Ref: DRN12670015always suggest that you use a solicitor with specialist  equity  release  experience,  
which offers  you numerous benefits:
A specialist  solicitor will have systems  in place to process cases  quickly and 
smoothly. This can often  be two weeks faster than a non-specialist.
Experience of equity  release will mean  a solicitor is familiar with the 
paperwork required, allowing them to start on your case without additional 
research.
An experienced solicitor will be aware of the time and work involved in 
processing an equity  release  case,  enabling  them to accurately calculate  the 
cost for their service.
A specialist  solicitor will have in-depth  knowledge of the plans and will be able 
to explain everything  to you in plain English, with no jargon.
The solicitors below  each  have dedicated  equity release teams with a high level of 
knowledge, understanding  and experience  in this area. They invest  a lot of time and 
energy in putting clients at ease and listening to what  their clients want  to achieve. 
These solicitors are independent of Key and aim to ensure  all equity release 
customers can access specialist, impartial legal advice.
For your convenience, you don't need  to live locally to these solicitors for them to 
handle your equity  release  plan. Your application can be managed over the phone,  
by email or through  the post. You will be required to arrange one meeting in order  for 
your signature to be witnessed;  however,  you could  arrange this with a local solicitor 
(or at home  if necessary).
The adviser then goes on to list five firms of solicitors (three  in England & Wales). Mr and 
Mrs L instructed one of the listed firms, A, to act for them (and indeed had already instructed 
A by the time the report was prepared).
Mr and Mrs L signed the letter of recommendation on 26 July 2018, confirming they had read 
and understood  the contents of the whole report,  accepting the basis  on which  the product 
worked and that they were happy  to proceed  with the advisers recommendation. 
I note that Mr and Mrs L had met with the solicitors  on 16 June 2018. The solicitors  
completed the required certificate  for the lender confirming  they had explained the terms and 
implications of the equity  release mortgage to Mr and Mrs L and in particular, drawn their 
attention to the following:
Mr and Mrs L might wish to discuss the matter with their beneficiaries  because  
repayment of the mortgage will reduce the proceeds of their estate on their deaths;
the amount  of state benefits Mr and Mrs L may be entitled  to receive (now or in the 
future) may be reduced if they go ahead with the equity release mortgage;
Mr and Mrs Ls obligations  to maintain  and insure the property;
the circumstances in which the lifetime  mortgage becomes repayable;
that Mr and Mrs L agreed to proceed with the mortgage as being suitable for their 
requirements, based on advice given by Key.
Mr and Mrs L also signed this form to confirm the advice that had been given to them.
Ref: DRN12670016Mr and Mrs L say another mortgage  offer was issued by LG on 25 July 2018, for £433,000. 
The final mortgage  offer was issued  by LG on 1 October  2018.  It provided for a cash  lump 
sum of £425,000  to be paid to Mr and Mrs L at a fixed  interest  rate of 5.45%. In common 
with equity release  mortgages no monthly repayments are due; instead  interest  rolls up and 
is compounded  over the life of the loan. The loan is repayable on the death of the last 
surviving borrower, although it can be repaid  earlier in certain circumstances, subject to any 
early repayment charge  (ERC). The mortgage  offer sets out the circumstances in which  the 
ERC will apply and the exceptions to this.
The equity release mortgage completed and Mr and Mrs Ls interest-only  mortgage with their 
previous lender was repaid on 18 October  2018.  On 25 October 2018 Mr and Mrs L had a 
meeting with what he describes as the IFA person (not Mr E or the adviser  from Key, but 
another IFA). Mr L says that it was this IFA person who told him that he had made a 
mistake in borrowing  the full amount. A complaint was made  to Key on 11 December 2018.
Mr Ls complaint can be summarised as follows:
he and Mrs L were  originally interested in equity release  to pay off their mortgage, 
but were told this was a one off opportunity to pay off all their debts and take further 
money out of the bank to invest.
they were told that with the borrowed money invested, they would be likely to make 
more from the investment than they paid in interest on the roll up element of the 
mortgage;
they werent advised about the implications of repaying their short-term unsecured  
debts from the equity release, or drawing  £9,000  for a holiday;
they had £100,000 in savings and could have  used  £27,000  of this to pay for a 
holiday and to clear  their unsecured debts, leaving them with £73,000 in the bank.
they were hoodwinked into taking out the additional £249,000 to invest because  
the value of investments can go up as well as down and if I kept it on deposit  I would 
be making a 4% loss a year on this money.
Key didnt uphold  the complaint. It was satisfied that the advice was suitable, based on the 
information provided by Mr and Mrs L about  their circumstances, needs and wishes.
Dissatisfied with Keys response, Mr and Mrs L complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator  looked at the complaint, but he didnt think it should  be upheld.  He 
was satisfied that Mr and Mrs L had had several months after theyd received the 
recommendation report on 26 July 2018 until the mortgage completed on 18 October 2018 
to decide whether or not they wanted  to proceed.  
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the investigators  recommendations. Mr L has made  detailed  
comments in response,  the most  relevant  of which I summarise  below.
Mr L disputes that there was a period of reflection between 26 July 2018  and 18 October 
2018. Mr L has put forward the following hypothetical scenarios which  he believes would 
have happened  if he and Mrs L had decided not to proceed:
He and Mrs L would have contacted Key (before the mortgage completed) and Key 
would have reacted  as they have  reacted  now.  They would have said we discussed  
and signed a document on 25 July agreeing to borrowing  the full amount. There is 
Ref: DRN12670017nothing we are prepared to do to stop the process. You need to complain to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
More than likely, Mr and Mrs L would have  continued at that point  and waited for the 
money to arrive, and then may have complained once theyd spoken to the IFA 
person. Not complaining immediately to the Financial Ombudsman Service  would  
only have strengthened Keys  case.
With Key refusing  to stop the process, Mr and Mrs L might have spoken to the 
solicitor, who would have  said Youve signed  paperwork  on the 19th June  agreeing 
to borrow the money.  (A date before signing the recommendation report.)  If they had 
managed to stop the process, we would still have  had cost from them  to pay.
If the solicitors had not been helpful, Mr and Mrs L might have spoken to the lender 
directly and again we are sure they would have said You have signed paperwork on 
the 19th June agreeing  to taking the full amount. 
Given that two legal  documents had been signed (Keys report  on 26 July 2018  and 
the agreement to borrow the money  from [LG] on 19 June, the reflection time never  
happened and is certainly not available between July and October .
Mr L also raises  concerns about the procedures and processes adopted by Key and has 
made detailed  comments  about what he perceives to be failings in the process that was 
followed.
Because Mr and Mrs L didnt accept  the investigators findings, it falls to me to make  a final 
decision on this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
I will begin by explaining  that this complaint is solely about the advice given by Key. Ive read 
and noted Mr Ls concerns  about  Mr E, but Mr E is unconnected  with Key and so is not a 
party to this complaint.  
Ref: DRN12670018I have seen the emails  provided by Mr L showing his exchanges with Mr E in April 2018.  I 
have also seen an email  from Key to Mr E in which  Key summarises  the content  of a 
telephone conversation Mr E had with Key about  his recollection of events.
I have some documents from the lender, but not all. Nothing turns  on this, as the complaint 
is not against the lender.  I have  relevant  documents  from the lender, including the mortgage 
offer.
I must also explain  that the Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt a regulator. We have no 
power to supervise Key or oversee the running of its business,  including the processes it has 
in place or the supervision of its employees. Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  So although Ive noted everything Mr L has said about  what  he considers 
to be shortcomings  in Keys business operations, this is not within  the remit of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
was equity release a suitable  option? Ive noted that, even before Mr and Mrs L met with 
Key, they had discussed equity release with Mr E. So Im satisfied Key did not initiate the 
sales process; rather, it was Mr and Mrs L who did so.
Mr and Mrs L had an interest-only mortgage  with just a few years left to run, and no 
repayment vehicle.  The mortgage repayment was £326 per month but they were  paying 
nothing off the capital. They also had unsecured debts of around £18,000, with combined 
repayments of around £782 per month. Mr and Mrs Ls net monthly income was £2,900, so 
just over £1,100  per month was spent on these outgoings..
Mr and Mrs L were  concerned about  their mortgage  term coming to its end. Ive thought  
about what other options might have been available to Mr and Mrs L. 
Mr L told Key that he and Mrs L had assets of about  £100,000, but when asked to provide  
confirmation of this by the investigator, Mr L noted that his savings were much lower  than 
hed thought. The total amount of the investments was substantially  less than £100,000, and 
some of their money was tied up in bonds, or was in the form of pension assets not yet 
realised.
Given this, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs L didnt have the liquid resources  either to pay off all or 
part of their mortgage, or to clear their unsecured  debts.
Monthly income was £2,900, but the property had a substantial amount  of equity in it  about  
£1.6 million. Mr and Mrs L were what is known as asset rich and cash  poor  meaning that 
all their wealth was tied up in the equity in their home.
Ive thought about whether or not Mr and Mrs L could have remortgaged  onto a repayment  
basis to pay off their mortgage  over a ten-year period (to coincide with Mr Ls state  pension  
age). Ive looked  at the deals currently on offer with their previous mortgage lender. 
A repayment mortgage of £150,000 on a ten-year term with the first five years  at a fixed  rate 
of 1.72% would cost around £1,361 per month.  In addition to that, the unsecured debts 
would add another £782 (at least until the car loan was repaid). So remortgaging without 
consolidating the unsecured debts  would mean  Mr and Mrs L would be spending  about  
£2,143 of their £2,900 income  on servicing their debts. So I dont think  that this would have 
been an affordable option  for them.
Ref: DRN12670019If Mr and Mrs L had borrowed  sufficient to clear their unsecured debts (so an additional 
£18,000 on top of the £150,000), a ten-year mortgage on an initial  five-year  fixed  rate of 
1.72% would cost them  around £1,525  per month. This would be more  than 50% of their net 
income and so I think its unlikely a mortgage lender would consider this to be an affordable  
option either.
In the circumstances, the options available to Mr and Mrs L were  very limited. They were 
clear that they didnt  want to sell their property, and so Im satisfied that equity release  was a 
suitable option for them.
sale of the equity  release mortgage:  There are two conflicting versions of events about 
what happened during the sales process. 
Mr and Mrs L say that Key urged them  to take the maximum  amount of equity out of their 
property, promising them that the return they could get on investing the surplus would offset 
the interest roll-up on the equity release.
Key disputes  ever making  any such recommendation, saying that Mr and Mrs L were 
insistent on drawing down  the maximum amount at the start. Key points to its 
recommendation report highlighting this.
I also note the email from Key to Mr and Mrs L (and Mr E) on 3 May 2018.  In this email  Key 
says:  You wanted  to discuss the possibilities  of releasing equity in order  to repay  the 
mortgage you have  on your property, repay some other unsecured debts and have further 
funds available  for your own use as and when required..
The email  goes on to discuss the pros and cons of taking an initial release and then having 
an open-ended drawdown facility (with  subsequent drawdowns being at the prevailing rate of 
interest at the time), or of taking a lump sum in a single release, knowing that the interest 
rate would not then change.
Nowhere in that email  is there any suggestion  that Key advised Mr and Mrs L to withdraw  
additional funds  to invest, or that they were told the interest they could earn on any 
investment would offset the mortgage  interest..
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory, I have to base my decision on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened, based on the available  evidence. This is known as the 
balance of probabilities. This is the way in which we (and the courts)  are required to decide 
cases where there are two competing versions  of events. 
So I have  looked  at what other  evidence  is available.
First there  is the equity release questionnaire compiled by Key from which  the 
recommendation report was prepared. On balance I think  the questionnaire was populated 
with answers given by Mr and Mrs L. This shows that Mr and Mrs L had asked to draw down 
the maximum amount  and I am persuaded it is an accurate  reflection of what  was discussed 
at the time. 
I also cannot ignore  that on 26 April 2018, after the meeting  Mr L had with Key and Mr E on 
23 April 2018, Mr and Mrs L emailed Mr E. The email says:
Ref: DRN126700110Thank you for the visit the other  day. We are not convinced  equity  release  is the 
right move for us, given our age.
Can we explore a Bridging  loan, which I understand is based on house value and % 
release and a roll up on the interest, but only lasts 3 years.  I also understand we 
could keep the old loan as well as taking  this one so would have 2 mortgages on the 
house. We think this is the best option and keep  the house on the market and move.
In response, Mr E provided details  about a bridging  loan of £481,665 (which included  
repayment of the existing  mortgage of £151,000). Mr E said to Mr and Mrs L:
Although I am doing further research, most bridging loan lenders will probably want 
you to repay  the [existing]  mortgage  (include it in the new loan) so they have the only 
charge on the property.
I still think equity release has some advantages, namely:
You dont have to re-finance at the end of 12 months (bridging loan),  if you 
have been unable to sell your property.
Gilt yields are low, so there  should  be no penalty to pay should you wish to 
pay back the loan early, upon  sale of your property.
It allows you to remain in your current property as long as you wish.
Do you think it is worth one more conversation with [Key]? If not, I sill pursue the 
bridging loan for you instead
From this exchange between Mr and Mrs L and Mr E, I conclude that before Key had its 
second meeting  with Mr and Mrs L (and Mr E) on 1 May 2018, Mr and Mrs L were  already 
exploring alternative means of raising  substantial sums over and above the £151,000 owing 
on the mortgage. Otherwise, there  is no reason why they would be asking Mr E to source a 
bridging loan of £481,665?
The whole crux of Mr and Mrs Ls argument is that they say Key told them  they could invest  
the surplus funds  at such a rate as to offset  the rolled-up  interest on the equity release. But 
that argument doesnt stand up to scrutiny if, even  before Key had met Mrs L,  Mr and Mrs L 
were looking  to raise over £480,000 on a bridging  loan.  
The available evidence is persuasive  that Mr and Mrs L were looking to invest,  and needed a 
way to raise the money for it, rather than looking to remortgage and being persuaded by Key 
to raise money to invest.
Crucially, I also have  a record of Mr Es conversation  with Key when he gave his recollection 
of events. Mr E is independent  of Key. He is not employed by Key and received no reward or 
commission in relation to Keys arrangement  of the equity release mortgage.  In fact, he was 
Mr and Mrs Ls adviser. If they had decided  not to go ahead with the equity release 
mortgage, its likely Mr E would have arranged a bridging loan of over £480,000 for Mr and 
Mrs L.
So given that Mr E is completely independent of both parties, Im satisfied that I can rely on 
what he told Key as an accurate record of what was discussed with Mr and Mrs L at the 
meetings with Key on 26 April 2018  and 1 May 2018. 
Ref: DRN126700111Key emailed  Mr E on 30 January 2019  after a telephone conversation  on the same date. The 
email says: 
I have summarised some of the key points/detail from our call regarding  [Mr and 
Mrs L] and their equity release complaint.  If you disagree with any part of the detail  I 
have summarised, please  let me know. If I do not hear back from you by 4 February  
2019 I will assume that my summary  is factually correct.

You confirmed that you were present at two appointment/meetings held at [Mr and 
Mrs L]s home, the initial meeting, where [Key]  completed the Equity Release 
Questionnaire (ERC/fact  find) and gained the clients objectives  with regards to 
releasing equity  from their home. And a subsequent  second meeting, when [Key]  
presented his recommendation in detail to [Mr and Mrs L]. You also confirmed that 
at no time during  both of these meetings did you hear our adviser  [name] advising 
[Mr or Mrs L] to release  extra funds  for the purpose of investment, or hear [Key] 
indicate to [Mr or Mrs L] that the extra borrowed money invested would be likely to 
make more than the amount of interest  on the roll-up element of the lifetime  
mortgage.
You had observed  during these meetings that [Mr L] was aware that he could 
repay/clear his loan and credit card debts by using  his existing savings  but he 
indicated that he would  prefer to have extra funds available for holidays and 
emergencies, etc. He also appeared very pleased  at the prospect of having an extra  
amount of disposable  monthly income  being produced from this action..
Mr E has not contradicted  the contents  of that email, so I am satisfied  I can rely on this as an 
accurate record of Mr Es recollection of what was discussed.
In all the circumstances, taking into account the available evidence and the recollection of 
the parties, the evidence supports Keys position   which is that no investment advice was 
given by Key, nor any representation made that interest earned on investments would offset  
the rolled-up  interest. 
Taking into account everything  Mr and Mrs L, Key and Mr E have said, the evidence is 
persuasive that the decision to take the full drawdown was that of Mr and Mrs L alone. 
I do not uphold  this part of the complaint.
could Mr and Mrs L have withdrawn from the transaction?  Mr L says that, even if he and 
Mrs L had, after reading Keys recommendations (as contained in its report  dated 20 June  
2018) decided not to proceed, they would  have been prevented  from doing  so by Key, the 
lender and their own (Mr and Mrs Ls) solicitors.
Its not ideal  that Mr and Mrs L didnt receive  this report until 26 July 2018. I would have 
expected Mr and Mrs L to have received this fairly soon after the meeting on 1 May 2018.  
But I do not think this caused any detriment to Mr and Mrs L, for the following reasons. 
The final mortgage  offer wasnt issued until 1 October 2018, and completion was more than 
two weeks after that. Given  this, Im satisfied  that Mr and Mrs L had twelve weeks within  
which to read the recommendation  report (which,  as I have  said above, contains clear  
warnings about  potential investment returns not exceeding interest  roll-up, and about 
Ref: DRN126700112consolidation of unsecured debts).  If, after doing  so, Mr and Mrs L decided  they didnt want 
to go ahead, they could  have cancelled the transaction  at any time up to completion.
Ive read what Mr L has said about the reasons why they felt compelled to proceed. Ive 
taken careful note of the hypothetical  scenarios in which  Mr L has set out in detail what he 
believes would have  happened if at any time after receiving  the report on 26 July 2018  and 
completing the mortgage on 19 October 2018, he and Mrs L had changed their minds.
I have to say that the situations  which Mr L thinks would have happened are somewhat 
fanciful and do not, in my opinion, bear any relation to what  actually happens  in these 
transactions. It is a fact that the borrower  can decide to withdraw from the transaction at any 
time up to the day of completion. No lender, solicitor  or mortgage broker can force a 
borrower to go ahead with a transaction simply because  a recommendation has been  made  
or an offer has been issued, even if the legal charge has already been signed.
In relation to Key, Mr L believes  that Key would have refused  to allow  him and Mrs L to 
withdraw from the transaction because theyd  signed the recommendation report  on 26 July 
2018. Mr L describes  this as a legal document , but I am satisfied it is nothing  of the sort. It 
doesnt create any contract or obligation on either  party to go ahead with the transaction.
One of Mr Ls concerns  was the amount of fees hed be required to pay if he withdrew from 
the transaction. But on 3 May 2018 Key confirmed the following in an email  to Mr and Mrs L:
The only payment you are required to make prior at the start is an administration  fee 
of £139. Solicitors  fees are likely  to be in the region of £750-£1,000 and are only 
payable on completion  so if, for any reason, you do decide not to proceed, then 
the only payment you would have  made up to this point would be £139. (my 
emphasis)
So other than the lenders  valuation fee (which  is outside of the control  of Key, as it is paid to 
the lender and is generally non-refundable), Mr and Mrs L would only have been  £139 out of 
pocket. As Mr L has quoted from that email in his other submissions, Im satisfied  he would, 
or should, have  been aware  that he would not have incurred any additional expenses  if he 
and Mrs L had changed their minds  before  completion. In the circumstances, I do not find 
that there  is any basis for Mr and Mrs Ls contention that they were  not given any time to 
reflect, and that they felt compelled by Key to proceed with the transaction.
I do not uphold  this part of the complaint.
conclusions: I appreciate that shortly after taking out the equity release mortgage, Mr and 
Mrs L regretted their decision. I dont  know whether  they have invested the surplus funds, for 
example in bonds, stocks or other investment vehicles, or in purchasing an asset  such  as a 
buy-to-let property or in some other  way. Its up to them to take advice on how best to use 
those funds.
But after taking account of all the evidence and arguments, I have reached the following 
conclusions:
Im satisfied  the equity  release mortgage  was not mis-sold;
I find the decision to draw down the full amount of the equity release was that of Mr and 
Mrs L and that Key did not play a part in this decision;
Im satisfied  Key did not give Mr and Mrs L advice about  investing any surplus funds;
Ref: DRN126700113Im satisfied  Key did not compel Mr and Mrs L to go ahead with the transaction against 
their will or their wishes.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means  that will I will not be engaging in any further consideration of the merits of the 
complaint nor any discussion with the parties about it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1267001