K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Al Rayan Bank  PLCs  process  for reinvesting into an account is 
misleading and lacks transparency.
background
Mr L says he received a letter from Al Rayan about his fixed  term deposit. He says the letter  
told him he could call Al Rayan to confirm if he wished to reinvest with it but when he called 
he was told he needed to book an appointment. Mr L says the letter  is misleading and lacks  
transparency and hes spent some time bringing  this issue  to Al Rayans attention.
Mr L would  like Al Rayan  to acknowledge its process was wrong  and misleading and pay 
him appropriate compensation.
Al Rayan  says the letter it sent Mr L was a standard letter which it tries to keep objective. It 
says its process is to ask customers  to make an appointment before  reinvesting but says it 
will provide  feedback to its relevant department about its standard  letter. Al Rayan doesnt 
accept making a mistake.
Mr L brought his complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
accepted the letter  didnt  say an appointment was needed but thought  Al Rayan had dealt 
fairly with the complaint by saying  it would look at its contents.  The investigator thought we 
couldnt tell a business to change its letters or processes as we are not the regulator  of 
banks and building societies.
Mr L doesnt accept  that view and says he and other  customers of Al Rayan will be 
disappointed at the investigators  view. Mr L says there can be no dispute that his complaint 
has been time consuming and so he should receive compensation for that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr L will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about whats  happened.
I have looked  at the letter Mr L was sent by Al Rayan and I accept there is no mention that 
an appointment is needed before an application  for reinvestment can take place. I appreciate 
what Mr L says that such information  should  have been in the letter.  But as the investigator 
has explained we are not the regulator of banks and building societies and so I cant fairly 
tell a business how it runs that business or what information it includes in its letters.  Im 
satisfied such matters  are for, as in this case , Al Rayan to decide  upon when exercising its 
commercial judgment and not something  I can fairly interfere in.
Im satisfied that Al Rayan has acted fairly by indicating that it will look at the letter again but 
for the reasons Ive explained I cant tell Al Rayan to do that or order  that the letter  be 
changed. And whilst I appreciate that Mr L says other customers  of Al Rayan will be 
concerned, that is not something  I can fairly comment  on as Im only dealing with Mr Ls 
complaint.
I appreciate that Mr L says hes spent some considerable time dealing with this complaint 
and so he should be awarded compensation. I have explained that I dont think  Al Rayan has 
Ref: DRN11625292made a mistake and in any event I think Mr L was told what its correct process was, to 
arrange an appointment, when he called it. So I think at that stage it was up to Mr L to 
decide if he wished  to make that appointment or as he has now said he will do, invest his 
money in a different business. I also think that if Al Rayan  had included  the information about 
the appointment in the standard  letter then the effect would have been the same, that Mr L 
would have had to make  that appointment before being able to reinvest.  
Overall Im satisfied that Al Rayan has dealt  fairly  with this complaint and for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont  think in the circumstances  that compensation is justified or that Al Rayan 
should apologise to Mr L as he would  like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1162529