K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement  with           
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance (FirstRand). 
background
Mr A was supplied with a car under a hire purchase  agreement in 2014.  He paid £21,500 for 
the car which was four years  old and had driven  around 62,000 miles.  In 2016 the engine  
failed and required replacing. In a previous complaint brought  to this service by Mr A about 
the quality of the car it was decided  that the fault did not mean the car was not of satisfactory 
quality.
Since then,  Mr A has had the engine replaced along  with some other repair  work.  When 
doing this he discovered the engine that was taken out of the car was different to the one 
recorded in the cars  log book (also known  as the V5 document). He said this shows he was 
misled about the car at the time it was supplied and that it wasnt of satisfactory quality.
I issued a provisional decision in October  2019 where I explained  why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr As complaint.  I said:
Mr A has already received a final decision from this service relating to the quality of 
the car he was supplied  with. So Ive considered whether the new evidence  Mr A has 
given us since that decision changes anything. 
In doing so I have taken  into account  what the relevant law says about  satisfactory  
quality. FirstRand supplied the car to Mr A in May 2014. The relevant law from the 
time  The Supply of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973  implied terms into Mr As 
contract with FirstRand that the goods  supplied  were of satisfactory quality. What is 
satisfactory quality is measured by what a reasonable person would regard as 
satisfactory, taking into account the description,  the price and all other  relevant 
circumstances  which I think  in this case, would  include things such as the age and 
mileage of the car. 
Mr A has given  us both a V5 document for the car showing one engine number and a 
picture of a different engine number on the engine that was taken  out of his car. So it 
looks like the engine  in the car has been changed  at some point. Its not clear exactly 
when this happened or who did it. But Ive not seen anything that leads me to think  it 
was done after Mr A acquired the car. 
Its not clear how old or how used  the replacement engine was and a trace  with the 
DVLA and the manufacturer  has not provided any information about this. The report 
from the garage that fitted Mr As new engine says the one it took out showed signs  
of heavy wear and tear and seemed like it had run more than the trip display.  But 
theres not much detail  about why this was the case or how old the engine  might 
have been. 
And in any event, like the ombudsman  that decided Mr As previous complaint 
concluded,   Mr A was still able to use the car for around 40,000 miles over two years  
before the engine  failed  and the total mileage covered  by this point was around  
105,000. So, I dont  think the fact the engine in the car was a replacement rather  than 
Ref: DRN15439212the original changes the conclusion that the car was of satisfactory  quality. I dont 
think it makes  it any more  likely there was a fault present or developing with the 
engine at the point of supply. And given  the age of the car and the miles it had 
covered by the time the engine failed, I dont think it means  the car was any less 
durable than it should  have been  either. 
I recognise what Mr A says about whether the mileage recorded on the digital 
dashboard is reflective of the actual  mileage the car, or the engine,  may have 
travelled. Its my understanding  that the odometer does not need to be changed on a 
car if its engine is replaced. And Ive not seen anything that makes me think the 
odometer had been tampered  with before Mr A took the car to reduce the displayed 
mileage. The MOT  history for example does  not contain any mileage discrepancies 
which might  suggest the vehicle  had been clocked.  
Mr A says he was misled about  the car and he would not have entered  into the hire 
purchase agreement  if hed known it didnt have  the original engine in it. Its difficult 
to know exactly what Mr A wouldve  done had he been told this at the point of supply. 
Nevertheless, it is a DVLA requirement  that a change of engine  is registered with it 
and recorded  on the cars  log book and this requires  some  form of audit trail to verify 
where the engine  has come  from. The log book  for Mr As car shows  a different 
engine number to the one Mr A replaced.  I think this was information that would  have 
been material to Mr As decision to take the car and should have been made clear. 
So I can understand why Mr A feels misled about  the car.  
I think its likely Mr A wouldve been put off from entering into the hire purchase had 
he been given  clearer information about  the car. So Ive thought  about the loss this 
may have  caused  Mr A. While I think the starting point would be how best to put Mr A 
in the position hed be in if the replacement engine  had been pointed out to him, I 
dont think its as simple in this case as saying Mr A wouldnt  be out of pocket at all. 
Things have moved  on considerably since the point of supply. For example Mr A has 
had use of the car and driven  over 40,000 miles in it so it wouldnt be fair if he didnt 
pay for this use. And he has sold the car since bringing his complaint to us so hes 
recovered some of the cost of it back  although I recognise this wasnt  as much as 
Mr A wouldve  hoped for.  
So, Ive considered the extent Mr As losses come from either  the use he got out of 
the car, or things he might ordinarily  have expected to repair in the course of that use 
given the cars age and mileage. This is because I dont think  it would be fair to say 
FirstRand is responsible  for these  things. I wouldnt consider them to be losses that 
directly flow from any potential misrepresentation of the car in this case.  
Mr A has kindly given  us evidence of the cost of the new engine he purchased  and 
the cost of the labour  for fitting it and what look to be some ancillary parts to the 
engine. Ive thought very carefully  about  whether FirstRand should be responsible for 
these costs. But I find that Mr As losses in this respect stem from the failure  of the 
engine. And I have to keep in mind the ombudsman that looked at Mr As complaint 
concluded the engine failure  didnt make the car of unsatisfactory  quality.  Ive also 
said earlier  in this decision that the fact the engine was a replacement doesnt 
change this conclusion.  So overall  I think Mr As losses  here relate to repairs  he 
might reasonably have  had to carry out on the car during the use he had of it. I 
wouldnt therefore expect  FirstRand  to meet these costs.
Ref: DRN15439213The same can be said I find of the other work  Mr A has given us invoices for. One 
invoice dated  15 September 2017  is for what looks like oil and filter changes. This 
was three  years after Mr A took the car and its not unreasonable to expect this kind 
of work to be required on a car that had travelled 40,000 miles on top of the 62,000 it 
had covered before supply. 
Another invoice  dated 15 September 2017  is for a replacement  turbocharger.  It looks 
like this was fitted  around a similar time to the new engine. But its not clear  why this 
needed replacing and theres  no reason on the invoice.  And similar to the engine, 
given the mileage of the car at the point of supply, the time Mr A had it and the 
mileage he had travelled  in it by this point Ive not seen enough to make  me think  this 
is something that made the car of unsatisfactory quality. So again this looks like the 
kind of repair  that might be required in the normal use Mr A had of the car and I dont 
think it would  be fair to require FirstRand to meet  the cost of it. 
Mr A says he made a loss on the car when he sold it in May 2018. And he attributes 
this loss to the things  that went wrong  with the car described above. But between the 
ombudsman that looked at Mr As previous complaint and I, weve  concluded that 
FirstRand doesnt have  liability for these particular  issues. So it wouldnt be fair to ask 
it to make up any difference in value between what Mr A achieved  when  he sold it 
and what industry guides  might  have suggested  he could have achieved. 
Furthermore, Mr A had replaced  the engine by the time he sold the car so the 
discrepancy that was in the log book when Mr A took the car is unlikely to have 
caused any loss of value he might have suffered on the car when he sold it. 
Mr A was unable to drive  the car during  the period he was waiting to have it fixed. But 
again as weve concluded the faults  which put the car off the road didnt mean it was 
not of satisfactory  quality,  I dont think I can fairly  ask FirstRand  to refund Mr As 
payments for the period he couldnt drive  the car. 
Mr A suggested recently that because the manufacturer  of the car has been  unable 
to identify the engine that was in it as one of its own, the engine wasnt  compatible 
with the car. But Ive not seen enough  to make me think that was the case. For 
example I havent  seen  anything linking the failure of the engine  with it not being the 
right one for the car. And I dont think Mr A would have been able to drive  the car for 
as long as he did if it had the wrong kind of engine in it.  
Lastly Ive thought about Mr As deposit and whether  it would be fair to refund this to 
him. Ive explained already the difficulty in putting  Mr A in the position  hed have been  
in had he been told about the replacement engine. Mr A had the car for four years 
and has sold it now. So I dont think it would be fair to return  his deposit in this case 
given the use he got from the car and the fact it cant now be handed back  to 
FirstRand. 
So, with all things considered, while I think Mr A probably was misled about  the car, I 
dont find his losses to be down to this given  everything that has happened since the 
point of supply.  So I dont think FirstRand needs to do anything further. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr A. And while  I know it will be of little 
consolation to him, I assure him this has not been a straightforward decision to 
make. 
Ref: DRN15439214Mr A did not agree  with my provisional  decision. He said,  in summary:
He disagreed with the decision of the ombudsman  that looked  at his previous 
complaint.
He does not agree with how I reached my decision that the car was of satisfactory 
quality given the age and mileage of it at the time of the fault and the price  he paid. 
There is clear  evidence  the odometer  on the car was tampered with and the mileage 
showing does not reflect  the actual miles the car has travelled. 
He is not in a better position as a result of selling the car. 
The additional work required to repair the car all related to the engine failure so he 
should be compensated for the cost of this. 
I didnt consider all the relevant legislation that I should have. 
FirstRand did not respond to my provisional  decision before  the deadline I set. 
The complaint has therefore been  passed back to me for final decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to say again that much of Mr As complaint about whether the car was of satisfactory  
quality was looked at by another  ombudsman in Mr As previous complaint. I recognise  that 
Mr A didnt agree with the decision. But it is not appropriate for me to comment on the same 
things the ombudsman considered in that complaint as the decision was final. 
I have instead  considered  whether  Mr As new evidence  since that decision showing the 
engine in the car was not the one on its logbook at the point of supply (and indeed  the 
evidence hes sent us since my provisional  decision) changes  anything. 
Looking again  at when the engine in the car failed, the car was six years old and had 
travelled over 100,000 miles  40,000 of those miles during Mr As ownership.  The 
ombudsman that looked at Mr As complaint previously  decided on those facts   and taking 
into account all of the other evidence available at the time  that the car was satisfactory at 
the point of supply. Ive still not seen anything that makes me think  the car having a 
replacement engine changes this conclusion. Its not clear enough the replacement engine 
was so much older or more used  than the original  or that this was the reason for the fault 
that caused the engine  to fail. 
I know Mr A says the car was also not of satisfactory  quality because  it was not how it was 
described in the log book  that came with the car. I still have no doubt  that Mr A would have 
been put off from the car had it been  made clear to him the engine in it was not the one 
recorded in the cars  log book. And I accept that the car was most likely misrepresented  to 
him for that reason. But as I explained in my provisional decision,  I must consider the extent  
to which  I can fairly  say Mr As losses result  from this given the way things have moved  on 
since the point  of supply. 
And, having done this, I still dont think I can fairly say that Mr As losses result directly  from 
any misrepresentation or from the car not meeting its description.  Rather,  I think they result 
from Mr As use of the car for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN15439215On this same point, Id like to reassure  Mr A that I was not in any way suggesting  in my 
provisional decision that he was better off as a result of selling the car. Just that I cant 
reasonably put the loss he suffered in this respect  down to the original misrepresentation 
given everything  that has happened since the point of supply. 
I have looked  again at all the invoices Mr A provided  for work he had done  to the car since  
the final decision on his previous complaint. I explained in my provisional  decision why I 
didnt think First Rand had to pay the cost of this work to Mr A. Mr A says the work all relates 
to the engine failure. But even if that were  the case, the previous ombudsman and I have 
already concluded that FirstRand is not responsible for the costs  of fixing  the engine.  So it 
wouldnt be responsible  for costs  which are linked to this either. 
Mr A says there is important  information I did not consider  in my provisional decision such as 
relevant provisions of the Fraud Act 2006. I must consider relevant legislation when deciding 
what is a fair and reasonable outcome. But I dont think the provisions of the Fraud Act 2006  
add anything to my conclusion because Id still have to make a finding about whether Mr A 
was misled about the car or not. And as I have explained  above, I already think  its most  
likely the car was misrepresented to Mr A.
Mr A has provided evidence from a vehicle  check service that there was a mileage 
discrepancy on his car. He says this shows the true mileage the car had travelled and that 
the odometer on the car must have been tampered with. Ive looked at the check. It shows 
the mileage on the car on 31 March 2014  as 623,000. The previous mileage recorded  on    
16 January 2014  was 60,222 and the mileage recorded on the car after this on 30 May 2014 
was 62,394. 
I do very much understand Mr As concerns that the report he has obtained shows a mileage  
discrepancy. But I think its most likely the recording of 623,000 was an error.  It seems 
extremely unlikely to me that between 16 January 2014 and 31 March  2014 the car would 
have travelled 562,778 miles. I think its more likely the other  mileage recordings both before 
and after this reading are the most  accurate reflection  of the mileage  on the car as they 
increase steadily each time between 2011  and 2018 and over 12 separate readings. Also, 
the official record of the cars MOT history on the GOV.UK  website  shows no 
inconsistencies. 
Ive thought also what Mr A said about  discoloration on the odometer.  But I dont think  this 
shows the mileage  recorded  on the cars  odometer was changed either given the overall  
consistencies Ive mentioned in the paragraph  above. So, overall Ive not seen enough to 
make me think the mileage displayed on the cars odometer was tampered with before Mr A 
was supplied with the car. 
I know how much this complaint means  to Mr A. And I know he is very disappointed with the 
findings I made in my provisional decision.  I recognise Mr A has gone to a lot of trouble to 
get some  of the evidence he has provided us with and I assure him I have looked at all of it.   
But having  looked again at everything, I havent  seen anything  that would lead me to reach  a 
different conclusion to my provisional decision, so Im not minded to change it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr As 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Ref: DRN15439216Michael Ball
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1543921