K822xcomplaint
Mrs Ds complaint is about the service provided  in relation to a boiler insurance policy with
Aviva Insurance Limited.
Aviva uses  agents to deal with claims on its behalf,  so any reference  to Aviva in this decision
should be read as including  those  agents.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in April 2020, part of which is copied below: 
Mrs Ds policy with Aviva  includes  an annual service of the boiler. Avivas engineer came 
out to service the boiler on 10 January 2019.  After he left, the boiler apparently lost pressure,
which suggested there was a leak.  Mrs D thinks the engineer did something to cause the
leak.
Aviva sent engineers out to try and find the leak. They couldnt find a problem with the boiler
and so other contractors  came to try and trace  the leak on the pipework. Avivas  contractors
also damaged  the underfloor  heating  while trying to locate the leak. I understand there were
a number of appointments with different contractors before a leak was found  and repaired
under the kitchen floor. There was also a leak from the boiler, which was repaired. Mrs D is
very unhappy with the handling of the matter. She has made  a number of submissions,
which Ive summarised below:
Aviva  failed to find the leak promptly. The boiler service engineer changed a number
      of parts on the boiler over the course of five days, before realising  this  was not the
      problem.  If he had isolated  the boiler he would have realised this sooner.
The engineer  didnt pick up that there  was in fact a leak on the boiler  until around
three weeks later and then there was a further  delay before Aviva  repaired this.
There was considerable unnecessary damage  to their newly laid floors  and walls also
due to Avivas inability to find the leak, which is going to cost around £5,000 to
replace as it cant be repaired.
There is a hole in the living room floor which was created after one contractor  said
that was where  the leak was but it wasnt. Then  four holes were cut into the kitchen
which was only completed 18 months before. Two of these holes were  in highly
noticeable places  but were 1.2m and 2.5 m away  from the leak.  Another of the holes
was made  in one of the kitchen cabinets  that was over 4m from the actual leak.
A hole was also made in the wall, as the leak could not be found (over 2.5m from the
leak). This was also unnecessary damage as the leak should have been more
accurately detected.
They were without  heating and hot water  for 29 days  in extremely cold weather (it
was frequently  below freezing at the time), which was extremely  difficult with two
young children.  They  had to use their neighbours washing facilities.  This was
because of Avivas failure to find and repair the leak promptly.
They had to run electric blow heaters, which cost around £4 per day during this time.
She and her husband had to make numerous  phone calls, and attend numerous
visits which caused disruption and loss of work.  Over 15 different representatives
from Aviva  visited  their home in the 29 day period the repairs took and on one
occasion having left work  early to attend a visit, the contractor didnt turn up. Many  of
these visits could have  been avoided if the work  had been done  properly.
Although the underfloor  heating pipe has been repaired the integrity  of the entire
Ref: DRN11371242system has been comprised, as there  is now a join in the heating  pipe where  no join
is intended, meaning it is now vulnerable to issues in the future.
Aviva said the leak would not have been caused by its engineer  when he carried  out the
service of the boiler, as he would not have touched the pipes that were leaking (as they are
located under the floor). He did top up the pressure  on the boiler, and this might  have then
identified the problem but it would  not have caused  it. Aviva says it proceeded to try and find
the leak because  it was not clear  initially if this was from the boiler or not but the policy held
by Mrs D does not actually cover anything other  than the boiler,  so it doesnt cover leaks  to
other parts of the central heating system. The work  done to trace this leak and repair it was
not therefore covered under the policy and it was not obliged  to do this.
Aviva says that the leak was found  under the floor in the kitchen.  Mrs D had signed a
disclaimer agreeing  to work being done to access and trace the leak and the access holes in
the kitchen were therefore necessary.  It was not found from the first holes made and so it
came back  out and then located it after making further access holes. It accepts that it did
initially think  the leak was in the living room  and a hole was made in the floor there, which
was not necessary but it says this was in a chipboard  floor under carpet.  The contractor
offered to go and replace the damaged  chipboard.
Aviva did send an assessor to survey  Mrs Ds property. He said the damaged  area of floor
could not be repaired. As it is continuous  flooring between the kitchen  and the hall, the entire
hall and kitchen floor would need to be replaced. Aviva therefore says that as the floor cant
be repaired  it would always have needed  to be replaced, even if it had not made the
additional holes  in the kitchen.
Aviva offered Mrs D £1,200 compensation for the time taken to resolve the leak;  the number
of visits Mrs D had to accommodate; the damage caused to the living room floor and the
underfloor heating; and the trouble  this caused  Mrs D and her family.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He thought that the contractors could have
taken off the skirting  boards in order to lift the floorboards up without cutting them, in order  to
access the leak. The investigator therefore determined that Aviva should  replace the entire
flooring.
Aviva doesnt accept the investigators assessment. It says it is not possible to lift the
floorboards in the way suggested  by the investigator, even if the skirting boards had been
removed. If there had been  a door bar between rooms, then the floor in one room could be
replaced more easily.  It is not always possible to identify immediately where  an underfloor
leak is coming from. When  it did find the leak it had to also make a further hole to allow a
replacement section of pipe to be laid. In any case,  as the floor would have needed to be
replaced, even if only one hole had been  made,  it is not reasonable to require it to pay for
this.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy doesnt  actually cover the repair of leaks to any part of the central heating system,
Ref: DRN11371243other than the boiler. There is no persuasive  evidence that the leak was caused by anything
Aviva did when servicing the boiler. The leaking pipe was under the floor and would not have
been accessible to the engineer that serviced  the boiler. As the leak was not caused  by
Aviva and is not covered under the policy, it did not need to do the work  finding it or repairing
it. However, it did so. And it still had a responsibility to do any work (whether covered or not)
competently.
It appears that an unnecessary access hole was made in the lounge. However, from the
reports provided to me it seems to be agreed  that the flooring in this room is chipboard, with
carpet over the top. There is apparently no damage  to the carpet and only the chipboard
below. Avivas contractor offered to replace this. Ive also seen that the surveyor  that
attended said this would  cost £25 to replace.
There were four more  access  holes  made  in the kitchen and in one wall. At least  two of
these were necessary  to locate and repair the leak. I have seen no persuasive  evidence that
they were not necessary or that they could have been avoided. While the other two holes
and the hole in the wall were not at the actual location of the leak,  Aviva has said it is not
always possible to pinpoint the exact location of a leak on the first attempt. Ive seen no
independent evidence that this was done negligently  or that it should and could have  been
possible to locate the leak on the first attempt in the kitchen.
The investigator suggested the skirting  boards should have been removed first. I do not
consider Aviva needed to do this but theres also no evidence this would have  made any
difference. Aviva has said the type of flooring could not have been  lifted  up floorboard by
floorboard in the way the investigator suggests. If it is a tongue  and groove fitting, then this 
would not be possible. Although the investigator thought this was a possibility, there
is no evidence this was possible.
Theres no clear evidence  therefore that Aviva  did anything wrong by making those holes in
an attempt to find and repair  the leak. However,  Aviva seems to accept that it should  have
been possible to avoid some of this damage. But Aviva also says that, even  if some  of these
holes were not necessary, the floor cant be repaired and would have needed to be replaced
anyway. Aviva asked a building surveyor to look at the property. This was on the early
assumption that the leak had been  caused  during the service  but this is not established,  as I
have explained  above. The surveyor did also say the floor couldnt  be repaired and would
need to be replaced in its entirety but that doesnt mean that it is Avivas responsibility to pay
for that replacement.
Most policies  that do cover water leaks in a central heating system,  would  not cover  making
good any access holes.  I do not therefore  consider  there  is any reason for Aviva  to have to
cover the cost of replacement flooring  in this case. It found the leak and repaired it (even
though it wasnt  obliged to) there  is no justification for it replacing  the entire floor and making
good the access holes as well.
However, Mrs D has also made the point  that the holes made where  the leak actually is are
in less prominent locations  than the others,  so implying  they  could either tolerate them or
patch them up without  such  difficulty as some of the others. I can see this point.
There were also some  avoidable delays in locating the leak under the floor and the leak on
the boiler. Not all the consequences of this are due to anything  done wrong by Aviva. Mrs D
and her family would  still have had a period of time without the boiler  working and there
would still have been some appointments required,  even  if everything had been done as
Ref: DRN11371244quickly as possible.  However, I agree that some additional avoidable and unnecessary
distress and inconvenience was caused by Avivas handling of the matter. There were
clearly some  delays, an appointment that didnt  happen, and the repairs could  have been
resolved sooner than they were.  This was clearly a difficult and stressful  ordeal for Mrs D
and her family.
Having considered all the evidence, I consider the sum of £1,700 to be appropriate
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by its handling of the matter (to
include the £1,200 already paid by Aviva).  This is to include  the additional time spent dealing
with the matter; the damage to the living room floor; that some of the damage to the kitchen
floor and wall might have been avoided; the additional time without heating and hot water;
cost of running the heaters, among other things.
Finally, Mrs D also says she is concerned about the integrity of the under floor heating
following the repair done by Aviva. There is no persuasive evidence that this repair is not
sufficient and so I do not intend to make any award  in relation to this.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Aviva  Insurance Limited to pay Mrs D the sum
of £1,700 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by this matter  (to include
the £1,200 already paid).
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
comments they want considered. 
Mrs D has confirmed that she accepts  my provisional decision and has not added  anything 
further. 
Aviva has also responded and confirmed it has nothing further to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or arguments,  I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision that Aviva is not responsible for the cost of replacing Mrs Ds 
flooring but should pay her some additional compensation. I remain of the opinion that the 
sum of £1,700  in total is appropriate compensation to reflect the time she spent dealing  with 
the matter; the damage to the living room floor; that some of the damage to the kitchen floor 
and wall might  have  been avoided; the additional  time without heating and hot water;  and 
the cost of running the heaters, among other  things.
Ref: DRN11371245my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs D the sum of £1,700 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by its handling of her claim (to 
include the £1,200 already paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1137124