K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained about the amount  charged by Vitality  Health Limited  for her private 
medical insurance policy.
background
Mrs C had held the policy for many  years. In recent  years,  Mrs C had become unhappy at 
the increases  in premium. At the 2018  renewal,  when her premium again  increased, Mrs C 
cancelled the policy. She noted  that over the time the policy had been in operation she had 
paid far more in premiums  than she had ever received back in claim settlements. She 
complained to Vitality  that the pricing  of the policy was unfair.
Vitality didnt uphold  her complaint. It confirmed that her policy had been  priced  correctly.  
Mrs C was unhappy with Vitalitys response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In her opinion, 
Vitality had acted fairly in the way it had priced  Mrs Cs policy.
Mrs C didnt accept the adjudicators findings. She thought that her premium  should reflect 
her claims experience and said the fact that Vitality might have needed  to settle large  claims 
by other  policyholders  wasnt her problem. She said the total value of premiums  which  shed 
paid outweighed the total claims shed made by a factor  of at least  six. She said that when  
she had made claims in 2016  it had resulted in a disproportionate increase in her premiums. 
She maintained that Vitality had treated  her unfairly.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
We generally take the view that it is up to an insurer to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its 
internal guidelines, it is a matter in which we dont generally interfere.
Vitality has explained  to Mrs C the factors which it takes into account in determining  
premiums. These include age because older policyholders tend to make more  claims. Up 
until the time Mrs C cancelled the policy  Vitality  also took into account an individuals  claims 
history through  a no-claims  discount (NCD) scheme  whereby  the premium was affected by 
the number of claims made in the previous year (though not their value).  I dont find Vitalitys 
approach to be unfair. It has provided evidence of how it calculated  Mrs Cs premium  each  
year and Im satisfied it has calculated this accurately. This included  the way Vitality applied  
the NCD following  the claims made by Mrs C in 2016.
Mrs C is upset that she paid out over six times  as much in premiums as she received back in 
claims over the time her policy was in operation. However, the nature of insurance  is that 
there are winners and losers. Some people who are fortunate  enough  not to need to 
make a claim will end up subsidising  others who have made claims. While an insurer  will, for 
Ref: DRN10706432commercial reasons, generally  try to charge a premium which  roughly represents  an 
individuals risk, it isnt obliged to make  sure that policyholders  pay no more  than they 
receive in benefit.  Ultimately, if Mrs C felt the policy wasnt  good  value for money  she was 
under no obligation to continue with it. She has now exercised her right to cancel.
In summary,  while I sympathise with Mrs C that her policy increased in cost in the way it did, 
I cant reasonably conclude that Vitality acted unfairly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mrs C to accept or reject  
my decision  before 23 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1070643