K820x#14complaint
Mr A has made a complaint that ActiveQuote Limited mis-sold  him two income protection  
policies. 
background
Mr A first took out policies with ActiveQuote in 2014  which were renewed  in 2015 and 2016. 
In November 2016 Mr A was unfortunately made  redundant  and claimed on the policies. The 
insurers didnt pay out as much as Mr A was expecting because  he had two part time roles.  
Mr A is unhappy because he says he thought he made ActiveQuote aware  of the two 
additional roles  he had. 
ActiveQuote looked  into what  had happened. In their final response  letter  they said they 
hadnt been made aware of Mr As additional roles during the sales process.  The only 
reference to the roles  was when Mr A had wanted to claim on the policy.  And he hadnt 
mentioned it again  at the point of renewal.  So they didnt think the policy  had been mis-sold  
as theyd acted  on the basis of the information  provided by Mr A during the renewal process.
Our investigator looked into what happened and listened to the calls between  Mr A and 
ActiveQuote. He didnt  uphold the complaint because he was satisfied ActiveQuote  had 
asked the right questions  at the point of sale and at each renewal. He acknowledged that 
Mr A had mentioned  his other roles  during  the life of the policies but noted that he didnt talk 
about them  during the sales or renewal  process. So he thought Mr A shouldve  made 
ActiveQuote aware  of this information at those points, rather  than when the policies were  in 
force. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said,  in summary, ActiveQuote  shouldve checked whether he still had 
two roles when the policies  were renewed. He said he didnt expect this income to be 
covered which  is why he didnt mention them during the sales  calls.  He says that the crux of 
his case is that ActiveQuote shouldve contacted the insurer to check whether hed still be 
covered, knowing  that he had additional sources of income. Mr A says he innocently  thought 
he had two policies  which would cover him in the event  of losing his main  source  of 
employment. So he asked  an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ActiveQuote gave Mr A advice about  the suitability of the income protection policies. So, the 
relevant rules and industry guidance say that they had a responsibility to ensure  that the 
policy was right for Mr A.
Im not upholding Mr As complaint because:
ActiveQuote were  entitled to rely on the information Mr A provided when making their 
recommendations to him at the point of sale and renewal.  When  Mr A first took out 
the policy he didnt  have any other  roles.  But at the point  the policies were  renewed 
Mr A didnt  mention  having other  sources  of income. So this isnt something 
ActiveQuote were  able to take into account  when making  their recommendation; 
Ref: DRN16425242Mr A has explained that as he didnt expect the additional sources of income to be 
covered he didnt speak about  them during  the sales calls. But, despite  relatively  
detailed conversations about  his salary and financial circumstances Mr A didnt 
mention his other roles; 
During the 2015 renewal Mr A didnt mention the additional roles. A few days after 
the policy was sold the insurer asked ActiveQuote to contact the consumer regarding 
redundancies being made by the company  hed said he was working  for. At the end 
of the call Mr A briefly mentioned the other  roles. But this was during a call relating to 
an issue highlighted by the insurer, rather than the main sales  call. So, taking  into 
account the overall circumstances,  I dont think its fair or reasonable to say 
ActiveQuote shouldve  carried out further checks based  on the information he 
provided after the point of sale; 
In 2016 Mr A contacted ActiveQuote about  a claim, querying  whether his additional 
roles would affect his benefit. They advised  him to contact the insurer  to discuss this 
in more detail  which was the right thing to do as the policy was in force;
Just a few months after the conversation where  Mr A was directed to speak to the 
insurer he spoke to ActiveQuote  about renewing the policy. During the call he 
confirmed there  had been no changes  to his occupational employer  although there 
had been a change in his salary.  The conversation was framed  around changes  
which had taken  place  in the last 12 months. And, as Ive outlined  above, no 
additional forms of income or employment  were  mentioned during the renewal 
process the previous year. Mr A told us that one of the additional roles  ended in 
May 2016 and he increased his income from the other source  in January 2016. So, 
its surprising Mr A didnt mention these changes, particularly as hed recently 
contacted ActiveQuote to ask about whether the additional role would affect his 
benefit. On balance, I think ActiveQuote took reasonable  steps  to ensure the policy  
was right for Mr A and acted reasonably on the basis of the information he provided; 
Mr A thinks ActiveQuote shouldve checked  the information on file and whether hed 
be able to claim. But, as Ive already  outlined,  the information  he gave about the 
additional roles  didnt ever form part of the core sales process. It wasnt 
ActiveQuotes responsibility  to keep the suitability  of the policy  constantly under  
review as their responsibility  ended  once the sales process came to an end. And they 
correctly directed Mr As query  about this to the insurer to deal with. 
 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision before 13 June  2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1642524