K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1988, 1991 and 2003. Miss M says Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Miss M didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen copies of some of the paperwork completed at the time 
of the initial  sale in 1988. Ive seen a separate PPI application form thats been 
signed by Miss M. So I think  that the PPI was presented as optional  and that Miss M 
chose to take it out. 
For the 1991 amendment to the policy Ive also seen a separate  PPI application form 
thats been signed by Miss M. In addition, Ive seen a copy  of a letter  dated  8 August 
1991 in which Miss M wrote to Halifax to ask for her level of cover to be increased.  
This disputes what Miss M has said about not knowing that she had PPI.
For the 2003 amendment,  copies of the paperwork completed arent available, but 
Ive also considered what we know more widely about how Halifax sold this type of 
PPI over a longer  period  of time.  I think  its more  likely than not that the PPI was also 
presented as optional in 2003 and Miss M chose to take it out. 
Although Miss M has said in a PPI questionnaire  it was automatically applied.in 
1989 when I was made redundant I was unaware I could claim on the policy  & did 
not. 
But as Ive already explained, I think its more likely than not that Miss M was aware  
that she had PPI, particularly because Ive seen evidence that she did try and claim 
on the policy on more  than one occasion.  Given the time thats passed since  this 
sale, its not unreasonable that Miss M may not remember  everything clearly now.  
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss M so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
Ref: DRN17925202also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said, but these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  
doesnt need to refund everything Miss M paid for it. But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) has already offered to give Miss M back some of the cost of the PPI  including any
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  after you took out a
further advance. I dont  think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) will make  arrangements to pay Miss M now Ive 
issued my final decision  if it hasnt already done so.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1792520