K822xcomplaint
Mr Ss complaint is about charges  hes been asked to pay by LeasePlan UK Limited 
(LeasePlan), trading  as Network.
background 
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
Mr S acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit 
agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr S responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition. He would be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear. He was also required to 
ensure the service  records  were completed and stamped (term 7.2.3) and hed have 
to pay LeasePlan  the amount they thought the value  of the car had reasonably  
reduced by if the service  history  was not evidenced (term 10.6.2).
The industry guidelines for what  is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British  Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage  that are provided  in the inspection 
report completed at handover. The adjudicator  has used  the correct guidelines and I 
would agree with his assessment of the damage charges to the bonnet, front 
bumper, mirror housing, alloy, door and rear bumper. Mr S has specifically queried 
the charges for the chip to the bonnet, but I think its clear  that primer is visible,  and 
the charge has therefore been reasonably made in line with the BVRLA guidance. 
Hes also queried  the damage charge for the mirror housing,  but I would agree that 
primer is showing and as a result I dont think its necessary to provide a 
measurement of the length of the scratch. This damage is also in excess of the 
BVRLA guidance on what is fair wear and tear.
Mr S was required to provide evidence of the services  that he had conducted.  The 
business explained that only a service checklist was left in the car. When  they 
interrogated the system  there was no digital  evidence  of the service being completed  
either. They explained the situation to Mr S in an email on 10 September 2019, but 
they say Mr S failed  to supply evidence of the service. 
On the other hand, Mr S has now provided the invoice and it seems clear the 
services were completed. He also disputes  the business argument that he didnt  
send them the invoice. 
Ref: DRN13632592I think, on balance,  the fairest solution would be for LeasePlan to reduce the service 
charge by 50%. Although Mr S has provided  evidence that the car was likely to have 
been serviced in accordance with the schedule, I think,  at the time the car was 
auctioned, LeasePlan would not have had enough information to evidence the 
service history. They would therefore  have been likely to have not been able to sell 
the car for as much as would have been possible if the service history  had been 
apparent.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell LeasePlan UK 
Limited to reduce the charge for the missing  services  by 50%.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1363259