K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined their subsidence  
claim on their landlord insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs Ks policy covers a residential property  they let to tenants. They made a claim for 
subsidence, but Ageas concluded  the issue had started before its policy was incepted. As a 
result, Mr and Mrs K made a claim with their previous insurer, The Society  of Lloyds (SoL).  
However, SoL concluded the issue had started after its policy  ended, and during Ageas 
period of cover. 
Ageas and SoL disagreed  about  which of them was responsible for the damage, and both 
declined the claims  that had been made. Mr and Mrs K were unhappy about this and they 
referred two complaints to this service   one against Ageas, and one against SoL.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint against Ageas, and she thought  it should  
be upheld. She concluded  that Ageas should  assume responsibility for the claim as per the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) Domestic Subsidence Agreement  and seek  a 
contribution from SoL. 
Ageas disagreed with our investigator. It said because the property is commercially  let, the 
domestic agreement doesnt  apply. It also said the evidence points towards the damage 
occurring before its policy started. Because Ageas disagreed, the complaint was then 
passed to me for a final decision.
On 2 March 2020,  I wrote  to Ageas and SoL with my intended decision. I explained although 
the ABI agreement doesnt apply  here,  both insurers  have accepted  subsidence is affecting 
Mr and Mrs Ks property.  As such, I said it was wholly unfair,  in my view,  that they had been 
left without any assistance having  held the necessary continuous cover.  I accepted each 
insurer had a right to defend its position,  and in doing so they were entitled  to rely on the 
findings of their appointed  specialists. However,  I said once the insurers  became aware 
there were opposing findings, they should have done more  to reach an agreement. But 
instead, Mr and Mrs K were simply left in an impossible position.
I also noted that having reviewed the reports and correspondence from the two appointed 
specialists, I found  neither  of the arguments  put forward to be more persuasive than the 
other.
I explained I needed to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and in my 
view, that meant Mr and Mrs K now having their claim dealt with as quickly as possible  the 
claim was first reported in 2017. I said given the opposing views from the two specialists, Im 
persuaded Ageas should simply  deal with the claim; and SoL should reimburse Ageas half 
the claim costs it incurs from this point  onwards. In addition, due to the extensive  delays, 
I said each insurer should compensate  Mr and Mrs K £500  so, this means in total they 
would receive £1,000.
I also said that if any of the parties wasnt prepared to agree to my proposed  resolution, then 
I intended to issue  a final decision on each case along these lines. I asked Ageas and SoL 
to respond by 16 March.
Ref: DRN17817172On 2 March, Ageas confirmed receipt of my email. On 9 March, SoL agreed to the proposed 
resolution and Ageas  was updated.  On 17 March, I chased Ageas for a response.  Four 
weeks have now passed since  I originally wrote to Ageas,  and a response hasnt been 
received. In the meantime, Mr and Mrs K have accepted my intended  outcome.
my findings
I have re-considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K, and SoL, have accepted the proposed resolution. Ageas has had four weeks  
to respond, and it hasnt done so despite  being chased. Given the delays already 
experienced by Mr and Mrs K, I cant reasonably  wait any longer.
I remain persuaded that dealing with the subsidence  at Mr and Mrs Ks property in-line with 
the ABI agreement, is a fair and reasonable outcome for all the parties involved.
In view of the delays, I also remain persuaded that Ageas and SoL should each compensate 
Mr and Mrs K £500.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  and in my earlier correspondence, I uphold  this 
complaint. My final decision is Ageas Insurance Limited should:
-assume responsibility for Mr and Mrs Ks claim;
-settle the claim subject to its policy terms;
-recover half the claim costs it incurs (from  this point onwards) from Mr and Mrs Ks 
previous insurer, The Society of Lloyds; and
-compensate Mr and Mrs K £500 for the delays
The Society of Lloyds has already agreed  to share  the claim costs, but for completeness, a 
final decision  setting out the above has also been  issued on that case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1781717