K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited wrongly sold him two unsuitable 
savings plans in 1990 and 1990  which needed to be retained for several decades to deliver  
a decent return.  He surrendered both around  three years later.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 29 January 2019.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Sanlam responded,  saying:
I said I could not see how a 25 year plan was 'a good idea'  when  other shorter  term 
and renewable plans were  available from its range and this was a central part of my 
reasoning for concluding that the sales were unsuitable
However, the minimum premium on its 10 year plan in 1990  was £70, almost three 
times the £25 per month Mr K was paying
By the time he took out the second £25 per month savings policy  in 1991 the 
minimum had risen  to £100
So in order to take out these  two policies he would have needed to pay £170  per 
month, £120 per month more than he was paying,  and so this would not seem to 
have been realistic
So the only product it sold which allowed him to invest on a regular basis and which 
would have been affordable was the ones  in question
Its advisors weren't required or authorised to provide whole-of-market advice. Given  
Mr K already had significant deposit-based savings and was saving via a building  
society account, committing  a total of £50 per month to more long-term investments 
doesn't seem unreasonable  - regardless of the highlighted quotes from the brochure
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Sanlam has not addressed  many  of the reasons why I argued that savings plans 
which required a minimum 25 year commitment  were completely  unsuitable  for Mr K, a 31 
year old single person  with no dependents   and no apparent need for the life cover was an 
integral feature of these policies. Nor has it disputed that the documentation was misleading.
As such,  I am satisfied that this complaint should  be upheld, and for the reasons I outlined  in 
my provisional decision  and with the compensation  as outlined there.
The fact that Sanlams advisors  could only recommend these long-term,  inflexible savings 
plans at the time as its 10 year plan required a higher premium is not justification for an 
unsuitable recommendation. If, as Sanlam, explained its advisors could not have sold Mr K a 
Ref: DRN15437562flexible 10 year savings  plan then, in my view, they should have said they did not have 
anything suitable.
I instruct Sanlam to compare the return Mr K achieved when he surrendered  these 
investments with what he would have got if hed invested the same sums in its 10 year 
(reviewable) savings plans. If this shows a loss it should add 8% simple interest per annum 
to this loss from the dates  of surrender to the date of settlement  of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Sanlam  Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay compensation 
as outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15437563Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr K complains that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  wrongly sold him two unsuitable savings 
plans in 1990  and 1990  which  needed  to be retained for several decades  to deliver a decent return.
background
Mr K was 31, single and owned his own home and was employed. He held £6,000 on deposit and 
was saving  £25 per month. His savings  plans started in October 1990 and March  1991 and were  fully 
surrendered in August  1994.
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel the complaint should be upheld.  He said the plans  were 
designed to give an optimum return after 25 years when  Mr K would  be 56 years old, a time when 
many families are managing  the costs of higher education. Also, the diagram didnt seem inconsistent 
with the description in the literature which  said your  savings programme is designed to grow steadily 
with the full benefit and worth being realised after about 25 years. 
Mr Ks representative disagreed, and said:
There was no requirement for two exclusively long-term contracts, both written to 65. While 
the diagram clearly points to medium term commitments  that the policy would meet, yet it is 
an exclusively long-term contract
The product brochure  compounds this by stating . to build a safety net of savings to help 
you cope with those unexpected and unbudgeted expenses which  afflict us all from time to 
time a sudden  family emergency. Repair bills for storm damage to your home or garden. 
Loss of income  due to accident or serious ill-health.Looking on the bright  side you will also 
want to build up your resources for more pleasurable experiences. That new car you have 
always promised yourself. An extension to your home. A retirement cottage or perhaps a 
holiday of a lifetime.  Or simply cash to provide your children with a flying start in life. 
This implies  the policy  can be used for short or medium term commitments despite  the 
charging structure making this highly inappropriate
This type of policy  was routinely sold as suitable for the medium term as it attracted far 
greater commission than the firms  10 year savings plan,  with misleading diagrams and 
advisers stressing the availability of tax free cash at the 10 year point
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In this case I agree with the complainants representative, and for the 
same reasons.
 
From what Ive read, the charging  structure only made this investment suitable as a long-term savings  
plan (25 years or more) so the advisor needed  to be fairly  certain that Mr K wanted to make such a 
long term commitment for it to be a suitable recommendation. 
Given Mr Ks situation - 31, single and with no dependents - I think it was unlikely that he could have 
been fairly sure that he wanted  to make a 25 year plus time commitment. While he was earning a 
good salary,  there  was no guarantee this would  continue or that future family commitments might 
change his financial priorities. So I cannot see how the advisor could reasonably have concluded this 
was a good idea, particularly when  other shorter term, and renewable, plans  were available at the 
time  and via the same business.
Ref: DRN15437564These would  have provided a comparable savings/investment opportunity without the very significant  
downsides of this plan. I also share Mr Ks representatives concerns  about  the brochure which  
references a variety of uses for this savings  plan, a number of which  are not, in my view, compatible  
with the long-term nature of the charging  structure.
I therefore  intend  to uphold this complaint and instruct Sanlam to compare the return  Mr K achieved 
when he surrendered these  investments with what he would have got if hed invested the same sums 
in its 10 year (reviewable)  savings plans. If this shows a loss it should add 8% simple interest per 
annum to this loss from the dates of surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Sanlam to pay compensation  as outlined  
above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1543756