K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr L says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Barclays had to make  it clear to Mr L that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr L says he wasnt  given  an option about  the PPI and wasnt aware it was added to his 
card.
Mr Ls application form for the credit card doesnt  mention PPI. Barclays records  show  the 
PPI started  around a week after the card. And Mr L has said the PPI was sold by phone. So 
it seems likely the PPI was sold during an activation  call for the credit  card.
Barclays has sent us a copy of the script  it says its advisors wouldve followed in calls like 
this at the time. And this instructs  the advisor  to ask whether the customer  would like to 
apply for the PPI.
Based on what I understand about  Barclays sales practices at the time, I think  its likely the 
call with Mr L would have  broadly followed this script. And so I think  its likely that Barclays 
did make  it clear to Mr L that he had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr L chose to take it.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr L, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. And, based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, Mr L doesnt appear to have been affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than Mr L has told us he 
wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant he didnt need to rely on his 
family or any savings  he had to make his repayments  if he wasnt  earning.
As well as checking it was right for him, Barclays had to give Mr L clear  information about 
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But, for 
the same  reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have been useful 
for Mr L if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put Mr L off taking it out.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr L, that 
was unfair.
Ref: DRN13969762To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1396976