K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains on behalf of Ms P that Killik & Co LLP failed to transfer her portfolio into risk-
free assets when  he, having power of attorney, instructed  it to do so in January 2018.
background
Killik upheld this complaint and admitted  it had not carried out his instructions. It compared 
the value of Ms Ps holding with its likely value if her money had been moved into its Private  
Investor Income Index  and said this showed  her discretionary portfolio had outperformed this 
index. It did, however, offer £500  for several specific failings.
Mr P brought the complaint to this service,  saying this index still contained risk-based assets 
contrary to his instruction.  Killik then compared  the value of Ms Ps portfolio  with its worth if it 
had been placed in risk-free sources,  using its Managed Fixed  Income  Services  return.  It 
said that while she would be £75 better  off, it had already offered £500 in compensation and 
felt more than covered  this potential loss.
An investigator at this service agreed this final calculation had been  fair. 
Mr P said this fund had a predicted yield of 5.45% per annum, which should be used to 
calculate potential  compensation.  The investigator  said this was solely  a projection and not a 
guarantee and didnt  reflect the actual current value of Ms Ps money  if it had been  moved  
into risk-free sources back in January 2018.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the same  reasons.
I asked Mr P if he had any additional  concerns about Kiliks calculations. He said that if I felt 
the compensation formula was now fair he accepted this but remained concerned  about how 
Kilik treated its elderly, often vulnerable clients.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P on behalf  of 
Ms P to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1230615