K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that American  Express  Services  Europe Limited (American  Express)  treated 
him unfairly  when it didnt  approve his request to help him reduce his credit  card balance and 
this has had a negative impact on his mental  wellbeing.
background
Mr M explained that he contacted American Express for help sometime in 2016  or 2017 and 
again in April 2019. He asked for a temporary reduction in his interest  rate or an interest-free 
period to help him repay his outstanding  credit  card balance.
Based on information  provided by American Express, this showed  Mr M contacted it in June 
2018 and again in April 2019. American Expresss customer notes show  that in June 2018  
Mr M asked  for the previous months interest of £482.06 to be waived  and American Express 
refunded this to his account.
The notes show he contacted American Express again at the end of April 2019. According  to 
the call notes provided by American Express, Mr M said he was he was struggling to chip 
away at paying off his credit card due to the interest  rate being so high. American  Express  
asked him for some information but based on the information he provided, it said he didnt 
fall into the category of financial  difficulties  so it wasnt able to help.
Mr M complained to American Express but it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr M doesnt think his financial circumstances were properly investigated to see what  help 
could be offered. He also thinks the phone call was frustrating and that at one point 
American Express incorrectly thought he was unemployed.  Due to the large outstanding 
balance on his credit  card he says this is affecting  his mental well-being.
Unhappy with American Expresss response, Mr M brought  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend his complaint should be upheld. The investigator noted 
that when Mr M asked in June 2018  for interest  of £482.06 to be refunded he noted  that 
American Express did this. He thought there  was limited  information about what else was 
discussed at this time so he didnt think American Express shouldve  done anything  more 
than it did. And looking  at Mr Ms account statements our investigator didnt think there was 
anything which should have led it to conclude  that Mr M was experiencing significant 
financial difficulties.
In terms of the April 2019 phone  call, our investigator thought American Express  had done 
enough to investigate Mr Ms circumstances and had enough  information  to conclude  that he 
wasnt experiencing financial difficulties.
Mr M disagrees with the investigators view. He says his complaint isnt just that American 
Express didnt ask enough about his situation  to understand what help was appropriate  but 
that it didnt listen  to him to understand the points  he was making.
Mr M made detailed points to our service. I wont repeat them here but in summary  he says 
hes only been able to make credit  card payments because hes used  his card to fund his 
day to day expenditure.  He also told us that hes spending more  on his card than hes able to 
repay. And he wouldnt use his credit  card if he had cash  available because of the high rate 
of interest.
Ref: DRN18357512In response our investigator acknowledged  Mr Ms credit card payments versus his spending 
on the card but he didnt  think this on its own this was enough to demonstrate  he was in 
financial difficulties.
Our investigator looked at the situations which would indicate  to a lender  that a customer  is 
in financial difficulties  as referred to in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC),  1.3. If the information  available to American Express  in April 
2019 showed Mr M was in financial  difficulties  then he would have expected  it to take 
positive steps  to help him but the information available  didnt show this was the case.
Mr M disagrees. He says hes using his disposable income to pay off his credit  card debt and 
then using his card for day to day living expenses. So he thinks this shows his inability to 
meet repayments out of disposable  income  or at all, for example, where  there is evidence of 
non payment of essential bills (such  as, utility bills), the customer  having to borrow  further to 
repay existing debts, or the customer only being  able to meet repayments of debts by the 
disposal of assets  or security".
Our investigator didnt  agree. He explained  that looking  at the activity  on Mr Ms credit card 
and the information hed given to American Express,  there was no suggestion that he wasnt 
in a position to pay his essential bills. And Mr Ms credit card statements  werent  consistent  
with what hed expect  to see of someone experiencing financial difficulties. He also noted 
that Mr M had told American  Express that hed recently been promoted  and this would 
indicate an improvement in his financial circumstances.
He appreciated  the points Mr M made but it wouldnt be possible to make a further  
conclusion about  whether  Mr M was struggling financially without visibility of his wider 
financial situation and he didnt think it was necessary for American  Express  to have this to 
reach the conclusion  it did.
Mr M remains unhappy with the investigators opinion.  He maintains that hes not been 
treated well by American Express so hes asked for an ombudsmans decision. He explained 
that hes been doing research on persistent  debt and the repayment options offered by 
banks and other people he knows have been offered repayment plans on smaller debts than 
his.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
conclusion reached  by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I realise this will 
come as a disappointment  for Mr M so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
When a customer is in financial difficulty wed expect a financial business to gain an 
understanding of their customers  financial  position, to offer appropriate support and to treat 
their customer positively  and sympathetically.
In the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint, American  Express came to the conclusion that Mr 
M wasnt  in financial difficulties so it declined his request for assistance. I need  to consider 
whether American  Express  acted  fairly  in coming  to the decision it did or whether, as Mr M 
thinks, it should have done more to help him and asked further  questions  to understand his 
financial circumstances.
Ref: DRN18357513American Express provided its customer notes to our service and these show that Mr M 
contacted it in June 2018 and again  in April 2019 to ask for help.
June 2018 telephone call
American Expresss contact notes show that Mr M asked  for the previous  months  interest of 
£482.06 to be waived. I can see that American Express  refunded  this amount  by two 
separate credits  to his credit card account.
I agree  with the investigator that theres limited  information about  what else was discussed at 
this time. The notes dont  suggest that Mr M asked  for any further help or that he made 
American Express he was experiencing financial difficulties so I think American Express 
treated him fairly because  it refunded the interest as hed asked. And the activity  on Mr Ms 
credit card statements at this time doesnt appear to show anything that should have put 
American Express on notice that he was struggling  financially.
April 2019 telephone call
The notes from this call show that Mr M told American Express he was struggling to chip 
away at his credit card balance due to the interest rate each  month being high. I think 
American Express listened to his concerns  because  the call notes  show the call handler 
went on to ask Mr M if he had problems with his finances. Mr M provided further detail and 
explained that hed recently bought  a flat and was spending money  on renovations.  He also 
said hed been  promoted and he was looking  for a new job. He was asked how long hed like 
support and he replied  4-6 months.
The call notes suggest to me that it attempted to understand his difficulties. It appears there 
was initially some confusion about whether or not Mr M was currently  in employment but this 
was resolved during the call. Once  Mr M provided the information the call notes suggest to 
me that it listened  to the information hed provided  because he was put on hold whilst the 
call handler spoke to its financial difficulties team. Mr M was then asked how much  he could 
afford to repay and he replied £1,500 per month.
Although Mr M believed himself to be in financial difficulty, its not necessarily  the case  that 
American Express was obliged to treat him as being in financial difficulty  provided it treated 
him fairly in coming to the conclusion that he wasnt  in financial difficulty.
Based on the information he provided  to American  Express at the time together with the 
information it had about the way he managed his account I dont think  American  Express  
treated him unfairly in coming to the conclusion that he wasnt  in financial difficulty. Ill 
explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
I realise that buying  a flat may have put a strain on Mr Ms personal finances but he also told 
American Express that hed been promoted,  that he was looking for a better  job and that he 
could afford  to pay £1,500 per month. As the amount he said he could afford  to pay was 
significantly greater than his average  required minimum repayments  in the preceding  six 
months, taken as a whole I dont think the information he provided to American  Express 
suggested he was in financial difficulties or would soon become so.
The FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) 1.3 gives examples  of the circumstances 
that would  indicate to a financial  business that a customer is in financial difficulties. CONC 
1.3 provides that the following matters, among others, of which  a firm is aware  or ought 
reasonably to be aware, may indicate  that a customer is in financial difficulties:
Ref: DRN18357514(1) consecutively failing to meet minimum  repayments ;
(2) adverse accurate  entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3) outstanding  county court judgments for non-payment  of debt;
(4) inability to meet  repayments  out of disposable income  or at all, for example, 
where there is evidence of non-payment   of essential bills (such as, utility  bills), 
the customer having  to borrow  further  to repay  existing  debts, or the customer 
only being able to meet repayments  of debts by the disposal of assets or 
security;
(5) consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
(6) agreement to a  debt management  plan or other debt solution;
(7) evidence of discussions with a firm (including a  not-for-profit debt advice  body) 
with a view to entering  into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to 
seeking debt counselling.
Ive therefore  looked  at the information  that would have been available  to American Express  
when Mr M contacted it in April 2019  to see if there  were any signs  that the circumstances 
detailed in CONC 1.3 applied to him  and Ive looked at his credit card statements for the 
period June 2018 until April 2019.
I havent focused on CONC 1.3 (2), (3) (6) or (7) as Im not aware Mr M has provided any 
information to suggest these circumstances  applied to him.
The notes suggest  there was some  discussion about whether or not the repayments which 
Mr M thought he was making  in advance were treated by American Express  as being made 
in arrears but it doesnt appear that American  Express treated the payments made  by Mr M 
as being late as I cant see that any late payment fees were applied.  That being  the case, I 
dont think it can be said that Mr M consecutively failed to meet  his minimum repayments. 
His statements show he generally  paid more than the required minimum repayment  each  
month. And there were also some months when he was able to repay significant amounts in 
excess of the purchases hed made.
Mr M told American Express that he could afford to pay £1,500 per month. Ive already 
explained above that this amount  is almost double the amount of his average minimum 
repayments in the preceding six month period.  This means that after allowing for interest 
applied to his account he was still in a position  to be able to repay some of the outstanding 
balance.
Mr M told us that hes not able to meet his repayments out of his disposable income within  
CONC 1.3(4) because hes using his disposable  income to pay off his debt and using his 
card for his day to day living expenses. I appreciate the points hes made and it wouldnt be 
possible to reach a conclusion about this without a wider look at Mr Ms financial  
circumstances but I dont think it was necessary for American Express to have this to reach 
the conclusion  it did and I wouldnt expect a financial business to ask for more information  
than it needs where  there was nothing to suggest Mr M was in financial difficulties.
Taken with the other information available  to American Express  at the time I dont think the 
spending on Mr Ms card was enough, on its own, to show he was in financial difficulties. He 
was within  his credit limit and the pattern of spending on his card doesnt  appear to show  he 
was using his card to fund essential  spending.
Ref: DRN18357515For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont think there was anything about the way Mr M 
managed his account that should have alerted American Express to him being in financial 
difficulty in light of the circumstances set out at CONC 1.3 and the information  he provided. It 
follows that I dont  think American Express acted unfairly in forming  the opinion  that he 
wasnt in financial difficulty and declining his request for help. And I dont think  it treated him 
unfairly when it didnt ask for more detailed information about his financial circumstances at 
the time.
Im sorry  to hear the impact this issue is having on Mr Ms mental wellbeing  but I think the 
way American Express handled  his request for assistance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so it follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
In terms of Mr Ms points about  persistent debt,  this doesnt appear to be something that he 
raised as part of his original complaint  to American  Express so if he remains concerned 
about this he should raise  this first with American Express and give it the chance to respond  
before we can look into this part of his complaint.
I can see that Mr M feels strongly that American Express  should  have done  more to help 
him. I can see that the investigator has already recommended that he should  contact  
American Express and ask it to undertake a more thorough review of his financial situation. 
If this shows that his income  is insufficient to cover  reasonable  living  expenses  and to meet  
his financial commitments  when  they become due, I would expect American Express  to take 
a sympathetic and positive approach  in trying to help him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1835751