K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complained about Cowley & Miller  Independent Financial Service  Limiteds advice to 
move her personal pension to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) and to invest  in an 
unregulated investment.
background
In early 2012, Mrs B was contacted by an unregulated business. An investment opportunity  
was discussed  regarding Mrs Bs existing personal pension, valued  at under £13,000. The 
proposed investment was into carbon credits.
Mrs B was referred to Cowley & Miller for advice. The pension  planning report 
Cowley & Miller completed  at the time recorded  that:
Mrs B was 39 years old, single with no dependents
She was employed  and earning  £1,500 per month
She had reasonable knowledge  of investments  as she already had an existing 
personal pension  plan, which at that time was worth £12,650.19
She had net assets totalling  £250,000
Her main  needs and priorities were to review her existing  pension  arrangement and 
to discuss her main stated investment objective to invest  in ethical and renewal 
investments through carbon credits
Her attitude to risk was described as Aggressive
She didnt have a history of equity investments
Cowley & Miller recommended that Mrs B switch her personal  pension to a SIPP  and invest 
all the funds in carbon  credits. The SIPP was established and the funds invested but the 
investment subsequently  became illiquid.
Mrs B complained to Cowley  & Miller about  the advice she received but it didnt uphold  her 
complaint. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and thought  that Mrs B had been given 
unsuitable advice  by Cowley & Miller. The adjudicators view was that setting up the SIPP 
itself wasnt appropriate  due to the modest  fund size and the associated  costs.
Regarding the investment in carbon credits, the adjudicator felt that as it was an unusual  and 
unregulated investment, it was only suitable  for a relatively small proportion of an 
experienced investors portfolio. The adjudicator noted the transferred pension represented 
Mrs Bs sole pension savings and she didnt have any other investments at the time. He felt 
Cowley & Miller had been wrong to class Mrs B as an aggressive investor, given her limited 
investment experience and pension provision.
The adjudicator was also of the opinion that Cowley & Miller ought to have advised  Mrs B 
not to switch plans and not to invest any of her limited pension  savings in an unregulated 
investment such as carbon credits. And had Cowley & Miller done so, the adjudicator 
thought that Mrs B wouldnt have proceeded with either.
The business didnt  agree. It said Mrs B had largely  decided on the investment prior to its 
involvement. And shed  committed  to not raising a future complaint about  the advice as part 
of the advice process. It also said that it didnt think Mrs B should have recourse via the 
Ref: DRN15151002Financial Ombudsman  Service  as the FCA had displayed a message  on its website saying 
that it doesnt regulate carbon credits. 
The complaint has been passed  to me to reach  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  in order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint. Ive explained why below. 
Id firstly  like to explain that although  carbon  credits  are not investments that are regulated  
by the FCA, the advice  Cowley  & Miller  provided  to Mrs B to transfer her pension to a SIPP 
was regulated. And so this is a complaint this service  can consider. 
Mrs B had already  been approached about  investing  in carbon credits prior to meeting 
Cowley & Miller. However, advice needed to be provided for Mrs B to switch plans in order  to 
facilitate the carbon credits investment; it wasnt possible to place the investment under her 
current pension plan.  The introducing business  wasnt regulated  and couldnt  provide the 
pension advice in order for the investment to proceed. So its clear that it was 
Cowley & Millers involvement which  allowed the investment to go ahead. And regardless of 
who introduced  Mrs B to the investment, Cowley & Miller still had a duty to provide her with 
suitable advice.
Mrs B was assessed as having an aggressive attitude to risk which was the highest of the 
five risk categories.  I accept that Mrs B may have been dissatisfied  with how her current  
pension was performing and that she may have wanted to achieve growth over the long 
term. But Im not satisfied it was appropriate to categorise her as an aggressive investor. 
The small pension that was transferred represented Mrs Bs entire  pension  savings and she 
had no other  investments  or assets, other  than her home.  She  was also recorded  as having 
reasonable experience of investments as a result  of the pension  she held. But this plan was 
in a managed  fund,  so I think it was misleading  to suggest that this would have given her 
reasonable investment experience.  There was no need for Mrs B to take such a high risk 
with her pension  or to risk losing it entirely.
Cowley & Miller has said that Mrs B was aware of the risks and signed to say that she 
understood she could lose her entire  investment. But it doesnt seem Mrs B was an insistent 
client, and Cowley & Miller didnt follow the necessary process to treat her as one. So 
although Mrs B may have  said she understood the risks, this didnt  absolve  Cowley  & Miller 
from providing suitable advice.
Carbon credits were  relatively new at the time and, as such,  it wasnt clear whether the 
units might  have been over-priced. In addition, with no proven track record it couldnt be 
determined they could be sold, let alone  at a profit. Investing in carbon credits was therefore  
highly speculative. They were also unregulated  and didnt  benefit from the normal investor 
protections such as the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme. Nor did they have a 
ready resale  market. As such investing  in carbon credits  wasnt appropriate for a normal  
retail investor like Mrs B.
Although Cowley  & Miller may not have introduced Mrs B to the investment, it still had a 
duty to consider the suitability of the intended  investment in order to consider the overall 
Ref: DRN15151003suitability of the pension transfer. This is set out in the FCA handbook under COBS 
9.2 Assessing  suitability.  Essentially these  rules require the business to obtain  the 
information necessary  about its client to have a reasonable basis  for believing its 
recommendation meets  his investment  objectives, that the client  is able to bear any 
related investment risks and that he had the necessary experience  and knowledge to 
understand those  risks.
These rules  required Cowley & Miller  to have an understanding of Mrs Bs objectives 
and the risks related to those objectives. It couldnt  ignore  Mrs Bs intention  of investing 
in carbon credits. If it didnt consider this to be suitable in her circumstances, it 
shouldve said so  rather than presuming that the transfer of the pension  was 
necessary to facilitate  the investment. 
In any event, its evident that Cowley  & Miller  had an understanding of the intended 
investment. It explained in the suitability letter that Mrs B could invest a maximum of 10% of 
her net worth in unregulated investments. As it included  Mrs Bs house,  Cowley  & Miller 
deemed her net worth to be £250,000. But I think only her pensions savings shouldve been  
used when determining  what  percentage, if any, shouldve been invested in unregulated 
investments. 
In July 2010, the then regulator, the FSA,  issued  a report  Unregulated Collective 
Investment Schemes: Good and poor practice. This gives as an example of
good practice: The firm set up a maximum portfolio proportion  for UCIS investments within 
their customers portfolio and monitored it on on-going basis.  This level was between 3% 
and 5% and was backed-up by the Firms robust  and on-going due diligence  and 
monitoring.  
The same report gave  as an example  of poor practice: The firm had a strategy to put all of 
its customers and all their money into one UCIS. By advising Mrs B to invest all her 
pensions savings in one unregulated investment,  I think Cowley  & Miller gave poor advice to 
Mrs B. And I think its likely that had Cowley & Miller explained that carbon credits werent a 
suitable investment  for Mrs B, then its unlikely she wouldve gone ahead with the investment  
at all. 
Mrs B relied on Cowley & Millers advice and I dont  think  she shouldve  been advised to 
transfer her pension, knowing the funds  would be invested in carbon credits.  The transfer to 
the SIPP was only necessary to facilitate the investment in carbon credits and due to Mrs Bs 
limited fund size, and the increased charges involved, I dont think the SIPP  was suitable. 
Ive thought about how Mrs B should be compensated. I think  its unlikely she wouldve  
transferred her pension,  but its not clear  how she wouldve invested her plan going forward. 
I say this because  it seems from the factfind that she had become dissatisfied  with the way 
her pension was performing. Im also mindful that it may be difficult for the former pension  
provider to now calculate a nominal value,  several years after the plan was transferred. So 
Ive set out below what  I think  is a fair way of calculating Mrs Bs loss, in the circumstances 
of this case.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs B should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice.
Ref: DRN15151004I take the view that Mrs B would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs B's circumstances  and objectives when she invested. 
what should  Cowley & Miller do?
To compensate Mrs B fairly,  Cowley & Miller must:
Compare the performance of Mrs B's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Cowley & Miller should add interest  as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Cowley & Miller should pay into Mrs B's pension  plan to increase its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Cowley & Miller is unable to pay the total amount  into Mrs B's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs B's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mrs B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs B would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Cowley  & Miller deducts  income  tax from 
the interest it should tell Mrs B how much  has been  taken off. Cowley  & Miller should  give 
Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
transferdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
Ref: DRN15151005of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Cowley  & Miller should take ownership of 
the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. 
This amount should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance  paid as I set out 
above.
If Cowley & Miller is unable to purchase  the investment, the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Cowley & Miller may require that Mrs B provides an 
undertaking to pay Cowley  & Miller any amount she may receive  from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Cowley & Miller will need to meet any costs  in 
drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Cowley & Miller totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Ref: DRN15151006why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs B wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a fair 
measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given 
Mrs B's circumstances and risk attitude.
SIPP fees
The SIPP only exists because of the carbon credits investment. In order for the SIPP  to be 
closed and further SIPP fees prevented, this investment needs to be removed. But if
Cowley & Miller cant buy it Mrs B is faced  with future SIPP fees. I think it is fair to assume  
five years of future SIPP fees. So, if Cowley & Miller  cant  buy the investment, it should pay 
an amount equal  to five years of SIPP fees based on the current  tariff. This is in
addition to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Cowley & Miller  Independent Financial Services  
Limited should pay the amount calculated  as set out above.
Cowley & Miller Independent Financial Services Limited should  provide details of its 
calculation to Mrs B in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2020.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1515100