K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500). He says:
He didnt open a trading account with Plus500 and so the payments taken from his 
bank account  werent  authorised.
Plus500 didnt  carry  out sufficient  checks  to establish whether a trading account  was 
appropriate for him.
The trading  account experienced losses due to Plus500 manipulating the market.
Mr A considers Plus500  responsible for the trading losses on the account  and wants  to be 
compensated for this.
background
A Plus500  Contracts for Differences (CFDs) trading account was set up in Mr As name  in 
October 2017. There has been a loss of about  £28,000 on the account - with deposits and 
withdrawals totalling  about £35,000 and £7,000 respectively. 
Mr A contacted Plus500 via webchat  on 7 November 2017 raising concerns about market  
manipulation. Plus500 responded the next day rejecting such claims.
Mr A corresponded with Plus500 further  about  this. He remained of the view that Plus500  
had manipulated the market and he made particular reference to a position that he felt 
shouldnt have been closed.
Plus500 didnt  change their position. They also wrote  to Mr A on 12 November to inform him 
that, under clause  22.6 of their user agreement, they were closing the trading account and 
gave 14 days of notice.
Mr A contacted our service about  the market manipulation issue.  He also raised concerns 
about not opening the trading account himself,  that Plus500 had obtained unauthorised 
funds from his bank  account and that they hadnt sufficiently checked the account was 
appropriate for him. As Plus500 hadnt had the opportunity to address these additional 
concerns, we referred them  to Plus500  for their consideration. 
Plus500 didnt  uphold the complaint. They said they hadnt taken funds from Mr As bank 
account without  authorisation and that the two payments methods used to deposit  the 
£35,000 were added by either Mr A or by someone who had access to his Plus500 account 
credentials and bank cards. They referred to the user agreement  that says the responsibility  
for transactions carried  out on the account;  along  with ensuring account  credentials remain 
confidential, lies with the account  holder.
They also added that the user agreement  entitles them to rely on the information a client  
provides them. They explained that during  the account opening appropriateness assessment 
Mr A informed them that he had experience in trading,  that he understood CFDs  and that he 
had professional experience and qualifications. And so based on this information, they 
thought it was appropriate for Mr A to have a CFD trading account.
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our investigators but she didnt think Plus500 
had acted unfairly or that they had to do anything further. She also thought that Mr As 
complaint points were  somewhat contradictory.  This was because  Mr A says that he didnt 
Ref: DRN19810762open the trading account and yet, he also says Plus500 didnt carry out the relevant checks  
to ensure it was suitable for him and that the trading losses  he suffered were as a result of 
their manipulation of the market. But even  so, she looked in to the concerns that he raised 
and in summary she said:
Confirmation of the account opening was sent to Mr As email  address and following 
this, an online statement of Mr As bank account  was provided for Plus500s 
verification requirements. From this she didnt think there  was anything  Plus500 
shouldve picked  up on in regard  to the legitimacy  of the account being opened.
Mr A says he doesnt have any trading experience and that he hadnt heard  of 
Plus500. But the webchats he had with Plus500 show he spoke about issues in 
relation to financial markets and specific positions.  And so if Mr A had no experience  
or knowledge of CFD trading  as he suggests,  she wouldnt have expected  him to 
have mentioned what was discussed.
Plus500 confirmed  that in order  to start a webchat in respect of a particular account 
the client had to be logged in. So if Mr A wasnt a genuine customer  then she was 
unsure as to how Mr A wouldve been  aware of the account  credentials. She also 
noted that Mr A had a number of webchats  with Plus500 and yet at no point told them  
that he wasnt a genuine customer.  If this was the case, she thought it reasonable for 
Mr A to have mentioned  this as the primary concern, quite early on.
Records from Mr As bank show that he transferred funds from his savings account  
using online banking  shortly before  it was deposited and used for trading purposes. 
Although Mr A says he didnt notice this drop in his bank account balanced as he was 
only logging online to check a direct debit payment  had been  made,  she thought the 
amounts involved  were significant  enough  for him to have noticed sooner.
Plus500 relied upon the information Mr A provided them when determining a trading  
account was appropriate for him. And so she thought Plus500 had acted in line with 
the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) as this allows  them to rely upon the 
information provided by the client.
After consideration  of information provided by Plus500 about the sources  it obtains  
its prices from,  she was satisfied its pricing was fair. And that the terms of account, 
which Mr A accepted upon its opening, say that the client  gives  consent for Plus500  
to execute orders  outside a regulated exchange or multilateral trading facility.
Mr A questions  why a specific position was closed as he disputes the rate in question 
went up to 0.13.  Plus500 has provided evidence to show  the buy rate did reach this 
level. And so, although the sell rate seems  less than this, as Mr A opened the 
position on a sell rate Plus500 would close on the (0.13) buy rate. So she didnt think  
Plus500 had manipulated the market.
Mr A disagreed and so the matter has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for largely  the same reasons. 
the opening of the account/deposit of funds
Ive firstly  considered Mr As claim that he didnt  open the trading account and that Plus500 
took unauthorised  funds  from his bank account. But like our investigator I also consider that 
his other  complaint points contradict this. I say this as if Mr A didnt open  the trading account  
Ref: DRN19810763then I wouldnt have  expected him to have complained  about  the appropriateness  of Plus500 
providing the account to him, nor that they manipulated  the markets  in respect of his trades. 
It is also at odds with the conversations  Mr A had with Plus500 through  their webchat service 
and what hes told us when bringing his complaint to our service. And so, on balance, I think  
Mr A opened  the account and I havent  seen anything to show  he didnt deposit  the funds. 
Mr A says that he isnt experienced in CFD trading and thinks Plus500  ought to obtain  proof  
of an individuals  experience and knowledge  before allowing them  to open an account  or 
trade. Ive taken Mr As point in to account  but I disagree and Ill explain  why.
The COBS  sets out what is expected of businesses, like Plus500,  when  offering financial  
services such  as CFD trading. This includes,  under rule 10.2.4, that a business  must 
determine whether  the client has the necessary experience and knowledge in order  to 
understand the risks involved in relation to the product or service  offered or demanded. 
Plus500 do this by carrying out an appropriateness  assessment before a prospective client 
can open an account. And Mr A told Plus500 that he had experience in trading, that he 
understood CFDs and that he had professional experience and qualifications.
The COBS  also says,  under rules  10.2.4,  that a business is entitled to rely on the 
information provided by the client unless it is aware  that the information is manifestly out of 
date, inaccurate or incomplete. I therefore think it was reasonable for Plus500 to rely on the 
information Mr A provided them in the appropriateness assessment. Ive also not seen 
anything to show Plus500 ought to have been  aware that the information  Mr A provided was 
inaccurate. It follows that I dont think Plus500  acted  wrongly by offering Mr A a trading  
account or allowing him to trade.
market manipulation
Mr A says Plus500s manipulation of the market led to his trade losses.  Ive carefully  
considered this point  but from the information  Plus500 has provided  about the sources  it 
obtains its prices from, Im satisfied their pricing  is fair. 
Ive also looked  at the position that Mr A doesnt  think shouldve been  closed  as he says the 
rate didnt reach 0.13. Plus500  has however shown the buy rate did reach this level. It 
seems that Mr A may be referring  to the sell rate which was lower than this. But as he 
opened the position on a sell rate Plus 500 would close on the buy rate  which, Im 
satisfied, did reach  0.13. 
This misunderstanding may be as a result of Mr As self-confessed inexperience of CFD 
trading. But while that might  be the reason, I dont think Plus500 can be held responsible for 
the losses Mr A suffered  on this trade. 
other issues
Mr A has also raised concerns about not being able to withdraw money out of the trading 
account. I appreciate  his frustrations with the withdrawal restrictions Plus500 put in place. 
But for the reasons Ill explain, I dont  think it was unreasonable for them to do so. 
I understand Mr A lost his bank card and that he informed Plus500 about this in August 
2018. And clause  19.13 of the user agreement says:
Ref: DRN19810764Withdrawals from your Trading Account should  be made using the same method  used  
by you to fund your Trading Account and to the same remitter. We reserve the right to 
decline or cancel  a withdrawal request with a specific payment method and suggest 
another payment method for which you will need to proceed with a new withdrawal 
request and supply  further supporting documentation,  upon request, for our internal 
checks and proper processing of the withdrawal request
Due to the change in payment method on the trading account, Plus500 asked Mr A to 
provide further  supporting documentation as part of their verification process to facilitate  
future account withdrawals. I think this request  is reasonable  in the circumstances as it 
allows Plus500 to protect themselves and their clients from potential fraudulent activity.
Upon receipt of the supporting documentation  and Plus500 carrying out their verification 
process, Mr A was able to withdraw funds  from the account. I know  Mr A is unhappy with 
how long this took and that he thinks Plus500  prevented him withdrawing it sooner to benefit 
from his bad decisions through chasing the money  hed already lost. But Ive not seen any 
evidence to show Plus500 caused any undue  delay in facilitating Mr As withdrawal request 
and I also dont think it would be fair to hold them responsible for any decisions  Mr A made 
to trade  during  this time. Mr A wasnt under any obligation, or pressure,  from Plus500  to 
trade and he did so at his own risk.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1981076