K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs S say Nottingham Building  Society (Nottingham) mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
The PPI was cover on Mr S only for sickness, accident and unemployment. The cover wasnt  
increased when  Mr and Mrs S applied for a further advance  in 2004. But it was increased 
when they took a further advance in 2005.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S took the PPI when they took their mortgage. Theyve said they were told they 
had to take the PPI. Given when it took place, I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs S to recall the 
sale vividly. So what Mr and Mrs S have said isnt, on its own,  enough to make me think that 
Nottingham misled them  in the way theyve said. And I havent seen anything else to make 
me think Nottingham misled them about having  to take the PPI. Or anything  that makes  me 
think Mr and Mrs S were  pressured to buy it. Mr S signed a separate  application form to 
apply for the cover. So I think Mr and Mrs S were likely aware that the PPI was something 
separate from the mortgage. The mortgage  offer also set out the PPI cost separately.  
With all this in mind, I think  its likely  Nottingham made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have 
to buy the PPI and they chose to buy it  although  I can understand why they might not 
remember this.
Nottingham didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs S as being  right for their own particular 
circumstances. So Nottingham  didnt have to check the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs S. But 
Nottingham did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs S got the information  they needed to decide if 
the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information Nottingham  gave  Mr and Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the cover for Mr S  so it looks like they wanted 
this type of unemployment  and sickness cover for him. And from what  Mr and Mrs S have 
told us, Mr S wasnt entitled to anything  more from his employer at the time than statutory 
sickness or redundancy pay.
Also, from what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time Mr S wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions on or limits to the cover  so the cover wouldve been useful if something went  
wrong. It was cover  for Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  a long term liability secured on their 
home. The benefit couldve helped at what could  be a difficult  time if Mr S lost his job or was 
too sick to work. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
Mr and Mrs S off taking the cover.
Ref: DRN15783552Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Ss points but, for the reasons Ive already given above, 
these points dont  change my decision. 
What Ive said above means Nottingham  doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs S. But Nottingham will pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S 
because:
Nottingham got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Nottingham didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nottingham has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nottingham has to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nottingham should also pay back to Mr and Mrs S any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nottingham should pay back to Mr and Mrs S the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of the PPI. Nottingham 
should also pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nottingham Building Society does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Nottingham Building Society  does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1578355