K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  the amount of the premium theyve been charged by 
Aviva Insurance Limited for their home insurance policy.
background 
In January 2016 Mr and Mrs M were asked to remove a tree in their garden  because it was 
thought to be causing subsidence damage to a neighbours  property.
They notified  Aviva  as their home insurer. They didnt  believe their tree was causing the 
problem. Aviva was also their neighbours insurer. 
When Mr and Mrs Ms insurance  policy was renewed in December 2016, Aviva  notified them 
that their premium would  be increased by £131.31. On the next renewal the premium 
increased again. Mr and Mrs M queried  this since no claim had been made under their 
policy.
Aviva said there was no impact on Mr and Mrs Ms premium  as a result  of the notification for 
the policy year ending 28 December 2017.  It said there was an impact on the premium  in the 
following year and it increased by £83.20 because of that. It said it was common  practice for 
insurers when calculating  a premium to take into consideration anything  notified to them 
which could result in a claim under the policy in future. 
Mr and Mrs M say Aviva  had told their broker the increase was a direct  result of the 
possibility of a subsidence claim. Mr M says in later years the premium  increased again and 
he thinks the total subsidence-related increase  is £167.66. He doesnt  think Aviva  was 
justified in charging an increased  premium when no claim had been made.
Aviva apologised for the delay in dealing with the complaint and offered £50 as 
compensation for that.
After Mr and Mrs M brought a complaint to this service, Aviva  agreed to refund the sum of 
£83.20 as a gesture of goodwill. It increased its offer of compensation to £75 as Mr M had 
been given conflicting information  about the price increase.
Our adjudicator thought Aviva  was entitled  to increase Mr and Mrs Ms premium based on 
the notification  of a potential  claim.
As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, the matter  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant tell Aviva what it should charge Mr and Mrs M for their home  insurance and what  
factors it should take into account  when  setting their premium, including whether or not it 
should take into account notification of a possible subsidence claim. These are matters for 
Aviva to decide. Its entitled to make its own assessment  of the likelihood of Mr and Mrs M 
making a claim under  their policy in future.
Ref: DRN18838942What this service can do, however, is look at whether  Aviva  treated Mr and Mrs M fairly and 
whether it can explain  to us why its charged the price it has. We can then check the price  in 
order to be satisfied that a consumer has been treated fairly and in line with the way the 
insurer would treat all its other  customers in similar circumstances.
As part of our investigation into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint Aviva has shared with us 
confidential, business-sensitive information about  how Mr and Mrs Ms premiums were 
calculated on the December 2016 and 2017 renewals. I have checked that information 
carefully and can see the reasons the policy increased on renewal.  I appreciate  why Mr and 
Mrs M thought the notification of a possible subsidence claim was the reason for the 
premium increase in December 2016. But, from the information  provided, that isnt the case.  
A number  of different factors affected  the premium. 
With regard to the December 2017 renewal I can see that the only part of the premium 
increase related to the subsidence issue was £83.33. Aviva has shown that its process is to 
adjust premiums once  theres a cost associated with a policy.  In this case  before  the 2017  
renewal Aviva had incurred a cost by instructing its loss adjuster. Its not unusual  for 
notifications of possible claims to have an impact on premiums.  Each  insurer is entitled to 
form its own view on how much risk is presented by a particular customer and decide  what 
premium it needs to charge to cover  that risk. In addition to this a number of other factors  
affected the total premium price.
For both years Im satisfied that Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs M in the same way as it would 
any of its other customers in similar  circumstances. So I dont think  the fact that their 
premiums increased in 2016 and 2017  means it treated them unfairly.
I note that Aviva has offered to refund the sum of £83.33 (being the amount the premium  
increased in 2017 due to the possible claim) as a goodwill gesture. This isnt something  its 
required to do. So I think its offer was reasonable. Mr and Mrs M should contact Aviva  if they 
wish to take up this offer.
I think Avivas  offer of £75 compensation for the information it gave to Mr and Mrs M about 
their premium and delay in dealing with their complaint is fair and reasonable and in line with 
what Id have recommended  if this offer hadnt  been made.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Aviva Insurance  Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M £75 
(if it hasnt done so already) as compensation for the trouble  and upset it caused  them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1883894