K821x#15Complaint
Miss C has complained about the loans she took out with Elevate Credit  International 
Limited (trading as Sunny). She says Sunny irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
Miss C took out seven  instalment loans  from Sunny between  August 2016 and September  
2017. A summary  of Miss Cs borrowing, based on the information  provided to us from 
Sunny, can be found below:
Loan 
NumberStart Date End DateAmount  
BorrowedNumber of 
Instalments
1 06/08/2016 28/10/2016 £100.00 6
2 08/10/2016 22/12/2016 £50.00 6
3 11/11/2016 26/12/2016 £50.00 6
4 28/12/2016 26/05/2017 £100.00 6
5 28/03/2017 28/09/2017 £50.00 6
6 30/05/2017 28/09/2017 £50.00 6
7 05/09/2017 26/01/2018 £50.00 6
Our adjudicator thought Sunny had treated Miss C unfairly by providing  loans  6 and 7. She 
thought by this time a pattern of lending had developed and so Sunny was wrong  to have  
provided these loans.
As part of her findings, our adjudicator explained  that Miss C had taken 6 loans in 9 months,  
and the amounts being borrowed didnt significantly decrease over this period or for the rest 
of Miss Cs borrowing relationship with Sunny.  In light of this, she felt this pattern of 
borrowing by loan 6 suggested Miss C had become  persistently reliant on short-term loans.
Miss C didnt tell us whether she agreed  or disagreed with the adjudicators view.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings. It asked our adjudicator to consider that all 
the loans taken by Miss C were for relatively small amounts in comparison to her declared 
income and that they were taken over a relatively  short period of time. Sunny said that in 
light of this it didnt  agree that the giving of loans 6 and 7 was wrong. 
As no agreement could be reached  the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  in order to reasonably 
conclude Miss C could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
Ref: DRN15070332These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
Miss C didnt disagree with our adjudicators  findings  about loans 1  5. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing  disagreement about  them. So I wont  be making  a decision 
about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing  relationship Miss C had with Sunny. 
So they are something  I will take into account when considering the other loans she took.
I also havent recreated individual, proportionate  affordability checks for loans  6 and 7 
because I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Instead Ive looked  at the overall pattern of 
Sunnys lending history  with Miss C, with a view to seeing if there  was a point at which 
Sunny should  reasonably have seen  that further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise  
harmful. And I think this point was reached  by loan 6, so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  I say that because:
There was an emerging pattern between loans 1 to 5 of Miss C taking new loans 
prior to and shortly  after,  she settled  previous  loans. I think  that by loan 6 Sunny  
wouldve been aware that there appears  to have been only one clear day that Miss C 
wasnt indebted to Sunny.
By loan 6, there was no sustained, significant reduction in Miss Cs borrowing. As 
mentioned above, by this point there appears  to have been only one full day that 
Miss C wasnt  indebted to Sunny. Based on this, Sunny ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Miss C was having  to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying 
her previous loans  was leaving  in her finances.
Ref: DRN15070333Miss C wasnt making any real inroads into what she owed Sunny and her 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period  of time. Loan 6 was 
provided more  than nine months after Miss Cs first loan and this period was 
extended even further when loan 7 was given.
By this point Sunny shouldve reasonably been aware that Miss C wasnt using  these 
loans for the purpose they were  intended. 
I think that Miss C lost out because Sunny provided loans 6 and 7 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Cs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time and
the extended period of time Miss C owed Sunny money was likely to have  had 
negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss C paid on loans 6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove all entries about  these above loans  from Miss Cs credit  file. The period of 
time Miss C owed Sunny money  means  that any information still recorded about 
these loans is adverse. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Miss Cs complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Miss C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1507033