K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a Conditional Sales Agreement 
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).
background
At the end of January  2019, Mr C entered into a Conditional Sales Agreement  with 
Moneybarn to acquire  a nine-year-old used car that had travelled around 99,108  miles.  The 
total cash price of the car was approximately £6,620. Mr C provided an initial  payment of 
£400, and the monthly  repayments on the agreement  were around £281 over a 42-month 
period.
At the beginning  of March 2019, Mr C wrote to the broker complaining about the quality of 
the car. He said that shortly after acquiring  the car he noticed it had faults such as the oil 
warning light was illuminating, a failed handbrake,  the air pressure and poor condition of 
tyres, satnav not working due to a missing media, power steering making a loud grinding 
noise, clicking noises  which he said might  be coming from a driveshaft, slight ticking when 
the engine is idling,  and problems getting into gear.  
Mr C has also told our service the headlight  was insecure/loose and that car was emitting 
grey/blue smoke which may be connected  to the oil warning light which was illuminating. Mr 
C says he wants Moneybarn to take back the car and he wants all his money  back, including  
his deposit, plus compensation for the distress and inconvenience he says he has been  
caused.  
In mid-April 2019, the car had an independent inspection completed,  and on 22 May 2019 
Moneybarn wrote to Mr C. In this correspondence they said that the Consumer Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA)  required  them  to provide a car that is free from defects within  the first six 
months, providing these  defects are not cosmetic or as a result of fair wear and tear. They  
go on to say that that they reviewed the independent inspection,  which  was requested  by the 
supplying dealership. Based on this report,  they said there was no suggestion  that the car 
was not fit for purpose at the point of sale, and that issues raised of a cosmetic and wear 
and tear nature are not covered by the legislation.  They quoted  the report  saying: Based on 
the current information the vehicle  was undoubtedly road legal  at the date of purchase with 
this opinion reaffirmed by the fact that the vehicle passed an MOT with a similar mileage as 
at the point of sale. Moneybarn  said the issues Mr C was experiencing were not in question, 
but they could not conclude that the car was in this condition at the point of sale. 
In that response  they talk about  the additional issue raised with excessive oil consumption, 
which they say is a known manufacture fault due to faulty piston rings. They go on to say 
that after reviewing  the report,  the broker called a manufacturers dealership in Oxford, as 
per Mr C request, and was advised  to book the car in to have the relevant oil check  carried  
out. They said that the manufacturers dealership advised that, if this is a manufacturing 
fault, the repairs will be carried out at no cost to him and they say that, under the legislation, 
the dealership  is entitled to have the opportunity to have the car repaired.  Moneybarn also 
wrote that they may be able to assist further if Mr C experiences further issues after the 
repairs completed by the supplying  dealership had failed; provided Mr C is able to evidence 
this.  
Moneybarn concluded,  in the mid-April 2019 correspondence, by saying that Mr C was not 
entitled to reject the car and reminded him that he should  not cancel his monthly  payments 
Ref: DRN18427192as he is still the account  holder and liable for the payments. They  said that, if the arrears  go 
unaddressed, this could negatively impact his credit file and requested that he contact their 
customer service  is he wants to discuss  exit options  from the agreement. 
Mr C was unhappy with this, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  not be upheld.
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is unclear or in dispute, I
reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  which  is to say, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened based on the evidence available and the surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mr C has questioned the affordability  aspects  of his finance agreement, but it is important to 
note that in this decision  Im not looking at this aspect,  as this has been investigated by 
Moneybarn under a separate  complaint. Also, Mr C has mentioned that Moneybarn  issued 
him with a default  notice and has talked about  repossession of his car and the impact of this 
on his credit file, but in this decision,  Im only looking at whether the car in question  was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. So, Im only considering the events/issues  that have 
been addressed  by Moneybarn in the correspondence to him dated 22 May 2019, and only 
the ones that have  been raised with them by Mr C before that date.
Mr C acquired  the car under a Conditional Sales Agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Moneybarn is the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and is responsible for dealing  with
complaints about  their quality. The CRA  covers  agreements such  as the one Mr C entered  
into. Under the agreement there  is an implied  term that the goods supplied  will be of 
satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods  will be considered of satisfactory quality where  
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would  consider satisfactory   taking into 
account the description of the goods,  the price  paid and other relevant circumstances. I think 
in this case those  relevant  circumstances include,  but are not limited  to, the age and mileage 
of the car and the cash price. The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general 
state and condition and other things like their fitness  for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor  defects, safety,  and durability.
In Mr Cs case the car was used,  with a price of around £6,600. It had covered around 
99,108 miles and was approximately  nine years old when he acquired  it. So, the car had 
travelled a reasonable distance  and its reasonable to expect there to be some  wear to it as 
a result,  and Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new  car. But given the 
age, mileage and price paid, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person wouldnt expect 
any significant issues to be wrong shortly  after it was acquired. 
Mr C, when outlining why he should be entitled to reject  the car, has informed us of the many  
faults that he believes were present when he took possession of the car. 
The CRA sets out that Mr C has a short term right to reject  the car within  the first 30 days if 
the car is of unsatisfactory quality, however, he would need to ask for rejection within that 
Ref: DRN18427193time. Mr C would not be able to retrospectively  exercise his short  term right of rejection at a 
later date.
Mr C purchased the car at the end of January 2019, and I can see, from the copies of 
correspondence provided, that Mr C started  to mention to the broker  some of the faults he 
was experiencing with the car only at the beginning  of March 2019. But even if I accept there  
were faults  which  made the car of unsatisfactory quality  which Im not making a finding  on 
at the moment - Mr C could only reject the car within the first 30 days, if he expressed his 
wish to do so. However,  it appears  that Mr C at that time was not asking to reject  the car. He 
was unhappy  about some of the faults  such as issues with oil consumption,  condition  and air 
pressure of tyres and missing satnav media.  And the broker explained to him that his first 
port of call is to speak  to the dealership, to which Mr C replied  that he will get a hold of them.  
So, based  on this evidence I dont think Mr C expressed his wish to reject  the car within the 
first 30 days.
CRA says that if the car acquired wasnt of satisfactory quality, or not as described then Mr 
C would  be entitled  to still return it after 30 days,  but Mr C doesnt have the right to reject  the 
car until he has exercised  his right to repair. So, Mr C doesnt have an automatic right to 
return the car. He would first need to show the car wasnt of satisfactory quality because the 
faults he complains about  were likely  to have been  present  or developing at the point of sale 
and Moneybarns one attempt at a repair has failed.  
Moneybarn say there is no evidence to indicate that the car was not of satisfactory quality or 
fit for purpose at the point of sale. They  have  mentioned that the independent  inspection,  
which was carried out mid-April 2019,  concluded  that there was no evidence that the car was 
not fit for purpose  at the point of sale. So, Ive considered the independent report which was 
done when the car had travelled around  100,330 miles (approximately 1,222  miles  travelled  
since the point  of sale). 
I can see that the independent report conducted  an eight-mile road test and a physical 
assessment of the car to assess the faults  mentioned by Mr C. The report concludes  that 
there was no doubt that the car had multiple issues, as reported. It said that most  of the 
issues were cosmetic, however, the handbrake was not operational, and the front headlamp 
was loose so the car would not be considered  road legal at the point of this inspection; as it 
would not meet the MOT standards. The report goes on to say that the car did pass the MOT  
on 5 February 2019, when it had travelled 99,156  miles, so it says that the headlamp  and the 
handbrake issues found must have developed after the point of sale. 
The report  also comments that the noise coming from the drive shaft were most likely  the 
cause of wear and tear to the associated CV joint, and that these must be within minimal 
MOT standard as otherwise the car would not have passed its MOT in February 2019. In the 
end, the report  concludes that the car was undoubtedly road legal  at the point  of sale,  and it 
concludes that this opinion is reaffirmed  by the fact that the car passed the 5 February 2019 
MOT. 
The broker  told us that Mr C questioned why the independent report doesnt mention the 
issues with the gears,  so the broker reached out by phone to the engineer  who inspected the 
car. They said that the engineer confirmed  that the car struggled to go into gear only once, 
but that this was simply due to the fact that the engineer misplaced  the gears, and the 
engineer told them  that he did not find any faults relating to the gears. So, I think most likely, 
if there was an issue with getting  into gear,  the engineer would have spotted this when he 
conducted an eight-mile  road test and a physical assessment  of the car, and, most likely, 
Ref: DRN18427194would have noted this on the report.  Also, I havent been presented with anything  persuasive 
to make me think its more likely than not that there were issues with the gears.
I know the report doesnt specifically comment on the condition and air pressure of tyres,  but 
I think, most  likely, these must have been  within the minimal MOT  standard  as otherwise the 
car would not have  passed its MOT in February  2019. However, the report  does say that Mr 
Cs concerns regarding the oil consumption will require further  investigation using industry 
standards methods.
Taking everything into consideration, including the independent report, I think most  likely all 
the faults mentioned by Mr C, except for the oil consumption issue,  were not present at the 
point of sale. But considering everything, including the age and mileage of the car I think  Mr 
C needs to expect there to be some faults starting to develop  in the car when he first 
acquired it. I will separately address  the oil consumption issue  below.
Regarding the missing  media for the satnav,  Mr C has not given our service  any evidence  
that would  show  that the media  for the satnav was to be included  in the sale,  and I know  that 
he says that it is a standard spec for the type of car he bought,  so this should have been 
included. However,  just because an item is a standard  spec on a brand-new car that doesnt 
necessarily mean that a second-hand car would still have this item. I havent  been presented  
with anything persuasive to make  me think its more likely than not that satnav was a feature 
that was included as part of this sale. And on that basis, I dont think  it would  be reasonable 
for me to conclude  that the media  for the satnav should have been  included. 
Regarding the oil consumption, the report suggested that a further check  needs  to be 
undertaken under workshop-controlled conditions.  
Mr C says that he asked  for the car to be booked into the manufacturers dealership in Kent 
so that he could drop it off for the oil consumption test, but he says that when he talked to 
that manufacturers dealership, they told him they have  no record that they should be 
expecting his car. So, he says, that he didnt arrange to bring in the car as he didnt want to 
be stuck with the bill.
The broker  provided  our service with a summary of their notes  and copies of some of the 
correspondence they had with Mr C. Based on these, it seems  Mr C told the broker  that he 
has spoken directly with one of the manufacturers  dealerships about  the oil issues,  and he 
was told that the issue  is possibly  a manufacturing fault relating to the piston rings. So, the 
broker says they themselves decided to contact one of the manufacturers  dealerships  in 
Oxford, who also confirmed that the oil issue is more than likely a manufacture defect on that 
specific engine. So, from summary  of the notes  and the correspondence,  it seems that the 
broker on a few occasions told Mr C to book in with a manufacturers dealerships  to have the 
fault with the oil checked. Also, on a few occasions,  the broker told Mr C that if he books the 
car in, they would also cover the £120 diagnostic fee if it later turns  out not to be a 
manufacturing defect.  The broker communicated to Mr C that, if it turns  out not to be a 
manufacturing defect,  the supplying dealership will rectify the fault. 
I can also see from one of the emails to Mr C that the broker wrote:  I have since called the 
East Kent branch  as per your request who confirmed to me they will be happy  to book the 
vehicle in for an Oil consumption test / investigation  (Funded by us) to establish whether this 
is a manufacturing  fault or not. They advised  they will need the vehicle for the full day of your 
choice, however they will have a courtesy  car available for you upon request. I was advised  
to pass you their direct booking number: and the email provides a booking number that Mr C 
Ref: DRN18427195can call when it is convenient  for him. So overall, Im satisfied that the broker did try to get to 
the bottom  of the fault with the oil issue by providing  reasonable  options to Mr C, so they 
have taken fair steps to try and put things right. And Mr C doesnt  have the right to reject the 
car until he has exercised  his right to repair. So, it wasnt unfair for Moneybarn  to say he 
couldnt reject the car until Moneybarn had been  given  an opportunity to repair it first.
In October  2019, Mr C told our service  that there have been  further  issues  with the car. He 
says he had a local mobile mechanic come out and run a few basic checks  on the car. Mr C 
says the checks showed  that there  was no compression and the cam chain has snapped, so 
he says he should  be well in his rights to have  this fixed or the finance  agreement cancelled.  
We asked Mr C if he wants to provide our service  with an inspection report  that would 
counter the independent report completed in April 2019, but he has not provided us with one. 
Considering everything, including the age and mileage of the car, I think  Mr C needs  to 
expect there  to be some faults starting to develop in the car when he first acquired  it. But 
even if the oil faults were  such  significant  issues that a reasonable person wouldnt expect to 
be wrong with the car shortly after it was acquired, Mr C still wouldnt have the right to reject 
the car until he has exercised his right to repair. Taking all the circumstances into account, 
including the fact that Mr C didnt give Moneybarn  the chance  to have an attempt at repairing 
the car, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say that he had the right to reject  the 
car. 
While Mr C has my sympathy, Im very sorry to disappoint him but considering  all the 
circumstances and evidence available I cant uphold his complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 June  2021.
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1842719