K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy because Unum Limited ceased  his payments under his group income 
protection policy. 
background
The background to this decision  is set out under my provisional one [a copy of which  is 
attached below] and so for simplicity, Ill now summaries the key arguments and positions of 
all parties. 
Mr S became unwell  and was diagnosed with stomach cancer in November 2013.  His group 
income protection policy was making regular  payments from February  2014.  However,  after 
reviewing Mr S claim, it stopped payments in June 2017. Unum realised it had stopped his 
benefit prematurely  and so it made  further payments until September that year.  
Unum said its decision  to stop paying  Mr S was based on medical records which it 
interpreted to mean he was no longer incapacitated (as described  under its policy). Mr S 
didnt agree and so brought  his complaint here.  
Our investigator upheld  his complaint  and so Unum asked for a further review by an 
ombudsman. I considered the case  and thought  Mr S complaint should not succeed. I 
issued my provisional findings and said Unum had ceased paying Mr S claim fairly, because  
the medical evidence available  suggested he was well enough to return to work in some 
capacity.
I invited both parties to add any further arguments before reaching  my final decision. Unum 
said it had nothing further to add. But Mr S did. He responded to my provisional findings  with 
several points and has requested to see some of the evidence Ive relied  on to reach my 
final decision   which Ill make arrangements to share  with him. But for the purposes  of this 
decision, Ive condensed  Mr S arguments into the following points. Mr S said;
He would like me to consider that his is a high-pressured role which  is target driven. 
Hes expected to meet with clients and build trusted, working relationships. He said 
these are areas he struggled  with since his illness  and;
He disagreed with part of my decision where Ive referred to medical evidence that 
suggested he was ready for a phased return to work  in August 2017. And the 
suggestion that he was ready to increase his hours  from part time to full time work 
over four  six weeks. Mr S said this is factually incorrect and signposted to his GPs 
FIT note from that time. 
And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr S complaint,  for all the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision. I dont 
think Unum has unfairly ceased  paying  his claim because the medical evidence suggested 
Mr S was well enough  to return to work. 
Ref: DRN16125172Mr S saw his consultant  psychologist on 25 August 2017, this was subsequently followed up, 
in writing, to Mr S GP on 31 August. This letter stated the consultants  opinion on Mr S 
condition and it said;
[Mr S] is due to return to work over the coming  month and I will review him soon  after he is 
back at work. I suggested that a 4-6 week  phased  return  to work during which he moves  
from part-time  to full-time  is adequate 
I should also highlight  that Mr S FIT notes issued by his GP at that time are consistent with 
this, recommending that he is fit to return to work on a phased return basis.  And so, I 
disagree with Mr S arguments  that say otherwise.
I take on board Mr S comments about his role being a high-pressured one and that he 
struggled to perform his main duties. But I should  highlight the main  reasons for this are 
driven by different symptoms, because hes not suffering from the same illness he had in 
2013. 
Mr S put forward new medical  evidence  for problems hes experienced from 2018  onwards. 
But thats not something Im considering as part of this complaint  as Ive already explained.  
In my provisional findings, I said that Mr S will need to raise those problems with his 
employer outside  of this particular case.  And they, in turn, can raise  this with Unum  if 
necessary.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr S complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
[copy of provisional decision]
complaint
Mr S is unhappy  because  Unum Ltd ceased  his payments under  his group  income protection
insurance policy.
background
Mr S was signed off as unfit to work due to cancer since November 2013 and Unum  started
to pay his group  income protection policy benefits in February 2014. After a review of the
claim since January 2017, Unum stopped the payments in June 2017.
Mr S said this was unfair as the medical evidence showed he was expected to have  a
phased return to work, and not that he was fit to return to work full-time.  He said he couldnt
return to work  full-time because he was diagnosed with moderate depression in July 2017
and was prescribed Sertraline 50mg for a week, and 100mg  thereafter. Mr S felt Unum
should continue to pay the claim  to cover a proportionate benefit until he was able to return
to work  full-time.
Ref: DRN16125173Unum said the medical evidence  related  to his physical  condition showed Mr S remained in
remission. And according to Mr S psychiatrists report,  a phased  return to work wouldve
completed in around  four to six weeks. It said this meant Mr S would have been  fit to return
to work  on a full-time  basis after this period. Although initially it stopped the payment in June
2017, Unum  agreed  to review this, and made payments  up to September 2017 which it said
was in line with the medical evidence.
Mr S disagreed with Unums  position on the matter and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and upheld it. She said it was reasonable for
Unum to conclude Mr S could have a phased return to work,  based on the medical records
about his physical condition.  But she didnt  agree Unum should have stopped the claim
payments. She said this was because it was for Unum to show  Mr S no longer met the terms
of the policy. Based on the psychiatrists  comments about his mental health problems, the
investigator felt Unum should continue to pay a proportional benefit until a return  to work on
a full-time basis was possible.
Unum disagreed and said the evidence  showed Mr S condition had improved  to the point
where he could have returned to work full-time. It said there  was no evidence that a phased
return work had failed  and its payment of the benefit until September 2017 was reasonable
based on Mr S psychiatrists comments. Unum added that Mr S employer  didnt report  a
new period  of absence due to sickness for it to consider  any linked claim.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
The relevant rules  and guidelines on insurance  claims  can be found in the Insurance Code
of Business Sourcebook. Essentially the rules say the insurer must act fairly and not decline
a claim unreasonably.  This is relevant  in Mr S circumstances as I need to decide  whether
Unums decision to terminate his claim  in June 2017 was reasonable.
Mr S policy states the following about what is meant by incapacity:
Definition A
(i)the member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that the member
(a) unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform material and
substantial duties, of the insured occupation, and is
(b) not performing  any occupation, except  as provided under paragraph  5.3
Whilst Mr S did satisfy Unum since 2014 that he was incapacitated,  the policy terms entitled
it to review his claim  from time to time and request information.  The policy states:
7.2 2Unum  may request all and any medical evidence or informationfrom time
to time [Unum] sees fitin  order for Unum to properly  assess  a claim and to
substantiate the members incapacity and continuing  incapacity
a) Evidence of the presence of an impairment of sufficient severity and duration to
satisfy the definition  of incapacity
Based on these terms, Im satisfied that Unum acted fairly in deciding to review Mr S claim
by considering the available medical evidence in 2017. But Unum must  also demonstrate
that it reasonably relied on this information to conclude Mr S impairment wasnt of
sufficient severity in order to terminate his claim fairly.
medical evidence
Mr S medical records indicate that as early as August 2016,  his GP advised  him that the
implications of his symptoms  may be present long term and that he should  consider
returning to work, even  if it was part time to start with.
On 23 May 2017, Mr S consulted with his GP again, and reported anxiety related to his
physical condition. Mr S reported that he was not sleeping well and wasnt looking forward to
Ref: DRN16125174anything. He also mentioned  that he felt socially isolated. But based on the further
consultation notes from 17 July 2017  Mr S GP didnt have any concerns with him returning
to work.  The notes show the GP agreed that he was well enough to return  to work.
Mr S was diagnosed with moderate depressive episode  in August 2017.  The consultant
noted that Mr S presented  with social  withdrawal,  poor confidence,  difficulty  in concentration
and anhedonia. In particular,  the consultant noted that Mr S was also;
preoccupied with a feeling that he will need to go to the bathroom and this impacts
on his decision making
The letter from the consultant didnt  comment on whether Mr S was fit, or unfit to work  at that
stage, but it did refer him for psychological therapy as well as prescribing  anti-depressants.
So, I think it was important for Unum to look at the contemporaneous  medical evidence  to
help determine whether the consultant thought Mr S was able to return  to work at that time.
In late August 2017 the consultant wrote to Mr S GP and explained  that he could  come off
his anti-depressant medication slowly to avoid discontinuation syndrome. The consultant
also suggested the following:
a 4-6 week  phased return to work during  which  he moves from part-time to full
time is adequate
The above persuades me that by August 2017,  Mr S psychiatrist didnt  feel his depression
was severe enough to preclude returning to work on a full-time basis within at most, six
weeks. So according to the terms Ive mentioned  above, Unum could reasonably  conclude
that Mr S shouldve returned to work on a full time basis within  that timeframe.
Mr S said Unums Chief Medical Officer did a desktop assessment but should  have asked
his psychiatrist instead  about his mental health condition which has prevented  him from
returning to work full time. But I dont think this was necessary because  Unum  already had
the medical evidence it needed to determine the outcome of its review.  The CMOs
conclusion that Mr S anxiety and depression were linked  with deconditioning  is also
supported in the consultants letter dated 24 October 2017 where they stated:
He does have some  anxiety  about both his job security  and returning to full time
workI reassured him that I am happy to speak to his employer  if need  be in coming
weeks
Im not a medical professional and Im not taking away from the fact that Mr S was suffering
from mild depressive episode. But I do find it likely, based on the consultants  comments  at
the time that his anxiety  was situational  and not severe enough to meet  the definition of
incapacity. Its also understandable  that Mr S would  have taken  some time for him to get
used to the working environment again. In any event,  the consultant noted  that Mr S had
shown a significant improvement at the time. This is also supported in the consultants letter
dated 9 November 2017 as they said Mr S;
had done very welland  he will continue to have barriers to recover from his
depressive episode. Howeverhe should have a graded return  to workwould
anticipate that if followed,  he will make a good clinical recovery and his previous
functioning should gradually return
However, the consultant didnt say that their opinion that the phased  return to work,  starting
part-time, moving  onto full time within  six weeks had changed.
Unum would, however, have  been responsible for proportionate payments for the period of
phased return to work. The expectation here was Mr S would start full-time work  within six
weeks as suggested by his consultant psychiatrist. Based on the information, Ive found
Unums decision to cover  payments up to September 2017 put Mr S in a better position than
if hed been receiving a proportionate benefit under the policy up to that point.  And, in
covering any payments until September  2017, would have been in line with the timeline
Ref: DRN16125175provided by the consultant.
As Unum has reasonably terminated the claim when it did, any further absence would be
treated as a new, or a linked claim.  Unum has explained to this service  that Mr S employer
hasnt raised  a new claim for absence, and theres no further medical evidence to suggest
Mr S couldnt  complete his phased return to work.
new information  provided
Mr S provided  our investigator with the following to support  why he couldnt return to work on
a full-time basis:
- Sick note dated 13 February 2019  undergoing  gastric  investigations and
treatmentsaltered hoursconsider part time [employment] until physically able to
return to full time hours
- Sick note dated 29 May 2019  Anxiety and Depressionaltered  hourscurrently
works for 6 hours per day, may be ready for full time work  within  3 months.
However, Im not going  to consider the above evidence  as part of this claim.  I say this
because these  relate to a new or a linked period  of absence. Mr S may still be entitled to
make a new or a linked claim and he would  need to discuss  this with his employer. Where
hes been working  reduced hours,  he could be entitled to a proportionate benefit. Im
satisfied that if a claim was to be raised  again, Unum would need to consider it in line with
the terms and conditions of the policy. So, I make no findings in relation to these
circumstances.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  not upholding  Mr S complaint so Im recommending that Unum Ltd dont  do
anything further in relation  to this claim.
I now invite  both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make,  in writing
by 23 October  2019, after which I will issue my final decision.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1612517