K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Northern Bank Limited  (Northern) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr V was sold a PPI policy with a credit card in 2007. The policy  protected his card 
repayments if he couldnt work because of an accident, sickness  or unemployment. The 
policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators  
view so the case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Vs case.  Having  done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr V says that the PPI policy wasnt discussed  with him and was added  by Northern without 
his knowledge.
Northern has provided a copy of the credit card agreement that Mr V signed. Theres a 
section on this dealing  with PPI. I can see that theres a handwritten  tick to indicate that PPI 
 described as optional  was required.  And Mr V has signed  in the place provided at the 
bottom of this section.  I can also see that optional card protection  has not been chosen.  So 
from what Ive seen,  I think  Mr V would have known  at the time that the PPI cover was 
optional and actively decided to take it. But this sale took place some  time ago and I can 
understand why he may not remember this now.
Northern recommended the PPI policy to Mr V. This means it needed to ensure that it was 
suitable for him. I dont know all the steps  it took to do this. But from what I know  about 
Mr Vs circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. 
I say this because:
He appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr V says he didnt need the cover that the policy provided because  he was in a secure 
job and entitled  to generous sick pay from his employer. But this policy would have paid 
out in addition to these other means and for longer  than he was entitled to full sick pay 
from his employer. So I still think he would  have valued the additional  security  the PPI 
gave him if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable  for Mr V. And as the premiums  were 
paid monthly, he could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met his needs.
Ref: DRN15667952Northern also needed to ensure that it gave Mr V enough information about the PPI policy 
for him to decide if it he wanted to take it. I think its likely that the information Northern gave 
him wasnt as good as it should have been. But for much the same reasons that I dont think 
the policy was unsuitable for Mr V, I dont think that better information would have changed 
his mind about taking  it. I think  hed still have thought the policy gave him useful benefits at 
an affordable cost.
So I dont  think that Mr V has lost out by anything that Northern  may have done wrong when  
it sold him the PPI.
This means  that Northern doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr V.
But Northern offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr V because  it got a high 
level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have 
told Mr V about that. Because  Northern didnt tell Mr V, that was unfair.
I understand that Northern has already made  a compensation payment to Mr V in respect of 
the high level of commission and profit share it got. But Northern now says the amount it 
calculated and paid to Mr V under its original offer requires revision.  So Northern has said it 
will make a further offer to Mr V to pay the additional  amount in compensation he is due  
and I think that this further offer is fair in this case.  
my final decision
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr V.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr V any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. So if it hasnt already done so, I now direct  
that Northern  Bank Limited should  pay Mr V any additional compensation which  he is due as 
a result of the revision its made to the original  compensation offer which  I understand it has 
already paid to him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1566795