K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains about the service shes received from Shop Direct  Finance Company 
Limited (SDF) in relation to her catalogue shopping  account. 
background
Mrs G says she bought  a laptop computer  through her account  with SDF in 2015.  She says 
the laptop developed  a fault in 2017. She says she waited too long for it to be inspected and 
for a decision to be made about how to deal with the matter.  And she says due to the delay 
she had to buy another laptop.
Mrs G also says she was eventually offered a replacement  laptop. But she says shed prefer 
to receive a cash settlement, in the circumstances.
SDF says Mrs G bought the laptop  on 1 July 2015. It says the retailer doesnt sell 
refurbished items, so theres  no question of it being unsatisfactory  when it was sent to her 
brand new in an unused condition. It says its found no evidence  to show  Mrs G disputed  the 
condition of the laptop after delivery. And it says when Mrs G first raised her concerns  with 
the retailer in 2017 about the laptop becoming  faulty, it was inspected  and agreed that it had 
inherited a fault.
Our investigator thought Mrs Gs complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs G disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She said her main point is that through  
no fault of her own, she had to buy a new laptop, due to the requirements of a member of 
her family. And she said if the laptop was beyond economical repair,  it shouldnt have taken 
six to eight weeks to establish this.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs G bought her laptop with finance  from SDF, so it was responsible for ensuring the laptop 
was of satisfactory quality  at that time.
I see Mrs G bought the laptop  in 2015  and she reported the fault that led to it needing to be 
replaced in 2017.  I also see it was supplied to her new. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account Im satisfied the laptop  wasnt faulty when it was 
supplied and that the fault developed much later. So, in these circumstances it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to hold SDF responsible for what happened.
It appears to me that Mrs Gs complaint is more about the actions  of the warranty  company 
after she reported the fault to it in 2017. I appreciate she feels  strongly about this matter. 
But, as our investigators explained,  the warranty company isnt a business  that falls under 
the jurisdiction of this service. And this means  I cant make a decision about its handling of 
Mrs Gs warranty  claim.
Ref: DRN10362132So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint against  Shop Direct Finance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN1036213