K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained about how Cigna Insurance Services  (Europe) Limited dealt with her 
claim for medical  assistance under her travel insurance policy when she fell ill whilst  on a 
cruise in the Middle East with her daughter. Mrs R is represented  by her daughter Ms R, who 
also has a power of attorney in respect  of Mrs R.
References to Cigna include all its medical  assistance team  representatives.
background
Mrs R fell ill with abdominal problems on 1 February  2018.  The cruise  ship medical team  felt 
it might  be a perforated  bowel issue  and advised  that Mrs R should be transferred to hospital 
on land. Ms R duly alerted  Cigna  who involved  their medical assistance  team.
The initial hospital  where Mrs R was admitted to, chosen by the cruise ship,  was remote. Its 
doctor said it wouldnt have the facilities to help Mrs R and she should be transferred  to 
another country within the Middle East for surgery.
This doctor told Ms R, her mother needed surgery within five hours, however the travel 
arrangements (to include visa requirements  etc.) by road obviously took much  longer that. 
Ms R said this was the fault of Cigna, as it failed to action the arrangements quick  enough, 
putting her mothers life at risk.
Mrs R had her operation and was fitted  with an intermediate stoma  bag, and required a 
colonoscopy before potentially  further surgery. Initially Mrs R was in intensive  care and then 
put on a ward. Ms R said nursing standards were  poor with Mrs R often being covered in 
faeces for hours and with her bed and nightclothes being inadequately  cleaned,
And obviously then Ms R simply wanted  her mother to be brought  home.
It took some time for Cigna to confirm Mrs R claim was covered for this claim. Finally, Mrs R 
and her daughter  were  repatriated home  on 18 February with a nurse  escort, where Mrs R 
was then admitted  to hospital in the UK.
Ms R on behalf of her mother complained about  how Cignas medical assistance dealt with 
her claim for medical assistance. 
Ms R said she wasnt called  back when  promised by the medical  team. She was very upset 
at the initial  delay in transferring her mother from the first hospital  to operating hospital in 
another country. She then also thought  Cignas communication  with that operating hospital 
was poor and consequently it wasnt aware  of her mothers care at times. Therefore  was an 
apparent disagreement between Cignas  medical  team and the hospital on Mrs Rs fitness 
to fly. Ms Rs hotel accommodation kept expiring. She had no phone signal and could only 
contact Cigna via Skype.
So Ms R complained to Cigna. Cigna agreed  the service received  by Mrs R and Ms R could 
have been better. Consequently, it paid £250  compensation. Ms R remained dissatisfied and 
brought her mothers complaint to us.
The adjudicator was of the view that Cigna had done enough.  Ms R didnt agree and so Mrs 
Rs complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN13203742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Mrs Rs policy provides  for medical and associated expenses not covered by the NHS or 
any reciprocal health agreement. Its not private medical insurance . If the policyholder, Mrs 
R here, fell ill, Cigna pays for the costs of any medical treatment. It also pays the cost of 
getting the policyholder home,  if its medically necessary. It also pays  the travel and 
accommodation costs  of one relative or friend, here being Ms R, if the treating doctor  and 
its medical assistance provider think thats necessary.
The medical assistance provider may move  the policyholder from one hospital to another,  
and/or arrange  for the policyholder to come home  at any time. They will do this if they and 
the treating doctor think that its safe to do so.
So essentially, like almost  every  travel policy, Mrs Rs policy with Cigna insured the costs of 
necessary medical  treatment if she fell ill or was injured on her trip. It isnt though, a private 
medical policy.
I can understand how desperately worried Ms R was about  her mothers illness,  which  
required surgery. I can also understand how distressing it was to hear she required surgery  
and needed to be moved from one country to another  for that surgery within the Middle East.
However, Cigna  like every travel insurer merely deals with the situation thats provided to it, 
at the time. Its primary duty is to provide cover  for the medical  costs  involved provided of 
course those costs are medical necessary.
When Ms R first phoned  Cigna from the cruise ship to explain her mother was ill, Cigna sent 
the information pack and activated  its local agent  for medical  and financial information.  This 
local agent explained to Cigna that this country  didnt  permit medical information to be given 
out over the phone or by email. So the quickest way to get Cigna the medical report  it 
required was in person. Normally though medical  reports were only provided when the 
patient was being discharged. 
This hospital was also over 600 km from the capital. Further the particular agent hadnt  dealt 
with this hospital before, given it was in such a remote location. Therefore, he was going  to 
try to get some other local contacts to get some of the information Cigna required. That 
same day Ms R managed  to have to the doctor  talk with the medical  assistance  team  and it 
was agreed to transfer Mrs R to the hospital  in the other country for treatment. Cignas notes 
of this call clearly say its this doctor who says the transfer should be by road - around two 
and half hours away.  Its file also shows it then actively began  to arrange for an urgent 
transfer of Mrs R by ambulance noting that Ms R would be travelling with her. It organised  
the hospital in the other country and the ambulance  to meet at the border. And it began  
sourcing places for Ms R to stay once she and her mother made it to this other country.
Theres no evidence that Cigna unreasonably delayed  in organising this. It simply doesnt 
appear to have been possible to transport Mrs R within the five hours this doctor told Ms R 
was required,  given the hospital in the other  country needed to confirm  it was willing to take 
Mrs R and indeed operate on her. So I dont think Cigna did anything wrong here, as theres 
Ref: DRN13203743no evidence to show that it did. Ms Rs phone didnt  work in this country, which  made 
everything so much  more  frustrating, however  I cant  blame  Cigna for that.
Ms R said Cignas medical assistance team  should have other ways for her to contact it, for 
example via various apps. However, I do think both phone and email are sufficient, both 
being relatively immediate and therefore adequate. Again, it wasnt the fault of Cigna or its 
medical team that Ms Rs phone didnt work  in this country.
It was of course a deeply distressing time for Ms R and indeed  her mother was critically ill, 
but I consider  Cigna fulfilled its duty under the policy in transferring Mrs R to a hospital  
where she could  have the required  operation. Mrs Rs medical condition at the time was life 
threatening but again Cigna didnt cause  that, no one did.
Theres no evidence that Cigna was aware of the nursing  standards of the hospital following 
Mrs Rs operation until the pre-reparation  process. Ms R feels  Cigna should have been  
known about this all the way through.  However it would have only known about it had Ms R 
told it about her concerns.  And this policy  isnt a private medical policy  and so Cignas duties 
are to ensure Mrs R got the necessary treatment, which  it did by transferring her to a 
hospital that could do the required operation.  And then its duties are to get her home when it 
was safe to do so.
The treating  doctor felt Mrs R was fit to fly well before Cignas medical team  did. This 
obviously caused more  frustration for Mrs R and indeed Ms R. However, it appears this was 
all to do with Mrs Rs oxygen  saturation levels.  Cignas medical team  required  her to have 
better levels for flying than her treating doctor. As Cignas medical team  are involved with 
arranging people to be repatriated all the time, they obviously have far more experience of 
this and since its their responsibility,  they are entitled to ensure their requirements  are met 
before the flight home occurs. Therefore, I dont consider Cigna did anything wrong in 
ensuring Mrs Rs oxygen  saturation  levels were appropriate for the flight home.  
Dealing with Ms Rs accommodation issues, Cigna did provide this and there is only one 
instance where it wasnt appropriately  extended, namely on 13 February.  Cigna has 
apologised for this.
Cigna also did delay  in confirming Mrs Rs situation was covered fully under the policy. It 
also requested Ms R to send it things that she had already sent, such  as the copy of the 
Power of Attorney. Whilst at the same  being  aware of Ms Rs difficult  communication issues,  
I consider it could have  made things easier. Cigna also thought  it should have made things 
easier, so it paid £250 compensation to Mrs R.
Mrs R is the policyholder and as such, compensation is only payable  to her for her distress.  
Its clear from reading Ms Rs diary  of events that she obviously ensured Mrs R was 
protected from much of what was going  on. Its clear too at times  Ms R was understandable 
very worried and indeed deeply  distressed too. Her mother was seriously ill and they were 
both a long way from home and the comfort  of medical treatment with which  they were 
familiar. But it remains the fact, that I can only award compensation to Mrs R for her distress  
given she was the policyholder.
I think Cigna  was right to admit that things could have made easier at times. It paid £250 
compensation for this. In these  circumstances,  I consider thats  adequate  compensation and 
indeed a similar amount  I would have awarded,  had Cigna not already done  so. 
Ref: DRN13203744I appreciate Ms R had the most dreadful  of times and that her mother  was very seriously ill, 
which was naturally significantly distressing. But I do consider Cigna fulfilled its duties under 
the policy, by ensuring Mrs R was able to have the operation she required, and it then got 
her home when it was safe in its view to do so. Its duties under this policy arent  the same as 
a private medical  insurance policy. Primarily  its duties are to cover the costs of the required 
medical treatment and to enable  the required medical treatment to happen and then to bring 
the policyholder  home. All of which it did.
my final decision
So whilst I appreciate  Ms R will be disappointed  with my decision, its my final decision  that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1320374