K820x#14complaint
Mr F made a claim on his travel insurance policy. Hes unhappy  with how long it took Sirius 
International Insurance Corporation to investigate his claim, and the decision to ultimately 
decline it. All references to Sirius includes its claims handlers. 
background
Mr F took out a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Sirius,  at the end of September 
2018. It covered  a three week holiday, abroad, he was going on at the start of October 2018.
Mr F says, whilst abroad, he was injured  having  fallen off his bike. He says he was taken to 
a medical facility where he underwent  an x-ray and scans, before  being  treated. He also 
says he stayed there for three days. 
After returning  from his holiday,  Mr F made  a claim  on his policy  to cover the medical  
treatment he says he paid the medial  facility in the region of £25,000.  Sirius initially  
considered that the costs claimed were very high considering the treatment Mr F received. It 
raised some questions with its agents about  the costs of the treatment  in the country  where 
Mr F was on holiday. This led to further  investigations, which went  on for over a year.  
Mr F raised  multiple  concerns with Sirius about  how long the investigation was taking, and 
as the investigation hadnt concluded by June  2019,  he complained to us.
Before our investigator provided  a view on whether  he thought Sirius had unfairly and 
unreasonably delayed deciding whether to pay his claim,  in February 2020, Sirius confirmed 
to our Service that Mr Fs claim  had been  declined on the basis  that Mr F had fraudulently  
misrepresented his claim.
Sirius didnt provide  Mr F with a claims decision directly, but Sirius  did agree to our 
investigator communicating  its claims decision to Mr F on its behalf, and the reasons for the 
decline. And our investigator duly set out a summary  for Sirius declination in his opinion 
letter dated  6 March 2020. Based on the evidence obtained as part of the investigation, our 
investigator didnt  think  Sirius had unfairly  delayed making a claims decision. Nor did he 
think the ultimate decision to decline the claim was unfair.
Mr F didnt  agree so his complaint  has been passed  to me to consider everything afresh and 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
Sirius has an obligation to handle claims  made  on the travel insurance policy fairly and 
promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
delay in providing claims decision
When reviewing these  types of claims,  insurers are entitled to carry out reviews to ensure  
the policyholder   in this case Mr F - satisfies the relevant terms within  the policy.  This can 
include gathering  further medical evidence and sometimes conducting its own investigation.
Ref: DRN16635562It did take Sirius over a year to investigate  Mr Fs claim. I accept thats  a long time. However, 
Sirius has provided us with evidence of its investigation. Im satisfied that it was proactively 
investigating the circumstances of the claim and where further investigations were 
commissioned, they were  necessary considering  the issues being explored,  and in light of 
how the investigation unfolded. 
Further information was being obtained  at various  times, through  different channels, and this 
needed to be considered  carefully, and further  investigated / verified. On the occasions when 
Sirius investigating agents hadnt  come back to Sirius for a while, Sirius chased them and 
set reasonable  timescales. And I dont think anything  Sirius did during this time 
unreasonably delayed the investigation.
Sirius didnt provide  Mr F with much detail  about  how the investigation  was unfolding and the 
information being obtained,  and I dont think that was unreasonable in this particular case as 
to do so may have  impacted the ongoing investigation. I say that because Sirius was 
concerned that the claim was fraudulent or had been misrepresented.
However, its investigating agents did meet with Mr F in the Spring of 2019 to ask him some  
further questions  about his recollection of events. And Im satisfied that he was kept updated 
throughout about the fact that it was continuing to investigate his claim and he was told that 
it would  revert to him once it was in a position to be able to make  a decision. Whilst, these 
updates were invariably  in response  to Mr F chasing  Sirius  frequently, sometimes weekly,  for 
a response, it responded reasonably promptly to his emails. 
the claims decision
The policy includes  the following terms:
General Conditions
10. you must  comply  with all the terms, provisions, conditions  and endorsements of this
insurance. Failure to do so may result in a claim being declined.
16. if you or anyone acting on your behalf makes  any claim knowing it to be false or 
fraudulent in any way then this insurance  shall become void, premiums  non-refundable  and 
all claim shall be forfeited.
Sirius has declined the claim on the basis that Mr F fraudulently misrepresented  his claim. 
Based on the totality of evidence gathered as part of the investigation, Im satisfied that this 
was a reasonable outcome for Sirius to reach. Ill explain why.
Mr F says he was hospitalised for three  days starting the day of the bike accident.  The 
medical invoice  on the headed paper of the medical  facility dated 11 October  2018  supports 
this, and that he received treatment during that time. 
However, thats inconsistent with documentary evidence that was obtained as part of Sirius 
investigation which suggests Mr F checked  into resort accommodation on the second day, 
he says he was in the medical  facility. Further, the investigating agents made enquiries and 
reported that this facility  stopped operating months  before Mr F says he was there and 
wouldve been closed  at the time he says he was treated  there. The investigation  also 
Ref: DRN16635563revealed that it was a GP facility and not a medical clinic or hospital;  and unlikely to have 
had the facilities  required to carry out x-rays or provide overnight accommodation/care.
The investigation also indicates that the attending  physician  whose name  appears  on the 
medical report and invoice - was working at a different hospital albeit in the same area. This 
doctor was interviewed,  and he said hed never  worked at the medical  facility  mentioned  on 
the invoice and couldnt recall treating Mr F.
The investigation also revealed that the invoice provided by Mr F was identical, apart from 
the name of the person being treated, to another invoice that had been  submitted as part of 
a different,  seemingly unconnected, insurance claim.
Im conscious that Mr F hasnt been  provided  with the evidence obtained as part of the 
investigation and hasnt had an opportunity to review and comment  on documents.  He did 
ask for certain documents referred  to in our investigators report  to be provided to him and 
our investigator informed Mr F that he was free to make a statutory request to Sirius  for 
copies of these  documents.  I understand that he hasnt done that to date.
However, I think he was given a fair opportunity to comment on the key issues  which formed 
part of Siriuss investigation. Mr F was interviewed as part of the investigation and some of 
the questions  did focus around  the circumstances of the bike incident, the treatment he 
received, his recovery after being discharged from the medial facility and where he stayed 
thereafter. I can see that this evidence was considered as part of Sirius investigations, and 
indeed led to a supplementary investigation  being  carried out. And I think  that was a 
reasonable action for Sirius to take.  
So, all in all, based on everything that was available to Sirius   and even though  Mr F hasnt 
had an opportunity to view and comment on all of the documentary evidence obtained as 
part of the investigation  on the balance of probabilities  I think  Sirius has fairly and 
reasonably concluded that Mr F made  a fraudulent claim on the policy.  And I think  it fairly 
relied upon the policy terms to decline the claim. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1663556