K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Legal & General  Insurance Limited has handled her home insurance 
claim poorly,  treated  her unfairly, and caused delays.
background
In May 2017, a tree fell from Ms Ls neighbours garden  and damaged her home. Ms L made 
a claim on her Automobile Association (AA) buildings insurance policy. Legal and General 
are the insurers that underwrite  her AA policy, so its responsible for her claim and this 
complaint. Ms Ls neighbours, who were  responsible for the tree, were  also insured by        
Legal and General.
In June 2018, Ms L referred a complaint to this service. She outlined the following points:
-Ms L believes  the incident to be her neighbours fault. She didnt want  to claim on her 
own policy or for her no claims discount  to be affected. Ms L says although she was 
told by her neighbours her policy wouldnt be affected, Legal and General told her 
she had to make her own claim, and it wouldnt give her information about her 
neighbours claim. Ms L is unhappy her no claims discount was lost, and her 
premium increased, as a result of her claim.
-Ms L expected a structural  engineer  to attend her property, but Legal and General 
appointed loss adjusters instead.
-Ms L says the loss adjusters  told her a structural engineer would only be appointed if 
the value of the damage exceeded  £20,000,  but she could appoint her own engineer 
if she wished, and the associated costs would  be covered if structural  damage was 
identified. She says the loss adjusters later denied that this was a policy and a 
structural engineer  was then appointed.
-The structural engineer visited Ms Ls property in June 2017. She says since  the visit, 
she hasnt received the level of service she expected. Ms L says her emails  werent 
responded to, and promised calls werent received. 
-Ms L says she spent many hours trying to find her own structural engineer  before the 
loss adjusters agreed to appoint someone; and she also spent time obtaining quotes 
for her windows, which werent  then acted on.
-Ms L says the loss adjusters  asked her to obtain  quotes for her windows, which she 
provided in September 2017.  Ms L says it wasnt until December 2017 that she was 
asked for a further breakdown of the quotes, which  she provided in February  2018,  
but these still havent  been accepted.
-Ms L says she had no use of her garden during the summer months until the council 
fixed the fence.  She says the broken fence meant her neighbours dog was entering 
her garden, and shes dog-phobic. Ms L also says she hasnt had proper  use of her 
home. Shes explained the living area still has wallpaper hanging-off where cracks 
had been identified; and her family had to endure a cold winter  with only heaters, 
because the heating system was damaged in the incident. Ms L noted  that her 
daughter is asthmatic.
Ref: DRN18554012-Ms L had to buy two heaters, pay for a gas engineer to inspect her boiler, and cover 
increased electricity bills. She requested a third heater in December 2017, but she 
was instead asked to obtain a gas engineers report to show her boiler wasnt 
working.
-Ms L has requested,  and still not received, a copy of the structural engineers report. 
She says she needs a copy of this to make  an informed  decision on the settlement 
options and to obtain building quotes.
-Legal and General  informed Ms L that theres no cover  under her buildings policy for 
her loss of earnings as a result of dealing with the claim. She asked AA to confirm if 
she was responsible for pursuing her neighbour for those losses herself, and if she 
has any legal expenses  cover which would help. Ms L says she hasnt received a 
response from AA.
-Ms L explained that, despite her efforts to raise a complaint with legal and General, 
she still hadnt received a response.
Legal and General responded to Ms Ls complaint in July 2018. It acknowledged there had 
been a two-month delay between the engineers visit and when the loss adjusters actioned  
the engineers  report and informed Ms L of her settlement options. Legal and General also 
acknowledged Ms L had then provided  it with quotes, but despite her chasing  on several 
occasions, she didnt  receive a response for four months. Finally,  it noted there had also 
been a further three-month delay  after Ms L had provided a further breakdown  for her 
quotes, until in May 2018, when she was advised  of the options available  to her.
Legal and General offered  Ms L £500 to apologise for the delays and the unacceptable  
levels of service. It also reiterated that the options  outlined to her in May 2018  were still 
available  she had been offered £139.99  for the two heaters and £108 for the boiler  
inspection by the gas engineer; and in respect  of the repairs,  she was offered:
-£7,748.47,  plus £1,549.70 for VAT on receipt  of VAT invoices, or
-Legal and Generals  approved glazing company to visit and quote for replacement 
like-for-like windows   to see if the amount  included in the cash settlement offer for 
the windows could be increased.
Ms L clarified the delays during the claim werent her only concern, and she pointed  towards  
the complaint  letter  she had sent to this service. She also highlighted she had only obtained  
quotes for her windows;  and she reiterated  she couldnt organise the other repairs  without 
first seeing  the engineers report. Ms L made the point that, whilst  the schedule  of repairs 
had been provided during the claim,  she had also requested the report.  Ms L also said   
Legal and General had since  agreed to clarify  the next steps on the claim with the loss 
adjusters, but she hadnt heard anything further.
When providing us with its file, Legal and General told us that it had abandoned  the recovery  
of Ms Ls claim costs because  there wasnt any evidence the neighbour had been negligent. 
It explained the contractor who dealt with the tree confirmed there was no sign of disease 
and it had collapsed  due to sodden ground.
Ref: DRN18554013Ms Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators,  but she didnt think  it should  be 
upheld. She didnt think the neighbour could reasonably be held responsible for the incident, 
and she thought £500 was a fair acknowledgement of the issues  that arose. She also noted 
Ms L had been  reimbursed for the costs of her boiler engineer  and two heaters  and she 
thought the settlement options  given to Ms L in May 2018 were fair. Our investigator also 
provided Ms L with the structural engineers report so she could move forward.  
Ms L disagreed with our investigator. She made  the following additional points: 
-Ms L disputed the incident wasnt her neighbours  fault  she argued that if the tree 
had been properly maintained it wouldnt have hit her property. 
-Ms L explained it was known from the outset that a pipe connecting to her boiler had 
been damaged,  so she was scared about using her heating.  She made  the point she 
wasnt asked to arrange an inspection of her boiler until January 2018. Ms L noted  
she was still waiting  to be reimbursed  £108 for her heating  engineer,  and she also 
explained she could  provide her electricity bill for the period she was using the 
heaters if needed, in respect of her heating costs.
-Ms L questioned why she wasnt  told from the outset that quotes from certain high-
end window companies wouldnt be considered, and she highlighted her top-level 
windows had been fitted by one of the companies she obtained a quote from. Ms L 
also noted she was frustrated she had been asked to obtain  a further breakdown  
when she couldnt use the companies in question. She also explained she was 
unclear on what would happen if Legal and General appointed its own glazing 
company to quote for the window replacements.
-Ms L said although the loss adjusters had asked for her deeds to determine if the 
damaged fence could be included in her claim, the request was embedded in an 
email that was sent to her three months  after the loss adjusters visit.
-Ms L provided hand-written notes  to show she had made enquires to find her own 
structural engineer   to support she was told this was her responsibility.
-Ms L explained that she had received Legal  and Generals  £500  complaint settlement 
offer, but she had no intention of cashing the cheque because  she didnt accept the 
outcome.
Because Ms L disagreed  with our investigator, the complaint has now been  passed to me for 
a final decision.
Legal and General has since  clarified its cash settlement offer was incorrect  due to errors on 
its spreadsheet. In the calculation, an item of work had been duplicated and another omitted. 
An amount  for the fence also needed  to be removed as it was repaired by the council. The 
correct cash settlement figure is £8,675.35,  plus a further £1,735.07  for VAT on receipt of 
VAT invoices.
Ref: DRN18554014my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
I can understand Ms Ls upset that an incident outside of her control damaged  her home  and 
led to a claim on her insurance  policy. But Legal  and General could  only assess  her damage 
and consider her repairs if she made a claim on the policy that insured her property. Ms Ls 
neighbours policy is specific to their property, and it doesnt cover her home. I also accept  
what Legal and General  says about  recovering Ms Ls claim costs. I havent been told 
anything that persuades  me Legal and General could have reasonably shown  the 
neighbours were  at fault.
I have reviewed Ms Ls buildings insurance  policy. Her policy doesnt cover lost income as a 
result of dealing with a claim or cover the cost of pursuing a third party  for losses. But, if she 
believes she also had a separate legal  expenses insurance policy with AA, then she could 
make further  enquiries with it  but thats  not something I can consider here as part of her 
complaint against  Legal  and General, which is about  her buildings  insurance claim.
Ms L has also expressed dissatisfaction at the price AA quoted  when her buildings  insurance 
policy was up for renewal.  However,  this is something Ms L will need to complain  separately  
about, to AA, if she remains unhappy. Again, thats  not something  I can consider here. But 
as noted, Im satisfied  that it was fair for Legal and General to deal with the incident  and 
damage as a claim on her policy.
I will now consider the other  points  Ms L has made under the following two headings: claim 
delays and service; and settlement options.
claim delays  and service
Legal and General has acknowledged that theres  been about a nine-month  delay and a lack 
of service. Ive also considered the other points made by Ms L, the impact  on her, and what                
I consider to be fair compensation.
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Legal and General to appoint loss adjusters in the first 
instance; to manage  the claim and decide  what other experts or trades  were  needed. Ms L 
says she was told she had to appoint her own structural engineer  and given her hand-
written notes showing her search  for an engineer, on balance,  I accept what  she says.
Ive seen that Ms L requested the structural engineers report  on numerous occasions, but a 
copy wasnt provided to her until our investigator became involved. I can understand why 
she was reluctant to start obtaining  her own quotes  for the building  repairs  until she had 
seen the report  and been assured of what repairs  were required. I dont consider Ms Ls 
request for a copy  of the report  to have been  unreasonable.
Ref: DRN18554015I also agree  with Ms L that she should  have been told to get her boiler  inspected  at the start 
of the claim, rather than relying on heaters. She was only asked  to do this after six months.    
I accept living with limited  heating,  particularly  during the winter  months, would  have been  
inconvenient and upsetting. Ms L isnt the expert here, and her concern about using her 
heating given the damage to the pipe, was in my view, understandable.
However, Im not persuaded that Legal and General was responsible  for repairing the fence, 
or for the dog entering Ms Ls garden. Ive not been told or shown anything that persuades 
me the fence was her responsibility. I do accept the loss adjusters werent clear about  the 
fence and Ms L was waiting on further  guidance.  But equally, if she was concerned about 
security and safety, given  only one fence panel  was damaged,  Im persuaded she could 
have organised the repair herself and claimed her costs back  later.
I acknowledge Ms L is frustrated that Legal and General hasnt accepted  her window quotes, 
but it isnt under an obligation to do so if it doesnt consider them to be competitively  priced  
or for like-for-like replacements. Legal  and General is offering to replace the windows on a 
like-for-like specification through one of its approved contractors, so its liability  is limited to 
the amount it would be charged to do the work. Legal  and General has estimated its costs 
based on its approved contractor  rates,  but its also offered to obtain  a tailored estimate for 
the windows from its approved  glazing  company, to see if the cash  settlement  offer can be 
increased. At this stage,  I cant reasonably decide Legal and General needs  to do anything  
more. If Legal and Generals approved glazing company provides a tailored estimate, but   
Ms L doesnt consider it to be based  on like-for-like replacements, she can then make a 
further complaint.  But at this time,  I havent  been told anything  that leads me to believe  
Legal and General isnt offering like-for-like replacements  via one of its approved 
contractors.
In respect of the delays after the loss adjusters  received the structural engineers report,  Ive 
seen there  were times  the loss adjusters  tried to contact Ms L without success. Ive also not 
seen that Ms L was consistently chasing  either  Legal and General or the loss adjusters, but 
rather there were periods  without contact from her. So, whilst  I accept Legal  and General is 
responsible for the initial two-month delay, and it contributed to the delays that followed, Im 
not persuaded it was solely responsible. 
In addition to the points  Ms L has made, Im also mindful that she was given incorrect cash  
settlement offers.  In August 2017  and May 2018,  she was quoted  £7,748 plus VAT; and in 
December 2017  she was quoted £6,457  plus VAT. The amount should have been £8,675 
plus VAT. 
In conclusion, although I havent agreed with all the points Ms L has made, I accept  theres 
been multiple issues during her claim which Legal  and General is responsible  for. Namely,  
there was an avoidable  period Ms L was without normal heating; there were considerable 
delays during the claim; she had to chase unreasonable amounts; and shes  been given 
wrong information. However,  overall,  Im satisfied £500 is fair compensation for the upset 
that can reasonably  be said to have been  caused  by these issues given Ms Ls property  
wasnt unhabitable  or without the main amenities. But rather,  the damage is external or 
largely decorative.
settlement options
Ms L has explained that she isnt sure of the next steps. So, I will outline  them  here: 
Ref: DRN18554016-Legal and General  has previously  offered to reimburse Ms L £139.99 for the heaters 
she purchased, and £108 for her boiler  engineer. So, if shes not yet been  settled 
these costs, she needs to let Legal and General know. 
-If Ms L believes  her utility bills increased  due to her using electric heaters, rather  than 
her boiler, she should present her costs to Legal and General so it can consider this 
aspect of her claim.
-In respect of the repairs,  Ms L can either accept £8,675.35, plus a further £1,735.07 
for VAT on receipt  of VAT invoices; or allow Legal and Generals approved glazing 
company to provide a window quote to see if this part of the cash settlement  offer 
can be increased; or allow Legal and Generals approved contractor to do the 
repairs; or submit further quotes for Legal  and Generals  consideration.
-The structural engineers report notes that the roof couldnt be inspected due to there  
being limited access. However, once access is facilitated during the other  repairs  (the 
schedule of repairs includes  scaffolding), should damage to the roof be identified,  
Legal and General  will need  to give this consideration.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms L. But for the reasons explained above,  I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1855401