K821x#15complaint
Miss K has complained  that Decidebloom  Limited mis-sold her two payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies  alongside two personal  loans.
background
Miss K took out the PPI policies in June  2009 and October 2010 during meetings in a car 
dealership.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint about  the first sale, but not the second sale. 
Decidebloom disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  . Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided to partly uphold Miss Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
The 2009  sale
At the time of the sale Miss K had only been  working for one month and prior to that she had 
been a stay at home mum. The policy terms state:
You qualify  for cover provided  that you will not reach 65 years  of age during the term of your 
finance agreement  and that at the start  date you:
3) are working in the UK and have been  so for the previous 6 months in a row.
Decidebloom has provided a copy  of the demands  and needs  questionnaire from the sale. 
Miss K was asked: Have you been  in full time employment for at least  6 consecutive  
months? to which she ticked the No box in response.  Next to this the adviser has written: 
claimable from six months. However  I think that the adviser has misunderstood the terms of 
the policy.
Decidebloom says that Miss K would have become eligible to claim on the policy from the 
point when she had been working continuously for six months and that the adviser correctly 
pointed this out to her. But the policy doesnt  say that. The policy terms are clear that, in 
order to be eligible for the policy, it is the consumers  length of employment at the inception 
of the policy  that is the only factor in deciding eligibility. Nowhere in the policy  does it say 
that a consumer can subsequently  become  eligible  during the life of the cover.
As Miss K wasnt  eligible  for the policy, Decidebloom should not have sold it to her. 
I therefore consider  that the PPI was mis-sold to Miss K in 2009.  So Decidebloom will need 
to put things right in the way detailed  below.
Ref: DRN11518342The 2010  sale
In October  2010 Miss K was still in the same  job and of course by now had been  working  for more 
than six months. So Im satisfied that at this point  she met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
Miss K has said that she didnt know she had the policy  and therefore it must  have been 
added without her knowledge  or consent. But Ive seen the paperwork from the time of the 
sale. There is a demands  and needs questionnaire which  just relates to the PPI and in which 
the policy is described as optional.  Miss K seems  to have elected a certain level of cover and 
whether or not she wanted a single premium or regular premium  policy. So it appears that 
there must have been some discussion about  the policy. The sale happened a long time ago 
and so it wouldnt be surprising if Miss Ks recollection of events has faded. Looking at the 
available evidence, overall I think that Miss K probably decided to buy the policy,  knowing 
that she didnt  have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Decidebloom didnt advise Miss K to take out the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it 
met her needs. But it did need to provide her with enough information for her to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Miss K wouldnt have received any sick pay from her job. And she didnt have any savings to 
fall back on. So I think the policy could have  provided a useful benefit at what  would have 
been a difficult  time.
The PPI application  form displayed the four different levels of cover  together  with the cost for 
each. Miss K has chosen to have life, accident,  sickness and unemployment cover at a cost 
of £37.15 per month. The form also shows the total amount that would be paid in premiums 
if the policy remained active throughout the life of the finance agreement. Im satisfied that 
Miss K would have  known  what the cost of the policy would be prior to deciding to buy it.
Its possible that Decidebloom didnt provide as much information about  the policy as it 
should have, particularly about  the things that it didnt  cover.  But Miss K wasnt affected by 
any of those things.  As I think  she had an interest in the policy and decided  to buy it, I dont 
think that any further information would  have caused her to change her mind.  Therefore she 
isnt any worse off as a result of anything Decidebloom may have done wrong. So there  is 
nothing that Decidebloom  needs to do to put things right with regard  to the 2010 sale.
putting things right
With regard to the 2009 sale, Decidebloom  should  put Miss K in the position  shed be in now 
if she hadnt taken  out PPI. So Decidebloom should:
Pay Miss K the amount  she paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Decidebloom can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Decidebloom  to take off tax from this interest. 
Decidebloom must give Miss K a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
Ref: DRN11518343my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Miss Ks complaint in regard to the policy sold in 2009 and 
require Decidebloom Limited to pay compensation as detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1151834