K821x#15complaint
Mr Gs daughter on his behalf  has complained about Acromas Insurance  Company Limited.
She said it dealt with a third party claim poorly  and caused her father considerable distress
which caused his health to seriously  suffer.
background
Mr G bought a car insurance policy through a broker with the insurer,  Acromas. In June 2018
Acromas received a claim from a third party insurer (TPI). It contacted Mr G. He said he
wasnt aware of an incident.  But Mr G told Acromas hed been  contacted  by the police and
was aware of possible prosecution for leaving the scene of an incident.
Acromas sent an engineer to look at Mr Gs car. The engineer  reported  there  was light
damage but suggested Acromas compare this with the third partys claim.
In August  2018  the TPI sent Acromas CCTV footage which showed Mr G had collided into
the other car while  it was stationary at a petrol station. But Acromas  didnt review this
footage until the end of March 2019  after Mr G called it having received  a letter  from the
TPI directly.  This letter said it intended  to issue proceedings against Mr G if its claim costs
werent paid within the next 14 days.
I sent a provisional  decision  on 29 November 2019  which set out a summarised  timeline.
The TPI first provided CCTV footage which showed the incident in August 2018.  Mr Gs car
was moving slowly around the third partys car and as it did, the left rear of his car made
contact with the front left of the third partys  parked car.
In September  2018 Acromas replied to the TPI and asked it what  evidence it was relying on
to support its claim.
The TPI wrote to Acromas in October  2018. It said it sent CCTV footage in August. In
November 2018  the TPI again wrote that it had already provided CCTV footage. It also
provided a final notice advising that it would  issue proceedings in 14 days  if Acromas didnt
settle its claim costs.
On 23 January 2019 the TPI wrote and attached  a copy  of the CCTV footage.  Its letter said
the footage clearly shows Mr Gs car hit their insureds  car and asked Acromas to settle the
claim within 21 days.
In March 2019 the TPI wrote to Mr G directly giving him notice that it intended to issue
proceedings against him. Mr G called Acromas.
Mr Gs daughter told Acromas that her father  was found two days  after he called Acromas
having suffered  a stroke. A letter which hed written  to Acromas was found with him. Mr Gs
daughter believes  Acromas is directly responsible as she said its failure to deal with the
claim  and the letter Mr G received from the TPI  clearly caused him considerable stress.
Acromas apologised  to Mr Gs daughter  for its failings. It paid £200 compensation. It said it
wasnt possible to conclude that it was directly responsible  for Mr G suffering a stroke.  It said
it had defended Mr Gs position concerning the claim based  on the information he had
provided.
Ref: DRN12895912Mr Gs daughter asked us to look at her fathers  complaint. Our investigator thought
Acromas should increase  the compensation award it paid to £500.  
While she couldnt say that Acromas poor service was a direct result  of what  happened to 
Mr G, she thought it had contributed to his ill health.
Acromas accepted the investigators findings. Mr Gs daughter  doesnt  feel the overall
compensation sum of £500 is enough.  She said her fathers nursing home fees are over
£4,000 a month. To put things right, she believes Acromas should cover  between six months
and a years fees for Mr Gs nursing home.
In my provisional decision I thought Acromas should  increase the compensation it paid by 
£800 to £1,000 in total.  I didnt think  there was enough to say that Mr Gs ill health was 
directly caused by the actions of Acromas. But I thought it had contributed  to it.
Acromas hasnt provided any comments.  Mr Gs daughter is disappointed I havent referred 
to the actions of the broker in my decision as they are the party her father was dealing with 
during the claim. She believes either Acromas or the broker should  at the very least pay for 
seven months nursing  home fees for Mr G. 
So the case has been returned to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both my provisional decision and final decision  relate to the insurer as it is the business 
Mr G had the contract with. The broker acted  on behalf of the insurer when it handled  the 
claim. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr Gs daughter has said in reply to my provisional  decision. 
But having  done so, it hasnt changed my view. So my final decision remains  along the same 
lines.
I was very sorry to read what happened  to Mr G. I can appreciate  what an upsetting
experience this has been for Mr G and his family.
From what  Ive seen, its clear that Aromas handling of this claim was very poor.
There were multiple opportunities for Acromas to review the CCTV footage over more  than
seven months, and many requests from the TPI to do so. But it wasnt  until Mr G called it on
21 March 2019  that it appeared to realise the footage had been provided  twice before but
not reviewed.  The reason why Mr G called was because hed received a letter from the TPI
directly giving him notice  of its intention to begin  proceedings  against him if its costs  werent
settled in 14 days.
Mr Gs daughter has provided a copy of a letter which was hand written  by her father dated
21 March 2019  when he was found two days later having suffered a stroke.  Acromas said
when Mr G had called  on the same day, it had reassured him that it would deal with the letter
from the TPI and asked him to forward it.
Mr G had written  to Acromas;  I hope you deal with it (the TPI letter)  quick as I am stressed
Ref: DRN12895913out because they are going to start proceedings against me.
Once Acromas reviewed the CCTV footage  it became  immediately obvious  that Mr G was
responsible for the accident and it said it settled the third partys claim the same day.
Our investigator explained that we cannot  safely conclude that Acromas  handling  of the
claim directly led to Mr G suffering a stroke.  But she thought  it had contributed to it.
I think Acromas  failed  to properly investigate the third party claim despite the TPI reiterating
on many  occasions that it had provided evidence. And when it provided a copy of the
evidence, Acromas still took two months  to review it  and only when prompted by Mr Gs
call on 21 March 2019. If it had reviewed the footage promptly,  it would have settled the third
party claim in August 2018 as it did at the end of March 2019.
The delay of seven  months was entirely  avoidable  and led to a threatening letter from the
TPI to Mr G which was equally avoidable.  I think the threat of legal proceedings caused Mr G
a great  deal of distress  as is evident  from the response he wrote but was unable  to post
through his stroke. I have  to bear in mind that Mr G was unaware of the incident and
Acromas had followed his advice about the third partys claim.
I cant safely conclude that Aromas failure to settle  the claim sooner was the only and direct
cause of the deterioration in Mr Gs health. And so while I can understand the upset and
distress Mr G and his family have experienced, I think a fair outcome is for Acromas to
increase the compensation it pays to £1,000.  This is in line with similar awards  which we
give and examples can be found on our website.
Mr Gs daughter is unhappy that her fathers car hasnt been repaired and that Acromas
hasnt provided  a refund of the balance of the yearly premium he paid for his policy.
When a claim  is made, the full years insurance premium  is due as the contract  with the
insurer is yearly  and its met its obligations  under  the contract.  And Acromas has confirmed
that it will deal with incident related repairs to Mr Gs car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Acromas Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay Mr G £800 compensation in addition  to the £200  its already paid for the 
distress and inconvenience its caused.
Acromas must pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr Gs
representative accepts  my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must also pay interest  on
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate
of 8% a year.
If Acromas  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax
from that interest, it should  tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax
deduction certificate if his representative asks for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN12895914Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Gs 
representative on behalf of Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1289591