K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say The Chorley and District Building  Society (C&D)  mis-sold them a
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage in 1999.
background
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint on the basis that Mrs C was working two different jobs 
at the time the PPI was sold to her. And as she wouldve had to have lost both jobs in order 
to make an unemployment claim, the adjudicator thought that she wouldnt have taken out 
the PPI had this information been drawn  to her attention. So even though the unemployment 
cover was mandatory with the type of mortgage  Mr and Mrs C wanted, the adjudicator  
thought that Mr and Mrs C lost out as a result  of C&D not making this information about  the 
policy clear to them. 
I completed my provisional  decision in February  2019 setting out why I didnt think this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ive attached  a copy of my provisional  decision below and this 
forms part of this final decision. 
Essentially, even though I thought that C&D didnt draw Mr and Mrs Cs attention  to the fact 
that Mrs C wouldve needed to lose both jobs to make a successful  unemployment claim, I 
didnt think this information wouldve made  a difference to their decision and I didnt think 
they lost out as a result.  I said this because the inclusion of the unemployment cover meant 
they got a more attractive interest  rate on their borrowing. And even though  its unlikely they 
wouldve taken out cover for Mrs C if they had known all the information about  the policy,  I 
thought it was likely they still wouldve taken the same package but in Mr Cs name only - 
providing him with 100%  of the cover for the same price they paid for the joint cover. And as 
I hadnt seen any evidence they made a claim on the policy, I didnt  think  theyd lost out 
financially as a result.    
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still dont think the 
policy was mis-sold.
I set out my reasons in my provisional  decision attached below and have summarised  those 
same reasons above.
None of the parties responded  with any comments for me to consider. So based  on my 
previous findings,  and in the absence of any new information, I see no reason  to change my 
mind about  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold  so The Chorley and District Building Society does not have to pay 
back the premiums paid. And, as I stated in my provisional decision, I also dont  think  The 
Chorley and District Building  Society  need  to pay Mr and Mrs C back  any of the commission  
they paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN14868842Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs C say The Chorley and District Building Society  (C&D) mis-sold them a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14868843Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
At this point, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
The mortgage  product  which Mrs and Mr C chose to take out included compulsory unemployment 
cover. It also required them to take two of the following three insurances from the society   buildings, 
contents, or accident  and sickness. This doesnt  mean  the policy  was mis-sold. C&D is allowed to set 
conditions on the lending it provides, but it must make these clear  to those looking to borrow the 
money. C&D also says it provided  mortgages without compulsory products attached, but these didnt 
offer the same discounts. Mrs and Mr C decided  to take out this particular mortgage product and also 
chose to take out all three of the other insurances  available, in addition to the compulsory 
unemployment cover.
Ive seen a copy of the documents from the time of sale and I think  these make it clear that
Mr and Mrs C had to take out unemployment cover as a requirement of this mortgage. I say this 
having seen Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application which  states unemployment cover was required 
for all qualifying applicants. The mortgage offer also sets out that Unemployment insurance, 
together with a further two insurances of either buildings insurance,  contents insurance or accident & 
sickness cover  must  be arranged by the Society and remain in force  for minimum of 3 years.
Ive also seen  a copy of a separate application form which Mr and Mrs C signed  to confirm they 
wanted to take out accident and sickness cover. The form is headed Optional Accident  and Sickness  
Mortgage Payment Cover.  They  had the option to either take out joint cover, or single  cover  and 
they chose to take out joint cover. So I think C&D  did enough to make it clear that unemployment 
cover was compulsory but that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out accident and sickness cover  and 
they chose to take it out.
C&D recommended  the accident and sickness cover to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check  that it was 
right for them   and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And even though 
Mrs C says she was entitled  to sick pay from one of her employers at the time, if she was too sick to 
work, its unlikely she wouldve been able to go to her other  job either. Mr and Mrs C also say they 
couldve relied on family  to support them,  but help from others  cant  always be relied on as their 
circumstances can also change. Upon  a successful  claim  the PPI wouldve  covered both Mr and Mrs 
C if there were too unwell to work and wouldve  paid out on top of the sick pay Mrs C was entitled to 
and for longer than she would have received full pay. So I think  they had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information C&D gave Mr and Mrs C about the accident and sickness cover wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems  like it would have been useful for them  if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the accident and sickness cover would have put 
them off taking out the cover.
In relation to the unemployment cover  this was something Mr and Mrs C had to take with this type of 
mortgage. But C&D  still had to make  sure that they were given clear enough  information, and enough  
of it, to make a well informed  decision when agreeing  take the unemployment cover, and by 
extension, the mortgage. So thats  what Ive looked at.
Mrs C says she was working two jobs at the time cover  was taken out, and the mortgage application 
supports what  shes said. Looking at the nearest available policy  document  it looks like she wouldve 
had to lose both her jobs before she was able to make  an unemployment claim.  I dont think  its likely  
this was made clear to Mr and Mrs C at the time.
But I also dont think this wouldve made a difference to their decision to take out this mortgage and 
unemployment package.
Ref: DRN14868844I say this because taking  the unemployment  cover meant they got a more attractive  interest rate on 
their borrowing.. And the unemployment cover couldve  been taken out in Mr Cs name  only - 
providing him with 100%  of the cover  for the same  price they paid for the joint cover. So I think if the 
terms relating to applicants with two jobs were made clear at the time,  Mr and Mrs C wouldve chosen 
to take out cover in Mr Cs name only. As this would have cost the same as the joint cover they had, 
they havent lost out financially because of this.
Its also possible that some  of the other information C&D  gave Mr and Mrs C about the unemployment 
cover wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been   but they chose  to take out a mortgage  where 
unemployment cover  was compulsory. And from the evidence Ive seen it looks like Mr C wouldve  
been able to benefit from the cover  the policy  provided. So, although I think they wouldve arranged 
the benefit  to cover Mr C only,  I dont think better information about  the unemployment cover wouldve  
made Mr and Mr C chose a different mortgage package without compulsory unemployment  cover.
Ive also thought  about  the commission Mr and Mrs C paid on their PPI  and whether C&D treated 
them unfairly.
C&D has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Cs PPI was less than half of what they paid for 
each premium. Weve  looked  at how C&D  has been working this out and based on what weve seen it 
looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Cs commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the 
case, I dont think it needed to tell them about  the commission  so I dont think C&D  treated them 
unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs C back any of the commission they paid for 
the PPI.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  outlined above, I dont intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 28 March  2019
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1486884