K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the sale of a private  medical insurance  policy  by Saga 
Services Limited.
background
In October  2018, Saga  sold Mr and Mrs W a private  medical insurance  policy.  A few months  
later, Mr W contacted the insurer  about making  a claim, but this was turned down. Unhappy 
about this, Mr and Mrs W cancelled  their policy in February 2019.
After theyd cancelled  their policy, Saga advised Mr and Mrs W they owed £419.88 in 
outstanding premiums. That was because the policy had included the first two months free, 
however this was only on the condition that the policy was held for at least 12 months. 
Mr and Mrs W brought a complaint to this service.  They were  unhappy  that the insurer had 
turned down the claim because it was linked to a pre-existing condition,  and also that theyd 
been asked to repay their free cover. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought  Saga had made Mr 
and Mrs W aware  at the time of sale how the policy worked,  and that theyd need to repay  
the two months  free cover  if they cancelled within 12 months. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  with our investigators  findings, so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As our investigator has explained, we cant consider any concerns Mr and Mrs W may have  
about the insurer as part of this complaint.  This decision  therefore  only focuses on the sale 
of the policy  by Saga.
The moratorium
The policy was sold by Saga on a non-advised basis. That means it didnt give Mr and 
Mrs W any advice  as to the suitability of their policy, however, it was still obliged to give them 
sufficient information  about how the policy worked, so they could decide whether or not to 
take it out. 
The policy was taken  out on a moratorium basis. That meant  Mr and Mrs W didnt have 
cover for pre-existing conditions in the past three years, until theyd  been  members for two 
years and had experienced a two-year trouble-free period (other than for certain conditions, 
which wouldnt be covered after two years). 
Ive therefore  listened  to the sales call that took place between Mr W and Saga. 
The Saga adviser  explained to Mr W that if theyd had advice, medication or treatment  for a 
condition in the last three  years then this wouldnt be covered under the policy  as it would  be 
considered a pre-existing condition. However, if Mr and Mrs W went  two years without any 
Ref: DRN12594302advice, medication  or treatment, then it would be classed as a new condition. Mr W 
confirmed he understood.
Mr and Mrs W were also sent some  information from Saga which included The Insurance 
Product Information  Document  (IPID). This explained that Mr and Mrs W wouldnt  be 
covered for treatment  of any pre-existing conditions they had in the previous three years. 
The paperwork also included the quote  schedule which  said the following under 
Declaration:
You have read the information about  pre-existing conditions and underwriting terms in the 
Underwriting methods  and Chronic Conditions  Leaflet, which explains how the Moratorium  
works
Ive read the above leaflet, and I see it set out clearly how the moratorium  worked.
Consequently, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs W were  given  sufficient  information  about the 
moratorium and how it would work when they took out the policy.
The two months free cover
During the sales call, Mr W and the Saga  adviser discussed the cost of paying annually 
versus monthly. The adviser  explained that by paying monthly, Mr and Mrs W would be 
entitled to have two months  free cover. Mr W then asked the adviser about cancelling  the 
cover. She explained that he would  pay month  by month,  but if he did cancel, then he would 
have to pay back the two free months.  
The quote  schedule  sent to Mr and Mrs W by Saga said:
Your quotes  include  our current offer of the first two months free. This offer is dependent  on 
you paying your price by monthly Direct Debit and holding  your policy  for a minimum of 12 
months. Please  note,  if you cancel your policy at any point in the first 12 months, other  than 
in the initial  14-day cooling-off period, you will be required to pay the full price for any free 
period of cover you have  received, even  if you have not made a claim.
Once the policy was taken out, Mr and Mrs W were provided with a policy schedule. This 
included very similar  wording to the above  (though it referred to the policy  rather  than the 
quote).  
Im therefore  satisfied that Saga  made Mr and Mrs W aware that the two months  free cover 
was only on the condition that they held their policy  for a minimum of 12 months. As they 
didnt do so, I dont  find that Saga did anything wrong by charging Mr and Mrs W for that 
two-month period.  
I therefore dont  uphold this complaint against  Saga.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN12594303Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 October  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1259430