K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained  that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has unfairly 
handled his claim  made  on his caravan  insurance.
background
Although Mr Ks policy is underwritten by AIG, Mr K has dealt mainly with company A who 
act as the administrator and are the brand  of the policy provided. However, for ease  of 
reference and because AIG is responsible  for the claim as the underwriter, I refer to the 
actions of AIG and company A collectively as AIG in my decision.
In July 2018 Mr Ks caravan was broken into when parked up abroad. The windows of the 
caravan were damaged and the contents of the caravan stolen. Once  the damage and 
theft had been reported  to the police, Mr K raised a complaint with his insurer.  Further 
damage was caused to the caravan windows in October 2018.
Mr K needed to travel abroad  and to assess  the damage on the caravan  and confirm  
what was missing from the contents inside. Following this, in December 2018 Mr K 
emailed AIG to explain he was waiting on further quotes for the repairs to the windows 
and would be in touch when he had these.  AIG acknowledged this and said it would await  
this information.
On 4 January 2019 AIG emailed to see if there  was any update on the costs and Mr K 
replied on 5 January.  He provided a list of the contents items taken and their approximate  
value. He also explained he was waiting on confirmation of the window costs with damage 
to the additional  window in October  but had included  an estimate for these costs  on his 
listing and said additional supporting information  was being sent in the post.
On 14 January 2019 AIG said it hadnt received anything  through  the post and responded to 
an email chain it had been forwarded. This was a conversation between Mr K and a window 
replacement company hed been  talking with about prices  for the replacement  windows. It 
said, With  regards to the quote which is below in the thread of emails, I note that whilst  the 
repairer has advised that he does need further  information on the design of the window,  we 
would require the quote on company headed letter paper with their VAT number.
Mr K responded to say hed resend the documents in the post and requested  a full 
quote from the window supplier. On 23 January 2019 AIG confirmed it had received the 
postal documents  sent by Mr K and set out what it needed to consider his claim:
Proof of ownership for the stolen items  (This can be in the form of a receipt, bank 
statement, manuals  or packaging)
A letter from a repairer,  on their company  headed paper, to confirm how the 
damage to your caravan was caused,  along  with the necessary costs for repair.
A quote  for a like for like replacement  for your stolen items
Photographs  of the damage  to your caravan
Mr K explained he would send the quote  for the repair work on the windows as soon as 
possible but that he was unsure whether he or his wife would be able demonstrate what  was 
lost with receipts for the stolen contents  items.  Some of the items came with the caravan and 
it was unlikely they had much  else by way of proof  of ownership. Mr K questioned where in 
the policy it said hed be required to provide proof of ownership and AIG forward  a copy of 
the policy wording  directing  Mr K to sections two and five on page 15.
Ref: DRN18665732Mr K responded to say hed read this and some receipts could  be provided for some of the 
items but not all. And he was concerned this requirement of proof of ownership wasnt 
made clear when the policy  was taken out.
On 30 January 2019 Mr K supplied AIG with the quote for the cost of the replacement  
windows totalling  £926.00. AIG agreed  to authorise this cost and asked  questions  about how 
the windows were going to be fitted. Mr K sent an amended quote  on 6 February  to include 
the additional expense of the windows being shipped  directly to where the caravan was 
stored. No clarification was given  on how the windows were being fitted.
On 6 February 2019 Mr K made a formal complaint about how his claim had been handled 
and the requirements  being placed  on him to provide proof  of ownership for the contents 
items. On 8 February AIG confirmed  it would pay the quote for the windows once it received 
a proof  of invoice and would reimburse Mr K directly for this cost. Mr K responded to this and 
said he would order the windows.
On 27 February AIG wrote to Mr K and asked if the window  repair  work had been  completed 
and for a copy of the final invoice together with his bank  details  to allow  to make the 
payment to reimburse  him for this. He responded  on the same  day with the details of his 
account but provided no invoice to show the windows had been purchased or that the work 
had been completed.
AIG responded to Mr Ks complaint on 2 April 2019 and reiterated that it felt it needed to see 
evidence of the items claimed for before it could agree to make these payments. It felt it had 
acted fairly  in asking  for this and said without it, the claim for the contents items would not 
be paid. No reference was made to the window costs as it had agreed this claim and was 
waiting on the invoice as agreed. Unhappy with the response Mr K brought  his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ks complaint  and said she didnt think AIG had done  anything 
wrong. She explained  that it is common practice for insurers  to expect proof  of ownership 
when items  are claimed for and this wasnt unfair. She considered  whether other evidence 
could be provided  to support these items being evidenced but Mr K was unable  to provide 
bank statements so she didnt think AIG had been unreasonable  in not paying the claim. She 
also highlighted that the policy limit for contents  items was £500.00 so even if agreed,  Mr K 
would only be able to claim this amount in total.
Mr K has also questioned when he will be paid for the windows a number of times,  AIG has 
said it was still waiting  for confirmation these had been paid for with the invoice needing to 
be provided before it will pay this or for an amended quote.
Mr K has also since explained that he would like to be reimbursed for costs  hes said he 
incurred since his caravan was damaged. As a result of the damage he said he has been 
unable to use it and has needed  to use hire facilities when abroad at considerable cost to 
himself. He has provided a list of these costs  and invoices to support this. He feels AIG 
failed to pay for the repairs to the windows when it should have and now due to his health 
deteriorating, he is no longer in a position to source and repair  the windows on the caravan. 
He has asked that AIG collect  and repair the caravan and then return it to its site and if this 
cannot be done, hed like the replacement  value of the caravan to be offered.
Ref: DRN18665733AIG has said it will not cover any of the hire costs Mr K has said he has incurred when the 
caravan has been  damaged. It doesnt believe the policy  provides cover  for this and has 
said that it has been under the belief since February  2019 that the windows had been 
purchased by Mr K following  his statement to this effect. It had been waiting for him to 
provide the evidence of this with the invoice to allow it to make the payment, and it had 
detailed at the time this was needed, but this hadnt  been provided.
Because Mr K didnt  agree  with our investigator the complaint was passed  to me for a 
decision. I issued  a provisional decision on this case in May 2020. I reviewed the complaint 
in three  parts,  looking  at the contents items in the caravan,  the repair costs of the windows 
and whether AIG should pay for the accommodation  costs Mr K incurred when visiting where 
his caravan was kept. 
I said I was planning  on upholding the complaint with the following direction to AIG on how it 
should put things right.
Pay Mr Ks contents claim in line with the policy limit of £500.00 as now offered.
Work  with Mr K to organise an agreed  settlement for the windows and consider  any 
reasonable additional costs on top of the previous  agreed replacement cost, allowing 
for fitting costs. 
Consider Mr Ks alternative accommodation  costs for the month of October 2018 
when he needed  travel to the caravan and assess the damage in line with the policy  
terms.
Make  a payment  of £200 for the distress  and inconvenience caused by failing to 
handle the contents  claim promptly  and reasonably.
A copy summary of my provision findings is included below: 
The contents claim 
In general it isnt unusual to expect proof  of ownership to be provided for items claimed for 
and AIG, like most insurers requested this and set out the expectation  in its policy  wording. 
But I didnt think it was fair for AIG to expect Mr K to provide evidence  of the contents items 
he claimed for in the caravan. Based on the majority being of low value, it didnt seem 
reasonable to expect  receipts to have  been  kept for these items. All were items that you 
would reasonably expect to find in a caravan and with their individual values ranging in the 
most part, from £5-£20, it didnt feel fair to decline this claim  when receipts for the items 
hadnt been provided. 
The window and damage repair
I dont think AIG caused a delay or acted unfairly  with how it has handled  this element
of Mr Ks claim.
AIG has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly  and once  agreed,  it should 
make sure these are paid quickly.  It should  also make sure that during  the course of the 
claim, appropriate information  should  be provided to help the policyholder  make  the claim so 
that it isnt unreasonably  rejected.
Mr K notified AIG of the claim soon after he was made aware  that his caravan had been 
damaged and he let them  know he needed  to travel  abroad to assess this damage  and 
the contents.
Ref: DRN18665734In October 2018 further damage was made to the caravan and in December 2018  Mr K let
AIG know about this and that he was waiting on quotes for the repair  costs.  AIG contacted 
Mr K in early  January 2019  to confirm if these  had been received and it detailed what  it 
needed the quote to include for it to be able to accept this.
On 8 February AIG confirmed the following with Mr K in relation to the claim for the window 
costs:
We are happy to accept the revised quote at £1018.00  for your window damages.  
Please proceed  with the works. Once  the final invoice  has been received we can 
then look to reimburse you for the costs. Your settlement is calculated at £1018.00  
less your policy excess of £100.00  leaving a total of £918.00 payable to you. We 
will require the final invoice and your banking information (account number, sort 
code and name on account)
Mr K responded to this and said Thank you for your prompt  reply.  I will order the windows 
today.
When AIG later asked for confirmation on whether the windows had been  received and paid
for Mr K only provided his bank details for reimbursement but didnt provided proof  that 
hed paid for these.
I cant see that AIG has been  unfair with how it has handled this element of Mr Ks claim. 
It was unable to progress  the claim until he assessed the damage to the caravan and he 
let them  know in December he was waiting on the quotes for the replacement  windows.  
AIG explained what it needed  and this was seemingly accepted  by Mr K when it provided 
the quotes as asked.
AIG explained it would reimburse Mr K once he paid for the new windows and Mr K said on
8 February 2019  he would order them that day. From this point onwards AIG believed he 
had ordered them and was waiting for the invoice to make the payment it had agreed with 
him. This wasnt received and when chased, Mr K only provided his bank details for 
payment which  wasnt  what had been agreed in February 2019.
In August 2019 AIG said via this service, that it could pay the supplier directly  if Mr K 
provided a quote  again  for the cost of the replacement  windows  now.  Mr K responded to 
say he was talking  to the supplier but because it only kept quotes  for two months hed need 
to resend it details  of the window sizes before these could be ordered and quoted.  He did 
point out that he believed AIG had previously agreed  to pay the quote and hed sent his 
bank details for this. No new quote  was received to forward  on to AIG and this wasnt paid.
  
I dont think it was unreasonable  to expect  a new quote from this point. The price quoted in 
February 2019 may well have changed and without knowledge of what was being claimed, I 
dont think AIG could have made the payment.
Mr K has said he believes AIG should now recover and repair  his caravan as the 
replacement windows havent been ordered and he is no longer able to do this. He feels the 
policy provides cover  for this and that if this cant happen, AIG should  offer to replace the 
caravan. The policy  sets out what AIG will do in the event of a claim and says that it will 
either pay for the repair, to replace the damage or to provide a new caravan to the limit of 
the policy  in Mr Ks case this is a £2500.00 limit. It also explains that it will decide which of 
these options  to apply  and use to settle  the claim.
Ref: DRN18665735AIG chose to pay for the repair and replacement costs with Mr K and this was accepted  by 
him in February  2019. As the invoice wasnt provided to show the replacement windows 
had been purchased it wasnt  able to make  the payment  and I dont think  it needed to 
without this proof. Unlike the contents  items this was something  which  could be 
demonstrated and it had been confirmed  that reimbursement would be provided  on proof of 
payment (the invoice being supplied). And Mr K had agreed he would be doing this when 
he said he was ordering the windows.
The policy also gives  more information about when AIG would be able to offer to 
collect, repair and return a caravan:
Recovery and Re-delivery
If the Caravan is disabled  because  of damage  insured by the policy, We will pay the 
reasonable cost of protection and removal of the Caravan to the nearest suitable repairer, 
returning it after repair to Your address in United Kingdom, Northern Ireland or Isle of 
Man.
If the Caravan is disabled  because  of damage  insured by the policy, We will pay the 
reasonable cost of protection and removal of the Caravan to the nearest suitable repairer, 
returning it after repair to Your address in United Kingdom, Northern Ireland or Isle of Man.
AIG has said because  Mr Ks caravan is a towing caravan  it wouldnt consider  collecting, 
repairing and returning it to its place of storage because of broken windows. Having 
considered the policy  wording I dont think this is unreasonable.  This states  if a caravan is 
disabled because of damage insured by the policy, this option  could be used but this isnt 
applicable with the nature of damage  to Mr Ks caravan.
AIG has said it can pay the original agreed  amount to Mr K for the damaged windows or 
because of his health now,  pay a repairer  directly  to make the repairs.  I think this offer is fair 
but based on the previous  quote  only being  for the supply of the windows and not to fit them  
too, the previous agreed price  may be different for the windows to be fitted together  with the 
replacement cost and Id expect AIG to meet any additional reasonable expenses  in settling 
this.
Although I dont  think  AIG has done anything wrong with how it handled this element of
Mr Ks claim, Id hope  it will now work with in a positive way to avoid any further distress on 
him while he is currently unwell.
Accommodation and other costs incurred
Mr K has provided invoices for the times hes visited where his caravan is. Hes said he 
needed to stay in the hire facilities as the caravan wasnt  repaired and so wasnt habitable. 
And hes provided a copy of an invoice for a translation service needed when he contacted 
the police  about the damage.
There is a provision within Mr Ks policy for some costs of alternative accommodation to be 
covered if the caravan is rendered unusable following a claim  for damage insured under the 
policy. But this doesnt cover  all costs  and relates  only to holidays booked prior to the 
accident or expenses  reasonably incurred for the hire of another caravan  or alternative 
accommodation up to 3% of the sum insured for each complete week  of lost use.
Ref: DRN18665736I think its fair to say that Mr K needed to travel abroad to assess  the damage to his caravan 
and he needed  somewhere to stay as a result of this, and this is an expenses  reasonably  
incurred. So I think its fair that AIG consider the costs of his accommodation in October  2018 
in line with the policy terms. And this service can forward on the invoice from this point on to 
AIG for its consideration.
Any costs  incurred after this point  cannot  be said to be reasonably incurred expenses in 
relation to the claim and any trips booked after the 8 February 2019 were  made after 
AIG had confirmed the replacement window costs would be covered in full  less the 
excess.
Mr K had said he in February 2019  that he was going to buy the replacement windows after 
being told this cost would be reimbursed to him. So I dont think its fair that AIG consider 
any accommodation costs  after this point.
The translation costs  arent something which is covered under the policy and I wont  be 
asking AIG pay this.
Overall I think AIG has done something wrong  when it unreasonably rejected Mr Ks contents 
claim when  his claim was first raised.  And this has caused additional  distress  and 
inconvenience to the claims process  above  what Id expect is reasonable. To recognise 
this, Ill be asking AIG to make an additional payment of £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience to Mr K.
Im very much aware that Mr K is extremely unwell at the moment  and he feels there is a 
great deal of inconvenience that he will now face in having to try and source the repairs  to 
his widows. But I do think AIG acted  fairly  with this element of the claim and Mr K had the 
option to purchase  this in February 2019  in the knowledge that he would be fully reimbursed 
for the cost and he agreed  to this.
AIG is now aware these havent been  purchased and it has agreed  to pay the previous 
agreed amount  for the windows or consider other  options which  reduce the distress 
and inconvenience  that Mr K may need to go through  to source this repair   and can 
pay a repairer directly if this is agreed  and I think this fair.
AIG responded to say it agreed with my provisional  decision and recommendations to put 
things right. It had no further comments to add and accepted the decision.
Mr K responded to say he didnt agree with a number  of points.
 
He doesnt  think its fair to refer to AIG throughout as hes never had any dealing with 
AIG directly. 
He said his caravan  is not mobile as the road wheels  have  been  removed from it and 
this was done on the insistence of AIG when the insurance was taken out  the 
caravan has been used  a static caravan at their property for accommodation while 
the property is renovated and AIG is aware of this. 
He feels AIG has failed to meet its contractual obligations when it failed to return his 
caravan to its original  condition when it refused to meet his contents claim. 
AIG failed in its duty of care when it passed on the responsibility  of purchasing  the 
replacement windows  to Mr K  he doesnt  feel this would happen if it was his house 
that had been broken into.
Ref: DRN18665737AIG knew  the caravan was a place of residence  for when Mr K was working on his 
property and failure to reinstate it to a habitable  condition would result in costs   so 
all alternative accommodation costs incurred  up until it agree to pay the 
replacement window  costs directly should  be repaid. 
My recommendation of £200.00 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  when AIG 
failed to pay the contents claim  sooner  wasnt enough to recognise  the distress  
caused.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings  set out above.  I know this isnt the answer  Mr K is hoping  for but 
Ill explain  why.
Im sorry  that Mr K would rather I refer to Company A and not AIG when  setting out what  has 
happened in this complaint. But AIG is ultimately  responsible for this claim and the decision 
is against it. Any reference of AIG is to be read collectively as reference  to Company A or 
AIGs actions.
I dont think the removal  of the road wheels from the caravan while it is static means AIG 
need to recover  it to repair the damage now. The policy says it will do this if the caravan is 
disabled because of any insured damage.  There  is no indication  the caravan  is disabled 
because of the damage which has been caused  and I dont think  its fair to ask AIG to 
recover the caravan  now and repair  and return the caravan  to Mr K.
I agree  AIG should have paid Mr Ks contents  claim sooner  and this has been accepted by it. 
And Ive made a recommendation for what I feel is fair compensation to reflect  the delay in 
this being paid. I still believe this is fair amount to reflect AIGs failure to pay the contents 
claim sooner. I understand Mr K is unhappy  with this and doesnt feel it reflects what has 
happened, but I think its important to draw the distinction from what  happened with the claim 
overall. As our investigator said, expecting proof of ownership isnt uncommon or something  
which is generally unfair. But in this case,  with the nature and value  of the items claimed  for, 
I didnt think it was fair that AIG maintained this expectation. And the recommendation is for 
the inconvenience of this contents claim not being paid sooner.  
Mr Ks policy  sets out how claims will be handled and that AIG will decide how this will 
happen and this is common in most insurance  contracts  rarely  is the decision around  how 
a claim will be settled made by the insured. I think AIG acted fairly with how it handled the 
replacement window costs and how it offered to settle this part of Mr Ks claim.
I think AIG was fairly under the belief that Mr K had ordered the replacement  window for his 
caravan in February 2019 and that he was making  the repairs  himself. Had this happened 
the caravan would have been habitable  again. I dont think any expenses incurred in 
alterative accommodation after Mr K had been  informed he could purchase the replacement 
windows should  be paid. As I detailed previously,  the cost incurred when traveling to assess 
the damage and record  this is reasonable and these should  be paid in line with the policy 
terms. But all other bookings made by Mr K for alternative accommodation after having  
confirmation he could  have repaired his caravan are not. They arent  covered under  the 
policy and I dont think its fair to ask these are now paid.
Ref: DRN18665738As I said in my provisional decision,  Mr K is currently very unwell and I hope that AIG will 
take account of this and work  with him to help organise the repair  to the windows. And, 
recognising the repair  cost wasnt  previously  included in the invoice supplied, it should  
consider any other reasonable  expenses  in line with the policy  limit when doing this.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint  and direct American International Group UK Limited to do the 
following to put things  right:
If AIG hasnt already, to pay Mr Ks contents claim in line with the policy limit of 
£500.00 as now offered.
Work  with Mr K to organise an agreed  settlement for the windows and consider  any 
reasonable additional costs on top of the previous  agreed replacement cost, allowing 
for fitting costs. ( I note the previous invoice cost has been paid but I do expect AIG 
to help Mr K organise the fitting of the widows and cover this cost in line with the 
policy)
Consider Mr Ks alternative accommodation  costs for the month of October 2018 
when he needed  travel to the caravan and assess the damage in line with the policy  
terms.
Make  a payment  of £200 for the distress  and inconvenience caused by failing to 
handle the contents  claim promptly  and reasonably.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2020.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1866573