K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Instant Cash Loans Limited  (trading as Payday UK) gave her loans 
that she couldnt afford to repay.  
background
Mrs C took four loans  from Payday UK between December 2016  and March 2017. 
A summary  of her borrowing is shown below.
Loan 
numberBorrowing 
dateDate  repaid Loan amountRepayment  amount 
including interest
1 21/12/16 06/01/17 £100 £129.60
2 20/10/17 24/02/17 £400 £521.60
3 04/03/17 24/03/17 £200 £236.80
4 24/03/17 24/04/17 £200 £254.40
Mrs Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He concluded  that   
Payday UK had done enough checks on Loan  1. But he didnt think  Payday UK had carried 
out proportionate checks for loans 2-4. He went on to conclude that he thought Mrs C 
wouldve been able to afford  the loans anyway and so it would have granted the loans if it 
had carried out further checks..
Mrs Cs representative disagreed with that assessment and has asked  that the complaint be 
passed to an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Payday UK, at the time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate  checks  to 
satisfy itself that Mrs C would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mrs C would have been 
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mrs Cs indebtedness in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Payday UK act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
If I determine that Payday UK did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs C and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Ref: DRN13296462Payday UK was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make  checks  to see whether      
Mrs C could afford to pay back each loan before it lent to her. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mrs C was borrowing, and her lending  history,  
but there was no set list of checks Payday UK had to do.
Payday UK obtained information  about  Mrs Cs monthly income, her expenditure and it also 
carried out credit checks. It used  this information when it decided whether to agree to lend 
money to her on the four occasions that it did.
The repayment that Mrs C had to make on Loan  1 was relatively modest compared to the 
disposable income she declared  to Payday UK and this was the first time she had applied for 
a loan with it. So I think the checks that Payday UK did on loan 1 were  enough   I dont think 
Payday UK was wrong  to give this loan to Mrs C.
But then Mrs C continued to borrow from Payday  UK. And the amount she was asking to 
borrow increased. So I think from Mrs Cs application for loan 2, it should have become 
concerned about  the information that she was providing about her financial situation.  I think 
the lender should have begun to question  whether Mrs C was using short term lending to 
support her normal day to day living costs  and whether she could afford  to repay  the loan in 
a sustainable  way. So because of these  reasons,  I dont think the checks  Payday  UK did for 
loan 2 or loans  3 and 4 were enough.
And although Payday UK should have carried out further checks on Loans 2 to 4 to find out 
more about Mrs Cs other short term lending commitments,  if it had have done  this, I dont 
think it would  have  changed anything. This is because it would have shown Payday UK that 
Mrs C still had enough disposable income to afford  the three  loans. Mrs C took out several 
short term loans during the time these loans  were granted, but when I consider her self 
declared disposable income at the time she was granted loans 2 to 4, I can see that she 
would still have had enough income to afford the repayments. So I cant  say now that it was 
wrong for Payday UK to give these 4 loans  to Mrs C and cant  require  it to do anything  
further.
Mrs C says through her representatives, that Payday  UK should have carried out more 
detailed checks by verifying the information that Mrs C gave to them.  But as I have already 
concluded I dont  think that would have  been proportionate at this stage. Payday UK was 
entitled to rely on the information  Mrs C gave it about the level of her income and 
expenditure. And overall, Im not satisfied that there was anything which should have made  it 
think that she wouldnt be able to afford  to repay  the loans based on what  I have already 
concluded, or which ought to have prompted  it to carry  out more  detailed checks. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  uphold Mrs Cs complaint  as I cant safely  conclude that she 
couldnt afford to repay the loans  that Payday UK gave  her.
Ref: DRN13296463my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against Instant 
Cash Loans Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1329646