K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC failed to stop payments leaving his account  as 
requested. 
background
Mr O says he first contacted Barclays in late 2017  and told it to stop making payments from 
his account. Barclays  has no record of this request. 
On 15 August 2018 Mr O got back in touch with Barclays and complained that payments  had 
left his account despite his earlier requests. During this call Mr O says hed spoken  with 
Barclays about this issue around a week before but it had failed to stop the payments as 
hed asked. 
During the call the advisor said that to stop payments  leaving  his account Barclays could 
block his card but Mr O didnt want to do that. The advisor didnt give any more details about 
this point. 
Over the following months several  more payments were made and Mr O complained. 
Barclays responded on 14 November 2018  and said the payments in questions  were 
Continuous Authority  Transactions (CATs). Barclays said it had offered  to set up a CAT 
cancellation request when  it had spoken to him in August 2018 but hed declined. 
Mr O referred  his complaint to our service and an investigator looked  at what  had happened.  
The investigator didnt  find any evidence that Mr O had asked Barclays  to stop payments to 
the two businesses in question in 2017 and said the first time they could see this was raised 
was when he called on 15 August  2018. The investigator thought  that during the call 
Barclays shouldve done more to explain how to stop all payments leaving Mr Os account,  
including explaining how to stop a CAT. 
As a result, the investigator asked Barclays to refund five payments made from Mr Os 
account between  August  2018 and November 2018. Barclays didnt  agree  and asked for the 
case to be appealed to its been passed  to me to make a decision.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has supplied detailed contact notes showing when it spoke  with Mr O in 2017 and 
2018. I know Mr O says he called Barclays in 2017  and specifically asked for payments to 
these businesses to stop, but theres no record of that request. In addition,  the bank  
statements provided show the £5.99 card payment appears to have first been  taken in 
March 2018, so its unlikely Mr O talked to Barclays about that beforehand.  
The notes from Barclays show lots of contact with Mr O in the months before he complained 
but that was about different issues unrelated  to this complaint. The investigator asked Mr O 
to provide some evidence  of his earlier contact about the issues raised here but hes not 
Ref: DRN16894052been able to. So Ive looked  at the available  evidence  and, like the investigator, Im satisfied 
Mr O told Barclays  that he wanted to stop all payments  on 15 August  2018. 
Ive listened to Mr Os call with Barclays on 15 August 2018 and its clear he was upset 
about payments  leaving  his account. Mr O said he wanted to make  sure that no more  money  
was taken and I think he was quite clear about that. In its response to the investigator  
Barclays said Mr O wasnt specific about the types  of payments he wanted  to stop and he 
wasnt clear.  But I dont  think thats  fair. Mr O is a consumer  and is unlikely to be aware of 
the various payments options available.  Its for Barclays, as his bank, to ensure Mr Os 
options are clearly explained,  including checking  whether he wanted to do a CAT 
cancellation request when  he called.  
Had Barclays taken that step when Mr O called on 15 August 2018 I think its more likely 
than not that hed have  agreed to go ahead so future payments wouldnt have been made. 
I note that Barclays  response  to Mr Os complaint dated 14 November 2018 says the CAT 
cancellation process as offered to him and declined but thats  wrong. During the call the 
advisor said Barclays could block his card to stop future payments but this wasnt  explained 
in more detail  and the call ultimately ended while Mr O was on hold.  I thought the advisor 
shouldve given a clearer explanation of Mr Os options so he could  decide  what he wanted 
to do. 
The investigator asked  Barclays to refund five card payments  made between  
29 August 2018  and 5 November 2018  to two businesses but it didnt agree. However, I 
think those five payments  would most  likely not have  been made if Barclays  had explained 
how to stop CATs so I agree its fair that theyre  refunded to Mr O. 
Mr O recently  said the £5.99 payments have continued. But I can see Barclays' complaint 
response of 14 November 2018  told Mr O about  the CAT cancellation process and also 
asked him to contact  the merchant directly to stop the payments. Whilst I agree Barclays 
couldve provided clearer information in August 2018, Im satisfied  it gave Mr O the 
necessary information  he needed when it responded to his complaint. Id expect a consumer 
to follow  up on information given in response  to a complaint and I think Mr O couldve  
cancelled his payments with the merchants. So Im not telling Barclays  to refund any 
payments that mayve  been made after it sent Mr O its final response. 
Taking everything Ive seen together, Im satisfied Barclays shouldve given clearer  
information to Mr O when  he called on 15 August 2018. Had it done  so I think  its more likely 
than not that Mr O wouldve made a CAT cancellation request and future payments wouldnt 
have been made.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to refund the 
following payments:
-29 August 2018 £5.99
-11 September 2018 £50.00
-21 September 2018 £50.00
-5 October 2018 £5.99
Ref: DRN16894053-5 November 2018 £5.99
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1689405