K820x#14Complaint
Mrs J complains NewDay Ltd (trading  as Debenhams Gold Store Card) upgraded her store 
card to a credit  card which  had different terms and conditions, without her agreement.
Background
In March 2018, NewDay wrote to Mrs J asking  her if she wanted to upgrade her existing 
store card with them to a credit card instead.  In April 2018, NewDay said Mrs J requested  
the upgrade using their automated system  and in mid-May  a new card was issued to her. A 
couple of days  later, Mrs J used  the new card to make a purchase.  
In October  2018, Mrs J tried to use her original card to make a purchase, but the transaction 
was declined. So, she contacted NewDay to ask what was wrong.  NewDay said that Mrs J 
had chosen to upgrade to the credit card a couple  of months earlier, so her store  card would 
no longer work. Mrs J said she didnt remember upgrading her account, so she raised a 
complaint. 
NewDay didnt uphold  the complaint. They said theyd  sent a letter  to Mrs J to say she was 
eligible for an upgrade,  and to accept the upgrade  she wouldve needed to opt in for it by 
calling a dedicated telephone number. They also said that they wouldnt be able to return her 
account to a store card as they were phasing  them  out. And if Mrs J wanted  to close  her 
account, she would need to clear  off the outstanding  balance on her card in full. 
Mrs J didnt agree. She said shed  never  agreed  to the upgrade  and wanted her account to 
be returned to a store card. So, she asked this service to look in-to her complaint.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said hed seen evidence 
from NewDay of the upgrade letter  which had been  sent to Mrs J. And system records  
showing Mrs Js account was upgraded using  an automated telephone system  in April 2018. 
He also said hed seen  evidence of Mrs J statements from June 2018 onwards which  
showed her account  was now a credit card. So, he thought she ought reasonably to have 
been aware her account had been  upgraded. 
Mrs J didnt agree. She said that she wasnt aware  her account had been upgraded until 
shed tried to use her store card and it was declined  which caused her embarrassment.  
She also said she wouldnt  have  upgraded her account as she wouldnt want the option of 
using the card anywhere except the retailer, and this had put her under unnecessary  stress. 
So, she asked for an ombudsman to look in-to her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for broadly the same  reasons  as the investigator.  
Mrs J told us shes unhappy her store card was upgraded to a credit card without her 
agreement and that she had declined the upgrade numerous times  before. But Im not 
persuaded thats the case. Ive seen a copy of the upgrade letter NewDay which was sent to 
Mrs J. It explains  that to take advantage of the upgrade she needed to call a dedicated 
number before the end of April. Ive also seen that once the number had been  dialled, you 
then needed to enter the relevant account or card number, then enter the correct date of 
Ref: DRN18628942birth, and then finally either say or enter  the account or card number again. So, I think  its 
unlikely anyone else wouldve had access to Mrs Js details which needed  to be inputted as 
part of the upgrade request or upgraded the account  on her behalf   particularly before the 
deadline expired. And I also think its unlikely that the upgrade happened accidently given 
the number of steps required for the change to take place.   
I acknowledge Mrs J said she didnt know her account had been  upgraded until six months 
after it had taken place,  when her card was declined in-store  which caused her 
embarrassment. However, Ive seen  copies of Mrs Js statements, which notes under the 
account information How Interest is Calculated on your Mastercard  and For all enquiries 
relating to your Credit Card account  please call customer services. Ive also seen that her 
monthly statements  from this date clearly show the credit card logo at the top of each one, 
and this is also shown  on the ad-hoc promotions  Mrs J received. So, I dont agree that 
NewDay didnt make it clear Mrs Js account had been upgraded. 
However, I recognise Mrs J may not have identified her account had changed based on 
these changes alone, but Ive seen that she makes  her monthly payment by Direct Debit.  
The terms and conditions  of the upgrade say Mrs J would have received a Direct Debit 
cancellation letter for her existing  store card, and a separate Direct Debit  set-up letter for the 
new credit  card. I understand theres a discrepancy  with the date NewDay said Mrs J 
received her upgraded card, and I dont  agree  Mrs J received or used the new card in May 
2018. But I think regardless  of the date the upgrade took place, when Mrs J received these 
letters she ought to reasonably have been aware that something had changed on her 
account and she needed to contact  NewDay to see what it was. So, Im satisfied Mrs J 
received enough information from NewDay to make her aware  that her account  had been 
changed.  
Mrs J has told us that she doesnt  intend to make payments to her account. However, I need 
to make Mrs J aware that if she doesnt  make the required payments its likely to have an 
adverse effect  on her credit file. Mrs J has also said that this situation is causing her 
additional stress, if she has concerns about  her account, she can speak to NewDay who can 
provide her with further assistance.
I recognise this has been a frustrating time for Mrs J, and Id like to reassure her that Ive 
carefully read all the information shes provided.  I understand  why Mrs J feels  strongly  about  
what happened and I realise this wont be the outcome she was hoping for, but I dont think  
NewDay have treated her unfairly. So, I wont be asking them to do anything  more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1862894