K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains Amtrust  Europe Limited has unfairly declined a claim hes made on his 
gadget and personal possessions insurance  policy.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 23 June 2021, an extract of which is detailed 
below:
The background  to this complaint is well known  to the parties so Ill only provide a summary  
here.
Mr S has a gadget  and personal possessions insurance policy as a benefit  on a 
credit card
Its underwritten by Amtrust and as its ultimately responsible for this complaint, Ill 
refer to it throughout
In September  2016 he had a number  of items  stolen from a car, including a camera,  
an expensive pen, a phone and a leather hold-all
He reported  the claim  to Amtrust  and it asked  him to provide various pieces of 
information to substantiate the claim.  It reminded him in November 2016
Mr S then got back in contact some seven months later, in June 2017, and said he 
had already sent the information  but to the card issuer not Amtrust - and asked for 
more time to find the documents  to send again
In July 2017 he provided a photo  of some information about  the phone  but it was 
unclear. Amtrust asked for a clearer picture and queried some anomalies  on the 
receipt. It also asked for a letter from the person who gifted  him the other items as 
proof of ownership  and it reminded him of the other information he needed to 
supply
It says nothing was received  from Mr S and he didnt get back  in contact until July 
2018 by which time it says he was outside the six-month deadline to make  a claim
So Amtrust declined  the claim and Mr S complained but it maintained  its position
Our investigator considered the complaint  and, after some  back  and forth, decided 
Amtrust should pay the part of the claim related to the loss of the phone as Mr S 
had provided proof of purchase
But Amtrust said the proof of purchase  didnt show  Mr Ss address,  just the address 
of an internet caf so its requirements  hadnt  been met
In the absence of the parties  agreeing to the outcome, the complaint has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim, Mr Ms policy  requires  him to submit  the information  Amtrust requests 
within six months of the incident and to provide details of any other  insurance  policy  the 
items might be covered by.
I have thought about this while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN15018892The camera,  pen and leather hold-all
Our investigator didnt  say Amtrust  should pay this part of the claim as the requested  
documentation had been provided  too late
Mr S seems  to have accepted this and from what Ive seen theres nothing to show  
the documents were provided to Amtrust  within the six-month  deadline required by 
the policy
So, Im satisfied Amtrust doesnt  need to pay this part of the claim
The phone
Mr S did provide a photo of a receipt  for the phone within  Amtrusts 
extended deadline. But the photo wasnt clear so it asked for a clearer 
copy
There were  also a number of anomalies with the phone receipt   for example the 
model number of the phone wasnt consistent, and the address quoted  on the 
receipt was that of an internet caf
While  our investigator said this part of the claim should be paid, I disagree
One of the items Amtrust asked for was a copy of the insurance policy  covering 
the car from which the items  were  stolen
This requirement is detailed in the policy terms and is common  to many  insurance 
policies so a policyholder cant  benefit from making a claim for the same item on 
two different policies
Ive seen nothing  to show Mr S provided  a copy of this policy within  the six-
month time limit required
And for these reasons, Im satisfied Amtrust hasnt  acted  unfairly in declining 
the claim
Following this provisional decision, neither party provided any additional evidence or 
comments for me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any new evidence to consider, I remain  satisfied 
Amtrust has acted fairly in declining the claim for the reasons Ive explained  above.  I wont 
be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2021.
Paul Phillips
Ref: DRN15018893Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1501889