K820x#14Complaint
Mr T has complained about a life protection policy he was sold by a business which  is now 
the responsibility of Bank of Scotland plc. Mr T has said that whilst  he understood the policy  
was a condition  of the lending he had applied for at the time, he had sufficient cover  through 
his employer and so the policy wasnt necessary for him.
Background
Mr T took out a term assurance life protection policy in 1974 at the same time he was taking 
out a mortgage.  Information is limited given how long ago the policy  was sold but it looks  like 
the sum assured of the policy was £17,000. 
Mr T has said the policy was adjusted throughout its twenty-five year term to match  his 
mortgage debt in line with his further  borrowings.
Mr T has said the policy was mis-sold  because  even though  it was a condition of the lending  
he was applying for because of the level of death in service benefits he had through  his 
employer he didnt need the policy. So he feels he has been  over covered for all of this time.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it shouldnt  be upheld.  He 
was unable to confirm whether the policy was a condition of the lending  but, whether it was 
or not, he felt the policy would have been of use to him. He explained his employer benefits 
wouldnt have been viewed as sufficient to protect  the lending  if he passed away because 
employee benefits are not guaranteed as someone  could change  jobs.  Also the payment 
under the policy  could  be used to redeem the mortgage had Mr T passed away and anything 
that would  be paid through his employer could  be used by Mr Ts remaining family to use in 
place of his salary.
Mr T didnt  agree with the assessment. So as no agreement could be reached the complaint 
has been passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, I dont think the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Firstly its important to clarify this policy is not a payment protection  policy  (PPI) which Mr T 
feels it is.
A PPI policy  protects the regular repayments  of a loan or mortgage  for a period of time 
(usually six months) if the policy holder loses their job or become ill and cant work for a 
while. In contrast this life protection policy is designed to pay out one lump sum upon the 
death of the policy holder which can be used to redeem the lending  in full. If the policy is a 
condition of the lending required or assigned to the lending business then the lump sum 
payment must be used  to redeem the borrowing.
Mr T has said that the policy was a condition of the mortgage he was applying for. Yet he 
feels he shouldnt have  been told to take it because his employer benefits were sufficient to 
cover the borrowing had he passed away.
Ref: DRN19114842However, regardless of how much other cover Mr T may have  had in place if the policy was 
a condition of the lending  then he had no choice but to take the policy  if he wanted that 
mortgage.
I know Bank of Scotland wasnt able to confirm  whether the policy was a condition  of the 
lending but given when it was taken  out I think its very likely it was, and as already said Mr T 
says it was. So in this case, even  if Mr T didnt need the policy  he had to take it. And that is 
something this Service cant challenge  as that would have  been a commercial  decision that 
we cant interfere with. All this Service can do in this situation is to ensure the policy sold 
was the right type of policy to protect the type of borrowing he took out. But in this case  
because of the little information provided  by both parties I am unable to confirm  that.
Also the investigator  is correct when he said in his assessment  that any benefits a person 
has through their employer would not ever be considered sufficient to protect  any liability a 
person may have.  This is because the protection an employer provides firstly isnt 
guaranteed unless the person stays with the same employer for ever,  and that cant be said 
at any point of sale.  Also the payments  are designed to be used in place of the policyholders 
salary due to them  passing away. So it would always be prudent  for there to be an extra 
level of protection  specifically  for the liabilities. That way any payments under the protection  
the employer provided can be used by the remaining family rather  than being used up to 
redeem any debts.
Therefore while  I appreciate what Mr T has said and reasoning for it given the policy was 
very likely a condition  of the mortgage  he was taking at the same  time I cant say the policy  
was mis-sold regardless of whatever other cover Mr T had in place ay the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1911484