K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about problems he has experienced with a car supplied by Mi Vehicle 
Finance Limited  trading as Mann  Island Finance under a hire purchase agreement.
Mr C is being represented by both his mother and father in his complaint, but for ease Ill 
refer to all actions and comments as being those  of Mr C.
background 
Since getting the car in December 2016  Mr C has had several problems and would like to 
return the car.
Here is a summary of what has happened:
December 2016   mileage 8,942  Car was supplied with a cash  price of £65,000.  Mr C took 
out a hire purchase agreement with a credit  amount of £60,000  with monthly  repayments  of 
£989.39.
February 2017
Engine failed due to metal  particles  in the oil and was replaced. This took 18 days to repair 
and was carried out under warranty.
August 2017  mileage 21,110
The nearside turbo failed and was replaced. The repair took over two weeks and was also 
carried out under warranty.
September 2017  mileage 23,386
The other turbo failed  and was repaired.  Car was returned with the front bumper and grill 
missing. Mr C says there was a beeping  noise when the car was parked. The car was looked 
at again but no fault was found.
November 2017
The selling dealership spoke to Mann Island saying they were trying to source  a replacement 
car.
There was also an incident of fuel contamination which caused a loss of power and a 
performance message  to appear. Mr C initially  thought this might  have  been  caused by 
repairs to the cars, but later found out that it was probably due to fuel contamination at a 
service station.
The car was in storage for some time while  it was decided  who should be responsible  for the 
repairs  either Mann Island, the dealership or the warranty provider.
Mr C spoke to the manufacturer asking for the car to be replaced but was directed back  to 
the dealership  or to Mann  Island.
December 2017
Mann Island  instructed a technical  expert. His report concentrated  on the fuel contamination 
issue and the possibility of it being  linked to previous faults with the car.
February 2018
Ref: DRN16976272The report  concluded  the fuel contamination was not related to previous issues  with the car, 
nor with the engine  replacement.
March 2018  mileage 24,878
A second expert was instructed and he prepared a report which concluded the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality.  The engineer also said the suspension faults and beeping  would not 
have been present or developing at the time it was supplied. At this time the battery was 
replaced and front lower bumper trim was fitted.
A report on the car was carried out by third engineer. This said the beeping noise might  be 
related to the battery.
April 2018
Mr C notified Mann  Island he was pursuing  the service station directly about the fuel 
contamination issue.
May 2018  mileage 28,427
The car was investigated again in a garage for the beeping noise and given a service. It was 
found that suspension heights were uneven and a drain on the battery was investigated.
Since May 2018  Mr C says the hydraulics are not working and there is an oil leak but these 
problems have not yet been reported  to the dealership or Mann Island.
One of our investigators  looked into the problems Mr C was having with the car. Having 
considered all of the evidence  she didnt  think that Mann Island was responsible. Mr C 
remained unhappy with this so the complaint  came  to me for a decision.
After reviewing the complaint, I didnt agree with our investigator. So I issued a provisional 
decision on 9 November  2018. In this I said:
The finance  agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such, this 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. Mann Island is also the supplier of the 
goods under  this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint  about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  is of particular  relevance  to this complaint.  It says that 
under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that the quality of goods  is 
satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality  of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking  into account the description of the goods,  the price  
and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems fair that in a case  involving  a car, the 
relevant circumstances to take into account might  include things like the age and mileage at 
the time of sale and the vehicles history.
The CRA says the quality  of goods  include their general state and condition. Other things  
like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability can be aspects  of the quality of goods.
So when deciding what  is fair and reasonable in this case  I have thought  about whether  the 
quality of the car supplied by Mann Island was satisfactory.
Ref: DRN16976273Mr C was supplied with a car that was less than a year old, had a mileage of 8,942  for a 
purchase price of £65,000.  Considering  this I think its fair to say that a reasonable person 
would expect the level of quality to be higher  than a cheaper and more road worn vehicle. 
And that it could be used,  free of defects, for a reasonable time.
The engine failed  and was replaced  after three months. I am not persuaded on the balance  
of probabilities this was down to normally expected wear and tear or third party damage.
Considering the low mileage I think, on balance, there was an inherent fault with the engine 
or that the engine wasnt sufficiently durable.
After nine months one of the turbos blew, and a month later the other turbo blew. The 
mileage at this time was in the low 20,000 miles. I havent seen any evidence this was 
caused by mis-use from Mr C or some other external factor.  It seems  likely to me this was 
caused by an underlying  issue  or inherent  fault too  or that the car wasnt sufficiently 
durable.
Putting myself in the shoes  of a reasonable person, I wouldnt expect the level of problems  
which Mr C had with the car. It was supplied at a significant cost with low mileage and was 
not very old. Taking  into account the CRA,  and the requirement for the car to be durable, I 
am not persuaded it was.
And although the issues with the engine and the turbos were repaired, there have also been  
issues with an unidentified beeping  noise, the suspension, pipes coming  adrift and the 
battery discharging.  And there was also the issue with fuel contamination.
Three engineer  reports  have been prepared  looking  at these  later issues.
The first focused on the fuel contamination issue. It said the selling agent wouldnt be 
responsible for this. Ill come back to this issue  later on in my decision.
The second  report  in summary says, there is an issue with the suspension system, there 
was an audible beeping and the diesel sample  was not of satisfactory quality.  It said the 
vehicle is currently of unsatisfactory quality and would require further investigation.
The third report in summary says, the fuel contamination issue  had been rectified, the 
battery was discharged, an air pipe for the front suspension  was routed incorrectly and an 
annual service is due.
Ive weighed up the second  and third report carefully.
I think its clear  there were  still other issues and problems with this car  which are 
completely separate to the fuel contamination. The continuing problems with the suspension 
leads me to think there is some overriding issue rather than wear and tear being the cause 
of the problems. Adding to this an undiagnosed beeping noise has existed after the turbo  
repair.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments I am satisfied, it is more likely  than not 
that the car supplied by Mann Island was not of satisfactory quality. It is clear from the 
timeline that major  faults appeared  soon  after supply,  and continued  for over a year. Issues  
seem to be continually  occurring and overall I am not persuaded Mann Island supplied a car 
of sufficient quality.
Ref: DRN16976274There has been some debate  about  the cause of the fuel contamination and Mr C has 
decided to pursue  this separately with the service station. Initially Mr C thought the fuel 
contamination may have come from works done when replacing the engine. Looking  at the 
circumstances, and taking  into account  the results of the first report, I dont think this is likely 
the case. Im persuaded by the report which says the contamination  was not related to the 
previous issues or the engine replacement.
This being the case I have thought about  how to put things right. Mr C appears to have had 
some periods of reasonable use of the car, although  there were periods where the car was 
not driveable. So I am satisfied it is fair for Mann Island  to keep most of the monthly 
payments made by Mr C, but an allowance does need to be made for the times when Mr C 
could not drive the car. There were  times  when Mr C had a courtesy  car which  I have taken 
into consideration.
The current  positon  of the car is; the hydraulics  are not working, and there is an oil leak. This 
persuades me that even though repairs have been  done to the car there continues to be 
problems which mean the car is not of satisfactory quality.
Looking at the timeline Im satisfied that a refund of four months payment would be fair 
compensation for what has happened. With monthly  payments of £989.39 per month this is 
the equivalent of £3,957.56. This makes an allowance  for the time that Mr C did not have 
use of the car as well as an amount  for the inconvenience  caused.
I dont think Mann Island can fairly be held responsible for what happened  with the fuel 
contamination  so I dont think I can fairly  hold it liable  for any costs  Mr C incurred flowing 
from this.
Mr C has had other expenses such as extra insurance for hire car, engineer reports  and 
costs incurred when  adding a body wrap  as well as other accessories. Mann Island  should  
cover these costs so I invite Mr C to provide proof of these.
I intend to tell Mi Vehicle Finance Limited  trading  as Mann Island Finance to:
- collect  the car at no cost to Mr C
- cancel the finance agreement with nothing further  to pay
- refund the £5,000 deposit
- remove  the agreement from Mr Cs credit file
- refund Mr C £3,957.56  in compensation
- pay simple  interest  at 8% per year on any refunded  amounts
- refund extra costs  pending evidence from Mr C
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  submissions  they had before I issued my 
final decision. 
Mann Island  didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said as the faults had been  fixed  
there is no right under the CRA to reject  the car. 
Mr C responded and agreed  with my provisional decision providing evidence  of extra costs 
incurred with the car.
The complaint has now been passed back to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN16976275my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself coming to 
the same  conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
Our powers  to consider  complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets  Act 
2000 (FSMA) and in rules, known as the Dispute Resolution Rules  (DISP) written  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) in accordance with the powers  it derives from FSMA. 
These form part of the FCA Handbook.
Im required  by section 228 of FSMA to determine the matter by reference  to what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. And, in doing so, Im 
required by Dispute Resolution (DISP)  3.6.4  of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook 
to take into account:
(1)relevant:
(a)law and regulations;
(b)regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c)codes of practice; and
(2)(where appropriate)  what  he [the ombudsman] considers  to have been 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
In accordance with my obligations under FSMA and DISP, Ive taken all of the above into 
account when  coming  to an outcome  that Im satisfied is fair and reasonable. 
As I explained in my provisional decision The Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA) is of 
particular relevance  to this complaint. It says that under a contract to supply  goods,  there  is 
an implied term that the quality of goods are satisfactory. Amongst other aspects of what 
makes goods satisfactory is that it should  be durable.
Under the CRA if goods are not of satisfactory quality they do not conform  to the contract. 
Section 9 of the CRA says:
(1)Every contract to supply goods  is to be treated as including a term that the quality 
of the goods is satisfactory.
(2)The quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard  that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory, taking into account of -
(a) any description of the goods
(b) the price or other considerations (if relevant), and
(c) all the other relevant  circumstances
(3) The quality of the goods includes their state and condition; and the following 
aspects (among others) are in appropriate cases aspects of the quality of goods -
(a) fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually supplied;
(b) appearance  and finish;
(c) freedom from minor defects;
(d) safety;
(e) durability.  
Ref: DRN16976276Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain  remedies available to the consumer for goods that do 
not conform:
(3) If the goods do not conform  to the contract  because of a breach of any of the 
terms described in sections 9, 10, 11, 13 and 14, or if they do not conform  to the 
contract under section  16, the consumers rights (and the provisions about them  and 
when they are available) are
(a) the short-term right to reject (sections 20 and 22);
(b) the right to repair or replacement (section  23); and
(c) the right to a price  reduction or the final right to reject (sections 20 and 24).
When deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case  I have thought  about  whether or not 
the quality of the car supplied by Mann  Island was satisfactory.
Mann Island  supplied Mr C with a used car with a purchase price  of £65,000. Mr C paid a 
£5,000 deposit and Mann Island provided  a credit agreement for £60,000. The car was less 
than a year old and had a mileage of 8,942.  I think it is reasonable for that price, age and 
limited mileage, to expect  a high level of quality  and for the car to be sufficiently  durable.
Looking at the timeline of what happened  it appears  a lot of things went wrong with the car in 
a relatively short period  of time,  and with fairly low mileage. The things  that went wrong  were  
unexpected problems of a significant nature. The first of which  was the engine  failing and 
needing to be replaced. Engines do of course  break  down and fail. But in this case it 
happened three months after the car was supplied. Its reasonable to expect this wouldnt 
have happened  at this stage, especially considering the age and low mileage. 
There is a list of other things that went wrong with the car. Both of the turbos failed  within a 
year of the vehicle being supplied. There were issues  with the suspension and hydraulics as 
well as an unidentified  beeping noise. The car spent months  in storage while  there was a 
debate between the dealership and the warranty provider about  who should be responsible 
for the repairs. These combined show the degree of problems with the car. The dealership 
who supplied the car tried to source  a replacement again confirming the severity of the 
issues. All of this persuades me the car was not of satisfactory quality.
In response to my provisional decision Mann  Island  has, in summary, argued that because 
the faults have  been  remedied there  is no right to reject the car. It goes on to say the two 
independent experts say the faults were not present at the time of delivery, so any decision 
should only have  consideration  of any remaining un-remedied faults. It says there were 
serious problems, but believes  an award  for distress  and inconvenience would be more 
appropriate for what has happened.
I am not disagreeing that repairs were done to the car as the engine  and both of the turbos 
were repaired  to a reasonable standard. Two of the reports are silent  on the issue of whether 
or not the faults were  present at the point of supply. The ACE report, which  concentrated on 
the fuel contamination, says the car could not have been in this condition for a long period. 
This is in relation  to the fuel contamination,  rather than the other problems Mr C was having 
with the car. Upon  questioning the DEKRA engineer said,  in his opinion,  the suspension 
faults and audible beeping were  not present and developing at the time of supply, but this 
wasnt included in the original report.  But, importantly, the DEKRA report  says the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  and that further  investigation  is needed to rectify the issues.  Also, none 
of the three reports specifically address  the issue of durability. 
Ref: DRN16976277Overall, I am satisfied that because of the number and seriousness  of the faults  Mann Island 
supplied a car that was not of satisfactory quality. 
The over-riding issue is the durability of the car. There were  a lot of serious  problems that 
you would  not expect from a car of that age and value. There  were so many problems of 
such a serious nature  that I cant fairly say the car was durable and therefore of satisfactory 
quality.
Mann Island  goes on to say that under the CRA it has the option of repair,  which  it has done, 
so there  is no right of rejection. I have  considered  this carefully, and I have taken the CRA 
into account when  deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Mr C has been logging  complaints with the dealership, the warranty  provider, Mann  Island 
and the manufacturer since the problems  began.  He says the car was not fit for purpose 
from the beginning and not what he would  expect of a car costing £65,000. This has caused  
him to be disillusioned and disappointed. As far back  as October 2017 Mr C has been 
seeking to reject the car and considering legal action as he feels  the car is un-roadworthy. 
He is also upset about the time it took for the dealership, Mann Island, the warranty provider 
and the manufacturer to decide  who should  be responsible for what went  wrong. Looking at 
what happened I understand his frustrations.
 Mr C says there are still issues with the car. Mann Island says it is happy for an engineer  to 
inspect the vehicle to determine what the faults are. The evidence  from Mr C about  the 
problems with the car has been credible and consistent. Im satisfied that Mr C has been 
very reasonable in his actions including  maintaining  payments each month as well as taking 
the car back  to be repaired  on multiple  occasions. I think hes been very patient  in a situation  
that has often left him without use of the car. Hes been caused a great deal of 
inconvenience as well as having to arrange other  transport while  he didnt have use of the 
car. I dont think it fair that he should  be put to the trouble of another  inspection.  
On balance, given  the history  of numerous  and serious defects with the car, I think  it more 
likely than not that there are further  issues with the car as Mr C has described  and that 
these issues demonstrate that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. The issue 
with the hydraulics described by Mr C occurred at around 28,000  miles and I note the 
DEKRA report  from March 2018  refers to an issue with the suspension. I wouldnt expect a 
car of this cash price  to be experiencing problems of this nature at this age and mileage. 
In deciding what a fair remedy  here is, I have had regard to what the CRA  says about repair.  
I note that there have  been numerous  repairs and there is arguably a necessity for further 
repairs at this present  point. The CRA says that a consumer is able to reject goods that are 
not of satisfactory  quality  after one attempt at repair by the supplier. In this case, there  has 
clearly been more than one attempt  to bring  the goods to a satisfactory standard  and Mr C 
was clearly not happy about this and wanted  to reject the goods earlier.
Ive also had regard  to the fact that the CRA  indicates that repairs  should  not cause 
significant inconvenience to the consumer. And in this case, I think that Mr C has been put to 
significant inconvenience by the attempts to get the car up to the standard  that a reasonable 
person would expect.  
Ref: DRN16976278All things  considered, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say that the repairs that 
have taken place  are a suitable remedy for all that has happened here  even if it were 
argued that all faults have  been fixed,  and there  is nothing currently  not working with the car. 
Overall I think  its fair for Mr C to reject the car without going  to the trouble of having the car 
inspected again.  This will bring the matter to an end sooner rather  than later without Mr C 
being put to any more  trouble.
Looking at everything, and taking the CRA  into account, I am satisfied that rejecting  the car 
is a fair and reasonable remedy in this instance.
In my provisional decision I said that Mann  Island should cover any extra costs Mr C has 
incurred whilst he has had the car. Mr C has provided invoices and details for these extra 
costs being:
-£199 for a DEKRA  report  carried out in March  2018
-£4,300 for a side skirt kit and wrap  fitted  in June  2017
-£350 for a slim active sub fitted  in March  2017
Mr C instructed the DEKRA report as part of the ongoing investigations into what was wrong 
with the car. He was unsatisfied with the work  that had already been  done and with ongoing 
problems he was experiencing. The report said the car was of unsatisfactory quality and that 
further investigation would be needed.  Mann  Island should cover this cost as ultimately Im 
satisfied the car was not of satisfactorily quality and the need for the report  was caused by 
the car not conforming to the agreement.
Mr C chose to apply  a skirt kit to the car and have a wrap fitted.  He also has a slim active 
sub accessory fitted to the sound  system. I dont think its reasonable that Mann  Island cover 
these costs. The finance agreement says that Mr C should not make  any alterations to the 
car without  prior written consent. But he did. Also it seems reasonable to assume that Mann 
Island would have  made a deduction  for these accessories if the car was returned at the end 
of the agreement. Because of this Im satisfied that Mann Island does not have  to cover the 
cost of these accessories.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Mr C has had some use of the car so I think a 
refund of four months payments is fair compensation for what  happened.  Mann Island 
disagree with this level of compensation saying  that a full deduction for usage based  on 
mileage and diminution in the value of the vehicle due to mis-fuelling would be more  
appropriate. Mann Island has received around £20,000 worth of payments on the agreement 
over the last two years. Im satisfied that this amount sufficiently offsets any depreciation on 
the car and that a refund of four months  payments remains a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation. Had the car supplied by Mann  Island been of satisfactory quality, then the 
issue of depreciation  wouldnt have arisen.  Whats more, Mr C has been  put to significant 
inconvenience and I think the proposed compensation is reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and 
require Mi Vehicle  Finance Limited  to do the following:
- collect  the car at no cost to Mr C
Ref: DRN16976279- cancel the finance agreement with nothing further  to pay
- refund the £5,000 deposit
- remove  the agreement from Mr Cs credit file
- refund Mr C £3,957.56  in compensation 
- refund extra costs  of £199 for the DEKRA  report
- pay simple  interest  at 8% per year on any refunded  amounts from the date they were 
incurred until the date they are refunded
If Mann  Island considers  that it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest,  it 
must send  a tax deduction certificate  with the payment.  Mr C can then reclaim  this from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1697627