K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers  Motor Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr B under  a conditional  sale agreement with Close  Brothers in 
July 2018. The car was about seven years  old and had been driven  for about 58,000 miles. 
The car broke down  in November 2018 and Mr B complained to Close  Brothers about a loss 
of power, no compression  on the cylinders  and that the timing belt had snapped  and bent the 
valves. 
Close Brothers arranged  for the car to be inspected by an independent expert  in December 
2018 and then said that the faults wouldnt have  been present at inception  of the agreement. 
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that the faults 
with the car werent insignificant and it had required  a considerable amount of work at Mr Bs 
expense to get it back on the road - and she thought  that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale considering its age, price and mileage.  So she recommended that 
Close Brothers should refund the cost of repairs (if Mr B provided evidence  that hed paid for 
them - and not received a refund through other means such  as his warranty) and refund the 
monthly payments  or partial  payment  for the period  when  the car has been off the road (plus 
interest).
Close Brothers has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that: 
at the time of the timing  belt suddenly failing, Mr B had driven the car for over 3,000  
miles between July and November  2018  which it would consider to be substantial 
mileage;
if the defect was present at the point of sale Mr B wouldnt have been able to cover  
that mileage;
the car was seven  years old and had reached the point of its life cycle  when things 
could potentially go wrong - and several months  into the agreement things did wrong  
- but that doesnt deem that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale; 
the report identified  what the fault was and a qualified opinion was made  to show the 
probable cause;
it completed a reasonable investigation  and it would be unreasonable  to complete a 
full investigation  which would  require fully stripping the car down; and
the independent evidence substantiates  that the car was fit for purpose at the point of 
sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN10526712Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr B was about 
seven years old, had been driven  for about 58,000 miles and had a price of £5,347. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr B in late July 2018 and it broke down in early November 2018.  
Mr B complained to Close Brothers about  a loss of power, no compression on the cylinders 
and that the timing belt had snapped and bent the valves. It arranged for the car to be 
inspected by an independent expert in December 2018. The report confirmed those issues 
which it said were a:  result of excessive play in the timing chain ; and: to physically 
ascertain the cause  the engine will need to be dismantled fully.
It said that on the basis of the considerable time and mileage since  the car was supplied to 
Mr B: on the balance  or probability  the conditions would not have been  developing at that 
time and have been a more sudden occurrence  . But it also said that: Chain  deterioration 
is not uncommon on any engine fitted with a timing chain; and:  will develop  over a 
period of time.
Mr B has provided a copy of an invoice  for £999.02 for the repairs that were  required on the 
car. Mr B has a warranty  for the car and he says that the warranty  company is paying  
£700.80 towards the cost of the repairs  leaving £298.22 for Mr B to pay. And the invoice 
records the cars mileage  as being 61,092 miles.
Mr B was able to use the car to drive about 3,000 miles in less than three  and a half months 
before the car broke-down. I consider that it was reasonable for Mr B to expect that the car 
would last for longer than that before breaking  down and requiring such significant repairs. 
And I consider it to be more likely than not in these circumstances that the fault with the 
timing chain was present  or developing when  the car was supplied to Mr B. So I find that the 
car wasnt as durable as it would be reasonable for Mr B to expect it to be and, for that 
reason, it wasnt of satisfactory  quality at that time.
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to pay £298.22  to Mr B to 
reimburse him for the repair costs  that hes incurred and which  havent  been covered by the 
warranty. The car broke down in early November 2018 and wasnt repaired until late January 
2019  so Mr B wasnt able to use it during that period. And I find that it would also be fair 
and reasonable for Close Brothers  to refund to Mr B the three  monthly payments that he 
made under the agreement during that period  (with interest).
The car has been repaired so Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Close Brothers to allow Mr B to reject the car - or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. And I order  Close Brothers  
Limited, trading  as Close Brothers Motor Finance,  to:
1.Pay £298.22 to Mr B to reimburse  him for the repair costs  that hes incurred.
Ref: DRN105267132.Refund to Mr B the monthly payments that he made under the agreement for the 
three months from the beginning of November 2018 to the end of January 2019 when 
he wasnt able to use the car.
3.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 above  at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
of each payment  to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Close Brothers to deduct tax from the interest  payment 
referred to at 3 above. Close Brothers  must give Mr B a certificate showing how much  tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1052671