K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) sold by 
Santander UK Plc, trading  at the time as Alliance  & Leicester, in 2004.  The mortgage was a 
joint one issued in the names of Mr and Mrs P and the PPI covered them  both equally.  
For consistency, Ill refer mainly to Santander.
Background
One of our adjudicators said the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mr and Mrs P disagreed with 
this so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Im sure Mr and Mrs P now honestly and genuinely believe they were mis-sold the PPI, but 
Im afraid there is evidence available which seems to point quite strongly the other way.
I say this because  Mr and Mrs P are very clear that they never  agreed  to the PPI and didnt 
even know they had such a policy. However, these events were around 14 years ago and so 
I take into account that Mr and Mrs P just may not remember all the details of the sale.
Ive seen some documents, for example,  that were sent to them at the time including a letter, 
dated 7 June 2004, which was headed  Alliance & Leicester Mortgage PaymentCover. The 
letter confirmed in some  detail that both Mr and Mrs P had asked for a PPI policy  to be set 
up on their mortgage and it went on to explain who was covered and for how much. It 
explained the costs to be deducted monthly  from their bank  account  for the PPI. 
Santander says Mr and Mrs P already had a mortgage in place and had also borrowed some 
extra money by way of a further advance for home improvements.  But it says the PPI was 
sold independently of these events, in one of its branches.
Ive also seen the records kept by the third party  insurer which indicate Mrs P telephoned to 
confirm certain details before the policy finally went live. Theres also evidence of 
correspondence between  the parties to facilitate this.
So whilst I accept Mr and Mrs P dont remember all this now, I think  there is solid evidence 
that they probably asked for the policy and they would  have  certainly been able to see it was 
being set up for them. And I think they would  have had to specifically set up a direct debit to 
arrange for the monthly premiums  to be paid to the insurer.
On the basis of this, I think they consented  to the PPI.
Its not disputed  that the PPI was recommended as part of an advised sale.  This means 
Santander had a duty to ensure  the policy was suitable. I think it was.
Ref: DRN18285452I think this because Mr and Mrs P were eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the 
major exclusions  we tend to see in these types  of policy. They were employed and although 
I agree  they would have had some sickness protection in place with their jobs, this doesnt 
make the PPI of no use. Their mortgage  was secured against their home  and so the 
consequences of not being  able to make the repayments could have been serious. In the 
event of a successful claim, the PPI would  have helped pay the mortgage  for up to 
12 months. This would  have been  in addition  to the other means they had.
I therefore dont  think recommending  PPI was unreasonable.  It was suitable for them.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I obviously 
cant confirm what would  have been  said at the meeting(s) and its possible Santander could 
have done a better job in explaining things. But from what  Ive seen, I think  the cost was 
made clear  the letter said your first payment of £39.26 will be deducted  from your bank 
account by direct debit  on  The second and subsequent premium  payments of £19.63 
will be deducted on .. and monthly thereafter.
So overall, I think Mr and Mrs P probably  had enough information on which  to make an 
informed choice about what they wanted  to do and I think they engaged in this sale.
Im afraid I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I dont direct 
Santander UK Plc to do anything to put matters right.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1828545