K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited  misrepresented  the 
terms of a hire purchase agreement. She wants payments she made  on a previous 
agreement to be transferred to the new agreement or refunded.
background
Miss S tells us that in August 2018 she acquired a vehicle from a Mercedes  dealer  Ill refer to 
as B. She explains that having experienced a number of problems  with the vehicle  she 
agreed with B to accept a replacement vehicle.  Miss S says she was told the existing loan 
agreement would stay in place so that the payments shed already made would  remain  
credited. And she says she was also promised a refund  of one monthly  payment and other 
gestures of goodwill including a service  plan. Miss S says shes  now discovered that an 
entirely new hire purchase agreement  was started. And that the payments she made on the 
earlier agreement wont be refunded. She says the effect is shes  made  five monthly  
payments for a car she never used. She wants these payments to be refunded.
MBFS told us that due to faults with the first vehicle B had agreed  to take that vehicle  in part 
exchange and provide  Miss S with a substitute vehicle  at no cost to herself. It said B had 
settled the earlier agreement in January 2019.  It said the replacement vehicle was a newer  
model with fewer miles.  And it felt it had dealt with the matter fairly. But as an additional  
gesture of goodwill to Miss S it offered a further payment of £326.16, being one monthly rental.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 April 2020. I said I was minded to uphold  
the complaint.  And that I intended to order that Ms S should only have to make two payments 
towards the first agreement. And that she should receive £100 for distress  and inconvenience  
caused. Miss S acknowledged receipt  of my provisional view but hasnt  made any further  
comments. MBFS said it didnt agree with the additional award of £100 as it felt Miss S had 
already been compensated  by being provided with a newer vehicle with less mileage than the 
problem vehicle. Ive considered what MBFS has said but for reasons Ill explain in my final 
decision - set out below  - Im not minded  to change my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss S had an unhappy  experience  with her first vehicle and I can see shes  
concerned with the way the finance agreement for her replacement vehicle was structured.
Since the complaint was referred  to this service  our investigator has tried to resolve various 
issues between the parties and I think  that to a large extent this has been successful. I 
believe that the only remaining issue is whether those  monthly  payments made by Miss S 
towards the first agreement should be refunded.
Both the hire purchase agreements to which this complaint relates  are regulated  consumer 
credit agreements and our service is able to consider complaints relating to them. MBFS 
supplied the first vehicle  and it would potentially have been responsible for a complaint about  
the quality of that item. But it seems that B and Miss S agreed to a mutually acceptable 
replacement vehicle being supplied.
Ref: DRN10254262Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And relevant law here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA). Ive also considered section 56 the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  This means  that MBFS is potentially  liable for any 
misrepresentation made by B in respect  of the new hire purchase agreement.
Where information is incomplete or contradictory  - as some  of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Theres been no information supplied as to the exact fault with the first vehicle. But I can 
easily infer that it wasnt of satisfactory quality even after attempts had been  made  to repair  
it. Normally that would  mean that Miss S wouldve  been able to reject it, end the agreement 
and obtain a refund of her deposit.  Miss S says she was assured the original  agreement  
would simply roll over to the new vehicle.  Im not in a position to know what  she was told - 
but I dont doubt  that is what she believed would happen.
I dont think that was ever feasible. The first hire purchase agreement was a legal document 
which related to a specific item. The vehicle itself belonged to MBFS. Miss S wouldnt 
become the legal owner of the vehicle until the hire purchase agreement  was fully settled. 
So a simple swop wasnt possible. It was necessary to settle the first agreement  - which B 
did - and for a new agreement to be commenced relating to the replacement vehicle. It may 
be this wasnt explained to Miss S all that well at the time.
Whilst whats happened is slightly different to the norm - in that instead of being  rejected the 
faulty vehicle was taken in part exchange  - the overall effect is similar. Miss S wasnt 
required to pay anything  to swop  and her initial deposit was used against the new vehicle. 
That seems  to be a fair and reasonable way to settle  the first agreement. And given  shes  
accepted the investigators view Ive taken it shes happy with the second agreement.
Our usual  approach is that where a vehicle is rejected  as not being of satisfactory quality a 
business is entitled to make  appropriate deductions from any refund. This is to take account 
of the use thats  been made  of the vehicle. And its in accordance with the provisions of the 
CRA. Here the settling  of the first agreement meant the original vehicle wasnt  formally 
rejected but part-exchanged. But for the purposes of this complaint Im going to deal with the 
matter as if the vehicle  had been  rejected.
This takes  us back to the outstanding issue of what should be done regarding  the monthly  
payments made between  August 2018  and December 2018  relating to the first agreement.
The original  vehicle itself wasnt used to any measurable extent by Miss S. But for at least 
part of the period she was provided with a courtesy  vehicle. So its only fair Miss S should  
have to make some  payments. Otherwise  shed be getting free motoring which  would put her 
in a better position  than if things hadnt  gone wrong.
A complaint letter she sent to MBFS dated  20 November 2018 indicates  that between  13 
October 2018 and 23 October 2018  she had use of a courtesy vehicle. And the same letter 
implies that after the faulty vehicle was collected  a second time - on 27 October 2018 - a 
courtesy vehicle was also supplied. Miss S refers to it in the letter  and complains that this 
vehicle is more expensive  to run and of lesser specification than her own vehicle. She also 
requests to be left with a courtesy vehicle until a replacement is sourced.
Ref: DRN10254263In the absence of any evidence to the contrary,  I infer that it was probably only for about 
one month  or so in total that Miss S wasnt able to use her own vehicle or alternatively a 
courtesy vehicle. But if Miss S can provide information to show  this isnt correct Ill 
reconsider this point.  Ive taken into account  the courtesy vehicle wasnt of the same  
specification and I accept  that she wouldve also been caused  distress and inconvenience 
through all the uncertainty.
In summary,  the first agreement lasted about  four months and for about one month or so of 
this period Miss S was left without access to a vehicle. As the refund of two monthly 
payments has either been paid or offered that seems to be fair and takes  into account the 
loss of use and the lower  specification of the courtesy vehicle.
Im uncertain as to how many payments were made on the first agreement - whether it was 
four or five. To be clear, I intend  to order that Miss S should only have to pay two monthly 
payments and anything above that should  be refunded to her. I also think  she should receive 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  shes been  caused.
MBFS has queried this award of £100.  And it points to various other benefits that Miss S 
received. This included  a newer vehicle  with less mileage and minor reductions  in some 
other costs. Ive thought about  this. It seems probable that the first vehicle supplied to Miss S 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. In which case shed have been entitled to reject it. And she 
was under no obligation to take out a new finance agreement.  Instead  she chose to take out 
the new agreement  on the terms offered which included the specifications of the vehicle to 
be supplied. This was presumably a freely  negotiated deal between  Miss S and B (on behalf 
of MBFS). I dont think it necessarily directly  addressed the inconvenience which Miss S had 
experienced. As opposed to being  an incentive  to take out a new agreement and not 
formally reject the first vehicle.
Potentially the most valuable of the benefits of the new agreement to which MBFS refers 
(newer vehicle and less mileage) partly arise from the fact the agreement  was taken out four 
months later than the first agreement. Miss S paid for fair use of the first vehicle. So as shes  
starting the later agreement on broadly  the same repayment terms to the first agreement its 
only to be expected that this vehicle would be no older than the one it replaced and with the 
same or less mileage. Otherwise  Miss S would be left in a worse  position.
Ive kept the award to a modest level to reflect the overall circumstances but I still think its 
fair and reasonable. Accordingly Im upholding this complaint to the extent Ive indicated.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I require Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited to take the following action:
1.Refund all monthly payments - except for two payments which  may be retained for fair 
use - made on the first agreement. Account  may be taken  of any payment made directly 
by B, to Miss S, in calculating the amount ( if any) to be refunded;
Ref: DRN102542642. Pay Miss S £100 compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1025426