K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) wont  treat a loan taken 
out by somebody  else as fraud without the matter being referred to the police.
He wants to repay Lending Stream  the money  that was borrowed fraudulently  and to have 
any reference to the loan removed from his credit file.
 
background
The issue  to be resolved here is simply whether  Lending Stream  has acted reasonably  in 
requiring Mr J to report a loan taken  out in his name  fraudulently  to the police  in order to 
close the matter. So Ill keep the information about  whats happened as short  as possible.
Mr J noticed some money had been paid into his bank account (with Bank 2) from Lending 
Stream  and then transferred to another bank. He saw this had also happened with money  
from another lender (Lender 2).
After some delay, Bank 2 accepted Mr J had been the victim of identity fraud. It put the 
money that had been taken out of his account back so that Mr J could repay Lending Stream 
and Lender 2.
Mr J got in touch with us. And our adjudicator was able to help by getting Mr J to complete 
an acknowledgement of fraud form required by Lending Stream.
But Lending  Stream said it couldnt  review or close the matter  by updating Mr Js credit file  
even if he repaid the money  unless  he was able to give it a crime reference number. But 
Bank 2 (and Lender 3) had already accepted  Mr J had been  the victim of fraud and he didnt  
see any point in wasting  police resources.
Our adjudicator agreed that Mr J had been  the victim of identity fraud  thatd already been  
accepted by Bank 2 and Lender 2. And he was aware of Mr Js personal health issues.  So 
he asked Lending  Stream to review the matter without the need for a crime reference 
number.
But Lending  Stream wouldnt do this. So Mr Js complaint has been passed to an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete   as is the case here  I have to reach my decision based 
on the balance  of probabilities. In other words, what do I think is most likely to have 
happened?
Here, it seems fairly  clear  Mr J was the victim  of identity fraud. Thats  been accepted by 
Bank 2 and Lender 2. Mr J has been given the money back  by Bank 2 so he can repay  
Lending Stream (and Lender  2).
Ref: DRN16645282I understand the need for Lending Stream to follow its normal processes  particularly when 
dealing with cases of fraud. Indeed, I cant tell Lending Stream (or any financial business) 
what its processes should be.
But sometimes the application of a business normal processes or policy can result  in an 
unfair outcome for a customer. And Im satisfied thats whats happened here  particularly 
bearing in mind Mr Js personal health issues, which Lending Stream  are aware  of.
So I think Lending Stream  should  complete  its review of Mr Js case without  the need for him 
to report the matter to the police and provide a crime reference  number.
I cant say what the outcome of Lending  Streams  review will be. Thats  a matter  for it to 
determine. But, based on the evidence  that is available, its likely the loan taken out in Mr Js 
name was the result  of anything other than him being the victim of identity fraud.
From that conclusion, itd follow that Lending  Stream would allow  Mr J to repay the loan. 
I understand he has the money  and he must  do so to enable Lending Stream to remove  
the loan from his credit file.
Id expect the review  to be carried out in a timely  and efficient manner  to bring the matter  
to a speedy conclusion.
Although not part of my final decision  and in order  to resolve the underlying  issue  to this 
complaint as speedily as possible  I make  the following  comments.
If Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Lending  Stream) concludes the loan was taken out as a result 
of Mr J being the victim of identity fraud, Id expect it to allow Mr J to repay the money 
borrowed (without any interest or charges being  applied). Once  he has done  this, all 
reference to the loan should be removed from Mr Js credit file.
If Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Lending  Stream) reaches a different conclusion,  Mr J will be 
entitled to bring  a new complaint, which will be considered on its own merits.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that Gain  Credit LLC (trading  as 
Lending Stream)  should review Mr Js case of a loan allegedly  being taken out as a result of 
identity fraud  without the need for him to report the matter to the police or provide a crime 
reference number.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.  
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1664528