K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Mis Sold Sipp Ltds (MSS) failure  to advise him properly means he has 
lost the opportunity to pursue his claim in court.
Background
In September  2011, after receiving advice from a financial  advisor,  Mr H purchased an 
annuity. In June 2017 Mr H asked MSS to represent him as he believed  the advice hed 
been given was unsuitable.  
MSS said that it told Mr H in an initial telephone call that the Financial Ombudsman Service  
(FOS) was its preferred route  for redress. It said that it also told Mr H that it didnt take 
litigation action and he would need  to take his own legal advice if he wanted to consider  
court action.
In June 2017, MSS sent an email to Mr H setting  out how it would handle  his complaint. It 
said that it felt the best thing to do would  be to take the case straight  to FOS. At this point   
Mr H asked MSS to set out what steps  it would typically take in a case  like his. MSS  replied  
explaining that it would ask the financial advisor  for relevant information, analyse this, and 
then decide whether to raise a further complaint with the business,  or take the case  to FOS.
In August  2017,  Mr H and MSS  discussed  taking the complaint to FOS, which  included  FOS 
award limit of £150,000. During this exchange, Mr H also asked MSS if he could take court 
action against  the financial advisor  for the difference. MSS said in reply:
So if you were awarded return to original  position  and this would cost in excess of 
£150,000 then yes you could go to court for the difference if it worked  out that way.
In August  2017  MSS  submitted Mr Hs complaint for a mis-sold pension  to FOS. A FOS 
adjudicator looked at the case and in December  2017 told MSS  and Mr H that he was not 
upholding the complaint.  Mr H didnt agree so it was passed to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
In March 2018 Mr H terminated his agreement  with MSS. And in May 2018  FOS issued its 
final decision  not to uphold the complaint.
In July 2018, Mr H wrote  to MSS and asked if, it had considered the six year rule for taking 
a financial business  to court. MSS replied saying:
The six year rule is only part of the question it has a second  part that being three 
years from when you should have reasonably realised something  was wrong. So 
basically three years  from when you first complained  to HL is your consideration in 
this matter
Mr H says that he was not aware that MSS would only take his case to FOS. And he says 
that its reply in July 2018 shows that it gave  him negligent advice. He says he thought MSS 
would represent  him at court. And he says he has lost his opportunities with FOS and High 
Court through its negligence.
Ref: DRN19535442Mr H complained to the Legal Ombudsman. The case was passed  to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service)  in April 2019 as part of the 
change in the regulation  of CMCs.
Mr H included in his complaint the opinion from his legal advisor that said he thought  MSS  
had been negligent. 
Our investigator didnt  think MSS had done anything wrong.  He said he wouldnt expect MSS 
to provide legal  advice  and he felt that it had reasonably explained the service it provided. 
Mr H disagreed. He said MSS  didnt  clarify  any time limitation and this had prevented him 
from being able to take court action  following  FOS  decision. The case has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Both Mr H and MSS have  given us the email  exchange they had when they first made 
contact in June  2017. I cant see that at any point does Mr H suggest  he would like to 
consider taking his case to court.  But MSS does make clear its intention to take Mr Hs case  
to FOS.
Ive seen a copy  of the terms and conditions Mr H signed in June 2017 when he asked MSS 
to represent him. The first paragraph in the document includes the following sentence:
We are not legal or financial advisors  and as such will not give you legal or financial 
advice at any time, either verbally or in writing.
The terms also described the 14 day cooling off period in which  Mr H could cancel the 
agreement. So Im satisfied that not only did MSS make it clear it would not give legal 
advice, and that, after being  made aware  of this,   Mr H had the opportunity  to cancel it.
I can see that Mr H refers  to court action in the email exchange in August 2017. But this was 
related to possible court action against the pension advisor should FOS make  an award. I 
cant see anything in this exchange that persuades  me that Mr H told MSS  he wanted to 
keep open the option of future court  action.
Im also satisfied that MSS made  it clear  to Mr H that it would make his complaint  on his 
behalf to FOS. Mr H asked MSS  to set out what  steps it would take, and its response  was 
clear  it would  complain again  to the financial advisor, or it would create a case to take to 
the Financial Ombudsman. So MSS  had repeated what it had already told Mr H in their 
initial telephone conversation.
I am concerned that MSS told Mr H in August  2017  that he could ask a court to award the 
difference if the FOS found that he was entitled  to more than the limit of compensation it can 
make. FOS can recommend that the business pays more than the limit, but we cant  require 
the business to pay anything over that amount. If a complainant  accepts the ombudsmans  
decision, its unlikely  that he would be able to go to court to ask for further compensation. In 
circumstances like these we would  suggest  that the complainant consider getting 
independent legal advice before accepting an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN19535443But that is irrelevant  in this case.  I say that for two reasons.  Firstly, the ombudsman didnt 
uphold Mr Hs complaint  so no award  was made.  And, as I said earlier,  Mr H gave  no 
indication that he intended to seek court action.
Mr Hs legal advisor has told him that in his view MSS was negligent.  I cant pass opinion  on 
that  as that would  be for a court to decide.  But I can consider if MSS  has given poor 
service to Mr H by not advising him that there may be a limitation risk. So Ive considered  
whether MSS should have advised  Mr H on the timescales for taking court action as set out 
in the Limitation Act 1980.
I consider this issue with the benefit  of hindsight  and it may have  been  preferable if MSS 
had advised Mr H to seek legal advice about  the limitation period. But MSS didnt have that 
benefit and it had no reason to believe that Mr H intended to take court action. Interpretation  
of the Limitation Act 1980 is not straightforward, and only a court  can decide whether or not 
a case has been  brought  in time.
I cannot provide  comment on the legal opinion given to Mr H. But I do note that it states that 
the prospect of a successful claim against  the pension provider is low, and this would reduce 
any award that may be made should  a court decide MSS was negligent.
So, I dont find MSS  has provided a poor service to Mr H. Im satisfied that it did what  it said 
it would  do. MSS did represent him in his complaint to FOS. And in doing so it made  clear  
that it wasnt able to give financial or legal advice. Having accepted this, Mr H decided to 
continue to use the service provided  by MSS.
I know this isnt the answer  Mr H was looking  for. But for the reasons given above  I dont  
think that MSS has provided poor service.  Ive not commented on whether or not he has lost 
the opportunity  to pursue  a claim in court. That is something he would need to take up with 
his legal advisors.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1953544