K821x#15complaint
Mr Es unhappy with the way Barclays Bank  UK PLC dealt with a payment  from his current 
account and with the amount of compensation its subsequently offered him.
background
Mr E says he was told if there  wasnt enough  money  in his current account to make a 
£20,000 payment  Barclays  would automatically  draw the money  down from a savings  
account. But he says to his surprise the payment  was declined  causing him embarrassment 
and inconvenience.  Hes also unhappy  with Barclays offer of £50 compensation for whatd  
happened. He thinks £1,000 is more appropriate.
Barclays said in its final response that Mr Es Open Plan Arrangement  was an historic 
arrangement that would transfer funds based on the statement  balance  on his account. 
When a card payment  is presented on the account  the merchant will perform a check  of the 
available balance before  debiting the funds. Where the available balance  is below the 
amount being  presented this will cause the transaction to be declined. As debit card 
payments are electronic requests they will not affect  the available  balance prior to showing in 
the statement. This means  the Open Plan Arrangement will not be triggered.  In recognition 
of the incorrect information given to Mr E in the branch and the time he spent on the phone 
its prepared to offer £50 compensation.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. In summary he said:
Barclays told Mr E several times that he shouldnt leave too much money in his 
current account and it would automatically transfer  from his savings account any 
money needed for larger  transactions from his current  account. Here this didnt 
happen. 
Barclays has also now explained how the Open Plan Arrangement relied on 
statement balances and why this wasn't triggered in this case. But it didnt tell Mr E of 
this previously.
Mr E was a long standing customer and hed spent some time on the phone sorting 
things out. The payment  was eventually made later the same day. This had caused 
him distress and anxiety.   
Barclays accepts it gave Mr E wrong information but its offer of £50 compensation 
isnt enough. To put things right this sum should be increased by £100 to £150.
Barclays doesnt agree. It accepts Mr E had made more than one call and visited  the branch. 
But it doesnt agree  this would cause any additional  embarrassment. The payment was 
made the same day and the recipient wouldnt have been aware of any delay. A £100 
increase in its offer of compensation  isn't warranted. 
Mr E doesnt  agree.  He says he made two calls to Barclays and £150  isn't enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN14209752Barclays accepts it couldve dealt with Mr E better. All that remains is for me to consider 
what a fair and reasonable award  of compensation is.
In this case Barclays didnt clearly explain to Mr E how the Open Plan Arrangement would 
work when  he was making  a card payment. It also encouraged him not to leave too much 
money in his current account and didnt explain that card payments wouldnt trigger a 
transfer of money  from his savings account  due to the way card payments were handled 
without affecting  the current  account  statement balance. Mr E was given incorrect  
information about this in the branch and he was wrongly led to believe  a transfer of money 
would be made  automatically.  
Mr E says he was surprised and embarrassed when the payment was declined.  I accept  that 
this embarrassment  was sincerely  felt by Mr E even  though the transaction  being declined  
wouldve only been apparent to the merchant. And the payment was made successfully later 
the same  day. 
Mr E had to communicate with the bank to sort things out and this took some  time on his 
part. He made  two reasonably lengthy calls and appears to have also gone into the branch. 
The fact the transaction was declined also understandably caused him particular concern 
and inconvenience.  And as a long standing customer, and in view of his particular personal 
situation, he clearly found  the whole process  vexing and it caused  him ongoing anxiety even 
after the payment  was eventually made  on the day. 
Mr E was clearly caused distress and inconvenience  by Barclays failings, the incorrect  
information he was given, by whatd happened  and in putting things right.
Taking everything into account,  including the levels of awards  we make,  I agree with the 
adjudicator that £150 is a fair and reasonable award  of compensation for this in the particular 
circumstances of Mr Es case. And I dont see any compelling reason to change the 
proposed outcome in this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Barclays Bank UK PLC should, if it hasnt done so 
already, pay Mr E £150 compensation.
Barclays must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr E 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr E how much  its taken  off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1420975