K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled 
his claim on his car insurance  policy.
Background
Mr G had a collision in his car. He arranged though LV to have the damage  repaired at an 
authorised garage  (A). When the car was delivered  back to him Mr G found  the parking 
sensor system wasnt working properly. He also said there were scratches to the bodywork 
and bumper and said these occurred whilst it was with A.
Further repairs on the defective sensors  were  carried out at two garages,  and the matter was 
resolved four months  later. However,  the scratches Mr G reported to have happened whilst  
the car was with A were  not repaired, and LV said these would need to be subject to a new 
claim on his policy as they were separate from the original accident.
Mr G complained to LV about the length  of time the repairs had taken, and he said the 
scratches occurred whilst the car was being  worked on by A, so should  be repaired.
In their final response letter, LV said it had authorised the repairs  to the sensors and that this 
was being carried  out. It made no mention of the scratches. Mr G complained  to us. He said 
he was unhappy  that damage  was caused  to his car while it was being repaired,  and he 
didnt have use of it for four months.
LV were  contacted by our investigator.  LV confirmed the following:
the cars  sensors had subsequently been  repaired;
theyd provided Mr G with a replacement vehicle  throughout the time his car was being 
repaired;
theyd paid £648 for a taxi to collect Mr G at the airport; and
as a gesture of goodwill, theyd replaced the bumper on his car, to the value  of approx. 
£1,000 and waived his policy excess of £300.
Our investigator thought that LV had been  fair in resolving the complaint. She thought that 
LV giving Mr G a hire car and paying for a taxi whilst the repairs were  being carried out was 
reasonable. And likewise, she thought  it replacing  the bumper and waiving the policy  excess 
as a gesture of goodwill  was fair. She didnt think LV needed to do anything  else.
Mr G didnt agree with this view.  He said he was unhappy with the quality of repairs carried  
out at the two authorised  garages.  He was unhappy that the car was scratched and thought  
this had happened when it was moved  between the garages, so he shouldnt have to make a 
new claim. And he thought it was unfair that he didnt have his car for four months whilst still 
having to make finance payments on it.
So, the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN18838082My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G made  a claim on his LV car insurance  policy as a result of having  an accident.  The 
damage caused to his car in this accident  was repaired satisfactorily and is not part of this 
complaint. The complaint  is about defects and scratches caused  to his car whilst it was 
being repaired by LVs two authorised garages, the length of time the defects took to be 
rectified, and that not all the scratches  were repaired. 
If Mr G wants to make a complaint  about  the standard  of the repairs  carried out to the 
damage caused in the accident, he will have to make a new complaint to LV. And  if he is 
not happy with LVs response he can then complain  to us. 
The defect  with the parking sensors  was found by Mr G once the original  accident  repair  was 
completed. An engineer identified the problem  as being caused  by a poor repair, and 
recommended the entire sensor system should be replaced. However, this was not done 
straight away, there was a dispute between the garages as to who was responsible. And LV 
wanted their own engineer to look at the car. As a result of this it took four months  for LV to 
resolve the issue. I think this is an excessive  amount  of time.
Having said that, I do think LV treated  Mr G fairly whilst the car was being repaired.  They  
provided him with a hire car throughout. And on one occasion they agreed to pay over £600 
for a taxi to pick him up at the airport when he returned from holiday, as he didnt want  to use 
a hire car. I do think that Mr G was caused some  distress  and inconvenience  by the delay, 
but as LV has also waived the £300  excess Mr G should have paid on the claim, which it 
didnt have to do, I think  this is fair and reasonable compensation. I do not require LV to do 
anything further  in respect of the delayed  repair  to the sensors.
Mr G has also said his cars bodywork  and bumper was scratched during the repair  process. 
Nobody can say for sure when this happened, and who was responsible. Where there is 
conflicting evidence  or opinion  I must decide,  on the balance of probabilities,  what  I think  is 
most likely to have occurred.
Mr G has said he saw the scratches after the vehicle was returned to him from garage  A. 
However, some scratches,  with the exception of the one on the bumper, were  recorded on 
garage As check-in  sheet, which would suggest  they were  pre-existing. And Mr G did not 
mention the scratches to LVs engineer  when  he examined the vehicle after the repairs had 
been completed, which I find surprising given they were clearly important to him.
So, I think LV were fair in their decision to decline  to repair the scratches as part of the claim, 
as they didnt think they had happened  during the repair process.  However, as Ive said 
above, the scratch to the bumper was not noted on the check-in sheet, so I think  this scratch  
probably did occur when the car was with A. But as LV have replaced this bumper anyway, 
as a gesture of goodwill,  I do not think they need to do anything else in this regard.
Mr G has said it is unfair  that he was without his car for four months, but still had to make his 
finance payments  on it. These are payments he would have had to make  anyway, and he 
was given a replacement car, free of charge. I am satisfied he has not lost out financially due 
to not having his own car, so do not think LV should  compensate him further for this.
Ref: DRN18838083As a result of all of the above,  I am satisfied that LV have taken appropriate action and paid 
the right amount of compensation in response to Mr Gs complaint following his claim for 
damage to his car. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1883808