K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Barclays  Bank UK PLC, mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  
when he applied for a new credit  card in 1996. His application related to a joint Barclaycard 
Visa and Mastercard and the PPI covered both of these.
The PPI protected  Mr S against losing his job or being unable to work.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  this complaint  and said that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr S 
disagrees with this and it has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
These events are obviously from over 23 years  ago. So it seems to me that the best record  
we still have from the sale is Mr Ss actual  credit card application form, dated 1996. On the 
form, I can see Mr S was given the option of whether or not to have PPI. There was a 
section which was headed Payment Protection  Plan. In this section, there was an option 
box to mark if he wanted to have any PPI cover. And there was another  box which he could 
use to decline the PPI. 
On his form I can see a tick was placed into the first of these boxes beside a statement 
which read Yes, I want my Barclaycard account  to be covered against  unemployment,  
sickness and death.. The box directly below this read No, I do not require protection..  
So I think these things  show  Mr S would have been able to see that he had a choice when 
he applied  for his credit card. He could have just as easily ticked  the box declining  the PPI 
which would have meant it wasnt added to his account. I think  the fact he ticked the first 
option is evidence  he wanted PPI at the time.
Barclays conceded it may have recommended the PPI during the sale.  If it advised  him, 
Barclays had an additional  responsibility to ensure the PPI was suitable. 
I think the policy was suitable for him because  he was eligible for the cover and not caught 
by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies.  And my knowledge of what 
this policy  cost is that it would have been affordable for Mr S.
Mr S told us he didnt need  any PPI because he had good protection from sickness through  
his job. I understand  the point hes making  but Im afraid this doesnt  necessarily  mean the 
PPI wasnt suitable.  In the event of a successful  claim  on the PPI policy, Mr S wouldve been 
able to have his outstanding balance reduced  by 10% each month for up to 12 months.  This 
would have been in addition to any other  means he had at the time.
Ref: DRN16039692I cant say Mr S was given all the information he should have been. But I think  his application 
form showed there was a cost to this PPI, directly next to where  he made his selection. I also 
think the PPI would have showed  up on his monthly statements and he would have been 
sent something explaining  the cover.
For me to uphold this complaint, Id need to think it was more  likely that Mr S wasnt  given an 
option or there were some other serious flaws in the way the policy  was sold. I simply dont 
have sufficient evidence  in this case to reach that a conclusion. 
Mr S specifically selected the PPI when he filled in his credit card application. I cant  say why 
he did this, but I think  its most  likely he thought the protection was something he wanted  to 
have at the time.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint  and I dont require Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1603969