K821x#15Complaint 
Ms O complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) hasnt assessed her home insurance 
claim fairly. She says the cash settlement amount offered by Ageas is not enough to cover 
the full extent of the repair works.
Ms O says that Ageas should pay her the amount she and Mr H paid to have the repair  works  
completed. And she wants Ageas to pay further compensation for the errors she says it made.
Ms O brings this complaint on behalf  of her late husband, Mr H.
Background 
I sent the parties my initial findings on this complaint  in February 2020. I explained in a 
provisional decision, which is attached to this decision, why I intended to uphold  Ms Os 
complaint. 
In summary,  Ms O and Mr H had a home  insurance policy which  was underwritten  by Ageas. 
Mr H discovered  that his bathroom and study had been damaged by a water  leak.  Mr H says 
he identified the source of the leak and stopped it, and contacted Ageas to report the damage.  
Ageas offered a settlement amount of £2,312.20 (minus excess  fees).  Mr H complained that 
Ageas offer wasnt  enough to allow for the necessary works to be completed. 
Ageas disagreed with the amount of work  required and used its own process  to calculate the 
costs of the required work. Ageas  subsequently appointed an independent  surveyor  to visit 
the property. The surveyor  reported that the damage  had occurred  gradually  over a period of 
time. Ageas said that this type of damage wasnt covered under the policy  and withdrew its 
settlement offer.  Ageas  offered  £100 compensation to recognise  it had incorrectly offered to 
settle the claim in the first instance.
Mr H remained  unhappy and so brought a complaint to this service.  
Ageas disagreed with our investigators  views  on this complaint and it was passed to an 
ombudsman to consider.  That ombudsman issued  a provisional decision that did not uphold  
the complaint  but was unable to consider  Ageas or Ms Os responses to the provisional 
decision before  going  on extended  leave. 
The complaint was subsequently passed  to me, and having considered all of the evidence 
including Ageas and Ms Os response  to the first provisional decision I issued  a second 
provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision I concluded that in line with our services usual approach  it would 
be unfair for an insurer to rely on a gradual damage  exclusion if the consumer couldnt 
reasonably have known the escape  of water  was happening and if they did something about 
it as soon as they could.  And overall  and on balance, I considered that Mr H and Ms O most 
likely were not aware of the leak and when they did become aware  of it they acted quickly, 
and that the damage caused to Mr H and Ms Os bathroom and study  should  be covered by 
their insurance policy with Ageas. 
Ref: DRN18181982Replies to my provisional decision 
Ms O accepted my provisional decision and had no further substantive  points to make. 
Ageas disagreed with me and has made  two responses which  Ive summarised below;
In summary  Ageas  first response  said:
there has been no new information that it felt would warrant  a change from the first 
ombudsmans provisional decision.  
it did not understand the reasoning for the change from the first provision decision.
it would like an explanation as to why interest should be applied from December 2018, 
as there have been significant delays in response  received from the Financial 
Ombudsman Service which they had no control  over. 
why has the compensation amount reverted to £200.00 given the first provisional 
decision had agreed £100.00? 
In summary  Ageas  second response said:
it had declined  the claim based  on the report from the surveyor  from September 2018 which 
said that the damage had occurred over a period  of time and would have been visible.  
there is no disagreement  that the damage to the bathroom and study was caused  by an 
`escape of water  or that `escape  of water is an insured  peril.
whilst  it appreciates  that the escape of water may have been occurring out of sight, a 
qualified surveyor  is of the opinion that the water damage  would have been  obvious to the 
customer and would  have been occurring prior to the incident being reported in January.
Financial Ombudsman Service usually puts more emphasis on the expert who has the 
higher qualification  and it is unsure why it is expected to prove our qualified  surveyor 
would be more  knowledgeable than a plumber.
the customers plumber commented  that a build-up of heavy scale on the valve  
mechanism caused  the cistern  to overflow, so it was a maintenance issue that caused 
the damage.  
when damage occurs  out of sight it can be difficult for a customer to know  there is a 
problem, but this shouldnt  negate  the need  to ensure  the property is in good  order.
Page 11 of the policy booklet states:  
`4. Taking  care of your property You and your family  must take all precautions to avoid 
injury, loss or damage and take all practicable steps to safeguard all the property insured 
from loss or damage. In addition,  you must also maintain the property insured in a good 
state of repair. Failure  to do so could invalidate  your cover in the event of a claim.
Ref: DRN18181983the point that no further damage occurred between  January and August  following the 
replacement of the overflow  pipe supports their surveyors  comments that the water 
damage happened gradually  and over a period of time prior to it being  reported by the 
customer.
the policy  wording is clear in that it is only responsible for damaged items and that there  
is no cover for anything which matches but is undamaged.
although  escape of water is an insured peril, there is no cover  where  the cause is due to 
poor maintenance.
it does not dispute the damage, only that the cause was not sudden, unexpected or a 
one off event.
My findings  
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive considered  Ageas  responses to my provisional 
decision which includes  a number of elements  and I will respond to each  in turn.
Second provision  decision
Ageas says that there  is no new information and it does not understand why my provisional 
decision is different from the initial ombudsmans first provisional decision.
As I explain in my provisional  decision Ms O responded to the initial  ombudsmans first 
provisional decision with further information  and the first ombudsman  went  on extended  
leave before having the opportunity to consider that further information.  I have had the 
benefit of considering Ms Os response  to the first provisional decision and I have taken it 
into account in reaching my decision.  
Interest and compensation
Ageas have questioned  why I have awarded  interest  and why I have  awarded  compensation 
of £200.
My decision  to require  Ageas to pay interest on the award in this case is in line with this 
services usual approach.  Ms O has not had the benefit of the £7,686  that was used  to pay 
the invoice on 4/12/18  because Ageas  declined  the claim. It is on this basis  that I am 
awarding interest.
As I explain in my provisional  decision I have awarded compensation of £200 for the trouble 
and upset caused by Ageas handling  of the claim and its decision to decline the claim.  
Evidence from Ageas  surveyor
Ageas says that I should put more emphasis on the evidence from their surveyor  as he is 
more qualified than the plumber. 
Ref: DRN18181984In looking at the evidence I have taken  into account  not only the source of the evidence  but 
also the timeline of events  and the point  in time from which the evidence comes. As I say in 
my provisional decision the evidence from Ageas  surveyor is from some 8 months  after the 
event, whereas the evidence from the plumber is contemporaneous to the event.  And I also 
consider that the damage that the surveyor  identifies is not inconsistent with Mr H and Ms 
Os description of events.   
Matching sets
Ageas says the policy wording is clear, it is only responsible for damaged items and that 
there is no cover for anything which matches  but is undamaged.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  putting aside whether it is appropriate to consider 
damage to walls in the same room in the context of matching sets, I have seen evidence  
that the other walls  were  damaged. For example,  Ageas  own surveyors report  refers to 
water having  tracked to other corners of the room. Mr Hs original complaint describes in 
detail the extent of the damage to the other walls.  And the quote supplied  by Mr H shows 
that repairs are required  to other walls.
Cause of the damage and exclusions
Ageas says that it accepts that the damage  was caused by an escape  of water and that this 
is an insured peril. Its original position was that this claim should  be excluded  because the 
damage was caused gradually over a period of time,  and my provisional decision sets out 
why I disagree that this exclusion  should apply.
Ageas now says that the damage  should be excluded because it was caused by a lack of 
maintenance and that the cause was not sudden, unexpected or a one off event.
In my provisional decision I explained  this services approach to gradual damage and why I 
think Ageas  should  meet  this claim. I would add that, as I set out in my provisional decision,  I 
consider that Mr H and Ms O most  likely were not aware of the leak and when they did 
become aware  of it they acted quickly. And as such I think  this could reasonably  be 
considered to be an unexpected event. 
Overall and on balance,  Ageas  has not provided  any additional information in response to 
my provisional decision that persuades me to change my mind.  For the reasons set out 
above and in my provision  decision,  I think that Ageas should not decline this claim.
my final decision 
My final decision is that Ageas Insurance Limited  must:
Pay Ms O the cash settlement amount of £7,686 (minus applicable excess fees)  plus 
interest* from the 4/12/18 until settlement is made.
Ref: DRN18181985Pay Ms O £200 compensation (minus any compensation already paid).  Ageas 
Insurance Limited must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Ms O accepts my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020. 
 
Garry Hunter
Ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to  the dates stated.  If 
Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest due to Ms O it should tell her how much  its taken off. It should also give Ms O a certificate  showing this if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN18181986copy of provisional decision
Complaint
Ms O complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) hasnt assessed her home insurance claim  
fairly. She says the cash settlement amount  offered  by Ageas is not enough  to cover the full extent of 
the repair  works.
Ms O says that Ageas  should pay her the amount she and Mr H paid to have the repair works 
completed. And she wants Ageas to pay further compensation  for the errors she says it made.
Ms O brings this complaint  on behalf of her late husband, Mr H.
Background
Ms O and Mr H had a home  insurance policy which was underwritten by Ageas.
In early January 2018,  Mr H discovered that his bathroom and study had been damaged by a water 
leak. Mr H says he identified the source of the leak and stopped it.
The next day Mr H contacted  Ageas  to report that his bathroom and study had been damaged. Ageas 
issued a claim  reference  number and asked Mr H to provide quotes for the repair works and the cost 
of replacing damaged items. Mr H said he explained at the time that he would not be proceeding with 
the claim for a number of months.
At around the same time Mr H replaced  the damaged overflow pipe which was the cause  of the water 
leak and repaired  a faulty mechanism in the cistern that may have also contributed to the leak.
Mr H contacted Ageas  again in August 2018 when he provided a quote  for the repair  works. Mr H and 
Ms O say that the delay in providing  the quote was because Mr H had serious  health issues, they 
were already having major works done to their property and they were also dealing with family issues.
 
Ageas offered a settlement  amount of £2,312.20 (minus  excess fees) which  it considered  to be 
sufficient for the scope  of works. Mr H complained  that Ageas cash settlement wasnt enough to allow  
for the necessary works to be completed. Mr H and Ms O have provided  a quote  from July 2018 for 
£8,600 for the repairs and an invoice  dated 30 November 2018 for £13,524 which includes  £8,480 
(excluding VAT) for the relevant work.
Ageas disagreed with the amount of work required,  for example it said it would only pay for one wall in 
each room  to be repaired  as it said the other  walls  were undamaged and cost of work to these 
undamaged walls  was not covered under  the policy  as the policy did not include cover for matching  
sets. Ageas used its own process to calculate the costs of the required work.
In early September 2018, Ageas appointed an independent surveyor to visit the property.  The surveyor 
reported the damage had occurred gradually  over a period of time.  Ageas  subsequently said that this 
type of damage wasnt covered under the policy and withdrew its settlement offer.  Ageas offered £100 
compensation to recognise it had incorrectly  offered to settle the claim  in the first instance
Mr H remained unhappy and so brought a complaint  to this service.
Our investigator who initially reviewed the complaint concluded that the claim should  be covered  by 
Ageas and that the settlement amount  should reflect the costs Mr H and Ms O incurred in having the 
repairs completed by their contractor. She also recommended Ageas  pay £200 to Ms O as compensation.
Ref: DRN18181987Ageas disagreed and in summary it said:
It had asked Mr H to provide estimates in January  2018, but it didnt  hear back from him until 
August 2018. So it couldnt be held responsible for the damage getting worse.
The insured has a responsibility  to ensure  the damage doesnt get worse.
The cause  of the leak was poor installation  or maintenance of the overflow  pipe and this isnt an 
insured peril under  the policy.
Mr Hs contractors  scope  of works puts the property  back into a better position  than it was prior 
to the leak.
The policy doesnt  provide cover for matching sets, and if the claim had been accepted, it 
wouldnt have covered undamaged areas.
It couldnt understand how the investigator came to £200  compensation.
It put forward  its previous  settlement  offer of £2,312.20.
It said the rates it used to calculate the cash settlement reflected the average rate for contractors  
in the area.
It would  amend its schedule  of works  to include stripping the lining paper  and replacing and 
redecorating the skirting  boards.
A second investigator considered Ageas  further points and said:
Ageas should contribute at least 50% towards the cost of undamaged  items which  form part of a 
matching set.
The entire two rooms  would need to be redecorated  as undamaged walls would be discoloured 
by plastering the damaged  walls. It would  be necessary to remove the bath and radiators to do 
this, so this should  also be factored in.
Its standard industry practice for parties to share responsibility, so she wouldve expected Ageas 
to have  proactively  contacted Mr H and offer to assess the claim. As such she considered £200 
compensation to be fair.
Ageas disagreed and so the complaint  was considered by an ombudsman. That ombudsman issued  a 
provisional decision  but was unable to consider Ageas or Ms Os responses to her provisional 
decision before going on extended leave. I have summarised that provisional decision and the 
responses below. In summary, in the provisional decision the ombudsman said:
she was satisfied the damage happened gradually  and was not caused by a one off event, and 
so was not covered  under  the policy
because Ageas did not have to pay the cash settlement that it was offering, she did not have to 
consider the value of the cash settlement,  but she did expect Ageas to honour its offer of the 
cash settlement
Ageas offer of £100 compensation,  together with its offer of the cash  settlement of £2,312.20 
minus applicable excess fees was sufficient
Ref: DRN18181988Ageas accepted the provisional decision. But Ms O did not. Ms O provided further information,  
including a statement from a Chartered Surveyor who had inspected the damage both in January and 
August 2018  and representations  from a family  member. In summary, Ms Os further information said:
the overflow pipe was in a visually inaccessible location
the overflow pipe had been replaced in January 2018
no further damage had occurred between January and August 2018
the delay between the notification of the claim  in January and submitting  the quote  in August 
2018 was explained by Mr H suffering two immediate family  bereavements  and being terminally 
ill himself
during this time Mr H was undergoing  debilitating  chemotherapy treatments and a series  of 
operations, and Ms O was his sole carer
Ageas use of the matching sets argument to apply to walls in the same room was creative
the policy does cover  claims for escape of water
the damage to the rooms was consistent with Mr H and Ms Os description  of events
Ageas had not provided any significant basis on which  to favour its surveyors opinion  over Mr H 
and Ms Os plumber
The matter has now been passed to me to consider.
My provisional findings
Ive considered the available evidence  and arguments provided so far to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently minded to uphold 
this complaint.
It is unusual for a different ombudsman to consider  a complaint after a provisional decision has been 
given. And I am conscious that I am doing so with the benefit of additional  and further information that 
has been provided in response to the first provisional decision.
Ageas initially declined the claim based on the report from their surveyor from September  2018 which 
said that the damage  had occurred over a period of time and would have been visible.  Later, in 
response to our investigators view, Ageas commented that the cause of the escape  of water was not 
an insured peril.
There does  not appear to be any disagreement that the damage to the bathroom and study was 
caused by an escape  of water. Having  looked at the terms  of the policy  I consider that escape of 
water is an insured peril.
Mr H says the cause of the damage  was a slight overflow occurring from the bathroom  cistern, but 
the plastic  upvc  overflow pipe had broken off flush with the wall... and that the overflow pipe 
appears  to have  degraded  through old age and UV radiation.. I also note that Ms Os 
submission says that the overflow pipe was visually inaccessible . From the evidence  I have seen I 
am not persuaded that Ageas is entitled to apply any valid exclusion to this claim, for example Ageas 
has not presented any evidence  that the overflow  pipe was incorrectly installed or that there had been 
a lack of maintenance.
Ref: DRN18181989Ageas says that the surveyors report from September 2018 shows that the damage had occurred  
gradually and would have  been visible.  The surveyors report says:
It appears the water has soaked into the wall and tracked  to other corners of the room,  this is unlikely 
to happen so quickly in a one off incident given  the nature of the leak, evidence shows that the 
damage has appeared at the top of the bathroom in other comers rather than the bottom
In the below room (Study) there is very dark staining overlapping indicating  that the water has 
continued to leak and dry repeatedly,  again paper has lifted and come off the wall also showing  a vast 
amount of age old staining and mould growth. The area this staining covers is very large and this 
would have been visible very quickly  to the customer. Given the area this has covered  again  this 
indicates this has been ongoing for a long period  spreading slowly.
Looking at the outside  of the property where  the over flow pipe is there is evidence of white salts 
staining in a downward v on the brick.
In his complaint  Mr H pointed out that the surveyor visited the property 8 months after the damage 
happened and the state of the walls  was worse by then due to the process of drying  out. He thought  
Ageas was relying too heavily  on a survey  conducted 8 months after the event, when  he had already 
presented a report from a plumber in early February 2018.
The plumbers report  says that the damaged had occurred over a period of a few weeks and this 
appears to concur  with what Mr H and Ms O said about noticing  the damage for the first time in 
January 2018. The plumber said:
Having inspected the bathroom cistern, there is a build-up of heavy scale on the valve mechanism 
which may have caused  the cistern to overflow  slightly. This should not have  been a problem,  but the 
overflow pipe allowed the water to the soak the brickwork, rather than drip clear.
The extent of the damage to the wall shows that this probably occurred  over a period of several  
weeks, before the damp was noticed.
This services usual approach is that it would be unfair for an insurer to rely on a gradual damage 
exclusion if the consumer couldnt reasonably  have  known the escape of water was happening  and if 
they did something about  it as soon as they could.
So in considering this complaint I think there are two questions I need to ask, firstly, could Mr H and 
Ms O have known that the escape of water was happening and once they knew did they do 
something about it?
Mr H and Ms O have said that the damage was occurring without  their knowledge. For example their 
evidence says the overflow pipe was in a visually  inaccessible location, the leak was very slow and 
the water was being absorbed into the wall and not reaching the ground. They also say that the mould 
growth was directly on the plaster  surface  and underneath the painted  lining paper  and was only 
evident where the damaged lining paper  has been stripped away or had lifted.
Mr H and Ms O have explained the wallpaper lifting from the wall was due to the 8 months period after 
the leak had been stopped and the room having had time to dry out. They  said the staining  is due to 
pre-existing staining in the room  (yellowing from long term high levels of heavy smoking which  
occurred when it had previously been used as an office) which they say was impacted  by the leak.
Mr H and Ms O said that when they did become  aware  of the leak they acted quickly to stop the leak, 
for example  they replaced  the overflow pipe, repaired the faulty valve  mechanism in the cistern and 
notified Ageas of the claim. There doesnt appear to be any dispute about  the actions  taken by Mr H 
and Ms O or the speed of those actions.
Ref: DRN181819810I agree with Mr H and Ms O that greater weight should  be placed  on the evidence from around the 
time the incident took place, including  the plumbers report from February 2018, rather than the 
surveyors report from September 2018, some 8 months later. And I consider that the damage that the 
surveyor identifies is not inconsistent  with Mr H and Ms Os description of events.
Overall and on balance, I consider that the damage caused  to Mr H and Ms Os bathroom and study by 
the escape of water should  be covered  by their insurance policy with Ageas.  I am persuaded that Mr H 
and Ms O most likely  were  not aware of the leak and when  they did become aware of it they acted 
quickly. And following  the usual approach this service applies  to gradual damage exclusions  I dont 
think it is reasonable  for Ageas to decline  this claim, and my decision is that the claim should  be met.
I must then turn to what is a fair and reasonable settlement of the claim.
I dont think Ageas offer of cash settlement  of £2,312.20 minus applicable excess fees is fair. Ageas 
has argued that only one wall in each of the rooms should be included in the settlement, it appears to 
be saying that as the policy does not include matching sets it does not need  to cover the costs of 
repairing damage  to the other walls.  Ms Os submission refers to this as a creative approach.
Irrespective of whether it is appropriate to apply matching sets to walls, I have no doubt that Ageas  is 
not acting fairly in this case. Having looked carefully at the evidence  I can see that a number of 
sources refer to damage to more  than one wall in each room, for example Ageas own surveyors 
report refers  to water having tracked to other corners of the room .
Mr Hs original complaint describes in detail  the extent of the damage to the other walls. And the 
quote supplied by Mr H shows that repairs are required to other walls.
I can see that our original  investigators initial view set out how Ageas should settle this claim  and I 
broadly agree with that proposed approach.
The repairs were carried out by a local builder in November 2018 and our investigator obtained a 
breakdown of the cost of those repairs which has already been submitted to Ageas.  In summary, the 
costs are;
Office works: Labour £1,125.00 Materials £225.00 VAT £270.00
Bathroom works: Labour £6,250.00 Materials  £880.00 VAT £1,426.00
This totals £10,176,  however it appears to include  costs for some items that were not related to the 
insured damage  and our investigator has now sought  further  clarification  of these  costs.  Ms O 
confirmed that the following  costs, which have also been shared with Ageas, were not related  to the 
insured damage:
Supply & fit electric  UFH with LCD programmable thermostat: £750 
Create niche in shower with LED light: £420
Shower pump: £390
Tray base  (frame required  to support tray): £480
Studwork: £450
These uninsured  costs total £2,490, and I think it is fair that they should  be deducted from earlier 
breakdown of the total cost of the repairs  of £10,176. This leaves costs  of £7,686 which I think  Ageas 
should be required to meet.
From the invoice for the repairs it seems the balance  due was paid on 4/12/18.
Overall and on balance, for the reasons I have given, I consider that it is fair and reasonable to require 
Ageas to pay a cash settlement of £7,686 plus interest* from the 4/12/18  until settlement  is made.
Ref: DRN181819811I also need  to consider Ageas offer to pay £100 compensation  to Ms O. Ms O says that this is not 
enough. Taking into account  Ageas  handling  of this claim and its decision  to decline this claim  I 
consider that Ageas should be required to pay Ms O £200.00 compensation for the trouble  and upset 
this has caused.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that Ageas Insurance Limited must:
Pay Ms O the cash settlement amount of £7,686 (minus applicable  excess  fees) plus interest* 
from the 4/12/18 until settlement is made.
Pay Ms O £200 compensation (minus  any compensation  already paid). Ageas  Insurance Limited 
must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms O accepts my final 
decision.
Garry Hunter
Ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Ageas Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Ms O it should 
tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Ms O a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1818198