K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited, following a successful claim on his 
motor insurance policy,  didnt repair a wheel on his car to a satisfactory  standard.  
background
I set out the background  of this complaint and my thoughts in an email which I shared with 
Mr T and Admiral.  I said my understanding of the complaint was that:
-In 2016 Mr T made a claim on his Admiral motor  insurance policy  following  an 
accident. The claim was accepted  and repairs were completed,  although these 
seemed to have  been of poor quality as follow-up repairs were  needed.  As part of the 
overall repairs one of the wheels needed some work.
-In 2018 Mr T was having  some issues with the car swerving so he took it into a 
garage. To rule out the wheels being  the cause  they swapped them around.  It was at 
this point, following  a comment from the engineer, that Mr T said he realised the 
wheel hadnt been repaired to a satisfactory standard in 2016. He raised this with 
Admiral as he wanted it to pay to get the wheel repaired or replaced.
-Admiral didnt agree to pay for the wheel to be repaired - which  Id been told would 
cost between £60 and £80. It had said the wheel in question wasnt the one it had 
repaired (which Mr T refuted with a credible explanation and an email from the 2018 
garage). It later said he shouldve noticed  it sooner  (I wasnt  sure what  the relevance 
of this was).
I said that I thought  it was most likely the wheel  hadnt been  repaired to a satisfactory 
standard in 2016, so I thought Admiral should  pay Mr T £80 so he could have the wheel 
repaired. I accepted that more information,  such as an independent  report  on the repair work 
on the wheel,  would  be helpful. But I thought that given  the value of repair  (£60-£80) this 
was disproportionate  and likely unnecessary.  
I also thought  Mr T had been  caused some distress  and inconvenience as this matter had 
been ongoing for some time and his arguments  werent properly considered during  the life of 
the claim.  Hed already been offered £25 for delays in responding to him, but I considered 
£75 compensation,  in total, to be a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience hed 
been caused. So I said I thought Admiral should pay him £75.
Mr T had said hed received a cheque for £50 from Admiral. He wasnt sure what this related 
to, and neither  was I. But as I considered £75 compensation to be a fair amount  in the 
overall circumstances  of this complaint, I thought Admiral should  be able to take this into 
account when  settling this complaint, if it related to this complaint.  
Mr T accepted the content of my email. Admiral, despite several prompts, didnt  respond.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and in the absence  of 
disagreement from Mr T and a response  from Admiral, I see no reason to change  my mind. 
Ref: DRN15796262my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to pay Mr T:
-£80 so he can get the wheel in question repaired; and 
-£75 compensation  in total. It can deduct  from this figure the £25 already paid for the 
delays responding to Mr T, and the £50 paid to Mr T, if that £50 relates to this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1579626