K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post.
Mr B has told us he was at the time employed  as a warehouse manager and had been there 
for three years. He has told us he was entitled  to full sick pay and that hed get less than 
three months pay if he were off work  due to sickness or accident  or were made redundant 
and he didnt have  any other means of repaying  his credit card should he be unable to work.  
Mr B has told us elsewhere of past health issues, of which the most recent was a broken 
bone treated more  than seven years earlier for which he didnt  take time off work. But in 
what hes told us for this complaint, Mr B has said he was in good health at the time of sale.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment, and also had life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. Barclays has told us it cost 75p at the time per £100 
of the monthly  outstanding balance. The premium would continue  to have to be paid during a 
successful claim  and it did attract interest.  The policy offered to repay 10% of Mr Bs credit 
card balance in the event  of a successful disability or unemployment claim. The life cover  
would, subject to its terms, clear the card balance on death.
Barclays has sent us a 2004 statement to show the credit card account had closed by then.
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. 
In summary,  Mr Bs representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mr B about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr B and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
Ref: DRN10608452The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
provide their responses  to the adjudicators  opinion. Mr B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was concluded by 2004.  That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgement in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgement, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Barclays, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN10608453The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Bs case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme  the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
Ref: DRN10608454damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mr Bs credit card application had 
a separate section with a box for him to tick if he wanted the PPI. The box is ticked,  Mr B 
signed the form and there  isnt anything on the form to suggest that he had to tick the box. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr B knew the policy  was optional and 
he agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays says it didnt  provide advice during this sale.  Mr B disagrees. Bearing in mind  the 
sale was made by post and taking into account  the absence of anything from the time to 
show that advice  was given or a personal recommendation made, I think most  likely 
Barclays didnt provide advice.
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr B. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr B to make an informed  
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions.
the information
Barclays has provided us with Mr Bs application  form and credit  agreement  showing that 
PPI had been selected. Barclays  says Mr B wouldve been provided with a policy  leaflet too, 
but it no longer  has a copy  of this  so I cant say what this wouldve told Mr B. Barclays  has 
also referred us to a summary of cover  in a policy certificate which I accept - on a balance  of 
probabilities - applied  to policies like Mr Bs.
Looking at Mr Bs application  form and credit  agreement - and the information  it gave Mr B at 
the time  I dont  think Barclays gave Mr B the information he fairly  and reasonably needed 
to make an informed decision about  whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. Mr Bs credit agreement form told him the PPI was cover in 
case of unemployment,  accident, sickness and death. It also referred to a monthly premium.  
So I think the information provided  would  have given Mr B a broad sense of what  the policy  
covered. And I think its unlikely Mr B wouldve thought it was free.
But it was Barclayss responsibility  to draw to Mr Bs attention  the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision.
Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr B, including the need to maintain premiums during a claim  
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Barclays  adequately 
Ref: DRN10608455drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions.
So I dont  think Barclays gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Barclayss shortcomings  have on Mr B? To what extent  did Mr B suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr B. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr B suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr B would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done  things properly. 
Mr B says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr B had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr B chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
Ref: DRN10608456this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr B thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr B has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr B ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But I 
accept that Barclays  didnt make clear  the on-going cost information.  So while Mr B didnt  
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims that were the result  of any conditions  that, at the policy  
start date, Mr B already knew about  or had received doctors advice  or treatment for 
in the previous twelve months;
The policy limited and in some situations  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do his normal job or any paid work his experience,  education  or training reasonably  
qualified him to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr B pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. 
I say this taking into account  that the policy wouldnt have provided  cover had Mr B needed  
time off work because  of a health condition he knew about before the start date, and Mr B 
has told us elsewhere  of health  issues he or his partner had in the past.  But Mr B has told us 
he didnt have any health problems at the time of the sale for this complaint.  Also the past 
health issue hes mentioned elsewhere that was closest  in time to this sale, didnt  affect his 
ability to work at that time.  Also the earliest health  issue he mentioned elsewhere occurred a 
very long time before this sale. With all this in mind, I dont think Mr B had health problems at 
the time of the sale and I dont think better information about this exclusion wouldve  put him 
off agreeing to the policy. And I havent  seen any evidence to suggest he wouldve  been 
caught by any of the other significant exclusions.  So I still think Mr B had some  good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt specifically exclude back or mental  health conditions in particular, or place 
any additional restrictions or more onerous  evidential requirements in the event of a claim on 
those grounds than would have applied  to any other  disability claim. And I think  its unlikely 
Mr B would have expected to make a disability  claim on the policy without first providing 
some evidence to support  that claim.
Ref: DRN10608457If Mr B had known he could only claim for disability if the sickness  or injury he suffered not 
only stopped him doing his normal job but also stopped him doing any paid work that, in the 
insurers view, his experience, education  or training reasonably qualified him to do, it might  
have played into his thinking  about  what to do  and I accept it may have given him pause  
for thought. But given  his circumstances, and in particular what  hes told us about his work 
benefits and his lack of other means,  on balance I think he wouldve still been interested in 
taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr B would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, taking into account  what hes told us about his employment benefits and about  
not having any other means of making his credit  card payments. And in those circumstances 
I consider it more likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances. That guidance is for firms, 
but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along with many other things when  I 
decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering the purpose of the guidance, I 
dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Mr B compensation, as that would put him 
in a better position  than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should  have  
done. 
Ref: DRN10608458Im also aware that Mr B thinks Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclayss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mr B, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Barclays negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr B and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr B in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1060845