K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly refused to pay his claim under his 
pet policy.
background
Mr M took his policy for his dog in March 2017.  His dog was born on 5 October 2016 
according to the vet history and his ear problems started when he was first seen at the vets 
on 30 December 2016. 
Mr M brought his dog to the vets for his ears on 4 February 2017, 5 May 2017 and 2 July 
2017, before  he developed skin issues along with the ear problems on 2 January 2018.  Mr M 
then made  a claim to Allianz on 14 September 2018  for the treatment costs of the skin 
allergy.
Allianz investigated the claim by requesting the vet history. It saw that Mr Ms dog had visited 
the vet before the policy started but that Mr M didnt disclose this on his application. So it 
then underwrote the issue. It said its underwriting manual said it would exclude any claims to 
do with the dogs ears and skin from the date the policy started. This meant it wouldnt pay 
Mr Ms claim. 
Mr M complained but Allianz wouldnt change its stance. So Mr M brought  his complaint to 
us. The investigator  was of the view that Allianz hadnt done  anything wrong. Mr M didnt 
agree so his complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Its not in dispute  that Mr M didnt answer the questions Allianz asked on the online 
application form fully. I understand Mr M said his vet told him that the ear condition  was 
trivial but actually, what the vet thinks isnt that relevant given the questions Mr M was 
asked. 
Allianz asked two questions which are as follows:
1.Has [name of dog] shown any signs of illness or injury or been unwell either 
now or in the past?
2.Has [name of dog] been seen by a vet for any reason?
Mr M answered no to these questions. So when Allianz discovered after reading the vet 
history the answers  to his questions werent  correct, its policy terms then permit  it to 
underwrite the issue as if Mr M had disclosed the correct information from the start. And then 
change the basis  of the cover accordingly,  if required. This is what Allianz did here after 
receiving Mr Ms claim. Thats standard industry practice across the pet insurance industry 
and so I dont  find it unusual.
When Allianz looked at it its underwriting guide,  it detailed that both ear and skin problems 
should be excluded  given the age of the dog at the time the policy  was taken out. 
Ref: DRN18239762As Allianz  has shown  us that this is detailed  in its underwriting writing guide  that means it 
would underwrite any other policyholder  in the same  circumstances the same,  as it 
underwrote Mr M. I consider this fair. 
This is because insurers  are entitled  to decide  what they want to insure and what they dont, 
on an individual basis, as thats a matter for their individual commercial judgement. I have no 
remit to interfere with that on the basis that its clear  that Mr M wasnt singled out and treated 
unfairly.
Its irrelevant that the conditions  arent linked or that Allianz hasnt produced any evidence to 
show they are linked. This is because its for Allianz to make  its own decision on what  it 
wants to cover and how, and what it doesnt  want to cover, not Mr M or his vet. Thats  the 
reason it asks questions  on the application form. As then, its in a position to give consumers 
like Mr M, the choice  of whether he wants to accept the cover it has decided  on his 
circumstances to offer to him.
As the investigator  explained had Mr M answered  all the questions  asked on the application 
form fully at the time of his application form, Allianz would have still excluded claims for ears 
and skin given  the vet history of his dog. However then Mr M would have given himself this 
choice as to whether or not he wanted  to continue  with the policy at that stage. Rather  than 
finding out later, as he did here, that such claims wouldnt be covered  given  the pre-existing 
vet history of his dog.
The exclusions are reviewable after 24 months, which  I also consider fair and reasonable.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1823976