K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says she was mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy by Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS).
background
Mrs M took out a mortgage with BOS in 2002. At the same time she took out a regular 
premium MPPI policy to cover  her repayments  if she was unable  to work due to accident  or 
sickness or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  she didnt think there
was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented  as optional and thought
that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mrs M. 
Mrs M disagrees.  She says she was pressured into taking a policy  that wasnt properly 
explained to her and that she didnt need it.  
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.
The sale took place  over 15 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOS needed to make it clear to Mrs M that she had a choice in taking the policy.  Mrs M says 
this wasnt done  but she hasnt provided  any real specific details about the sale which is 
understandable considering the amount  of time that has passed. And BOS havent  given us 
any of the documents from the time of the sale. So I dont know  exactly  what was discussed 
about MPPI  or how it was presented.
But from what I know about BOSs  sales documentation and processes at the time, I think 
its likely  that it wouldve made Mrs M aware that MPPI was optional and that Mrs M had 
MPPI because she freely  chose to take it rather than anything else. 
Ive not seen enough to say that she wasnt  given  a choice or that she didnt agree to
buy it.
I can see from BOSs  internal records that the policy was sold during a meeting at a branch. 
So to put Mrs M in the best possible position  Im treating the sale as if BOS advised her to 
take the policy. What  this means is that BOS not only had to provide information about  MPPI 
in a clear,  fair and not misleading way so that Mrs M could make an informed choice about 
buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend MPPI  that the policy  was 
suitable for Mrs Ms needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN15358682I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable
recommendation for Mrs M for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
Mrs M says that she was entitled  to a good  level of sick pay and her parents wouldve 
helped make her repayments  if she couldnt work. But there is no guarantee her 
parents could help and the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and for 
potentially longer, covering her for up to 24 months if she were unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or if she lost her job.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mrs M in her circumstances 
especially considering  she was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think  
Mrs M wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
And I think it is worth noting that Mrs M did make a number of successful claims on 
the policy where the benefit paid to her was not insignificant - showing the policy  has 
in fact been of use to her.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs M at the time. 
And if she decided she no longer wanted the policy  she couldve cancelled it.
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Mrs M information in a way which was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so that she could make  a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy  out. 
I dont know if BOS  did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same  reasons  that 
the policy was suitable and based on what Mrs M has told us about her circumstances at the 
time, I think she wouldve  still taken out the MPPI  policy  if shed been given all the proper 
information.
So this means  Mrs M isnt worse off as a result  of any wrong doing by BOS.
my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1535868