K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision. 
Mr R says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store account in 1996.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100  Mr R owed on his store  card. The policy 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mr R couldnt  
work because he had an accident, was unwell or lost his job. The policy also provided life 
cover as well as purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.  I know this will be disappointing for Mr R and Ill 
explain my reasons why Ive reached this conclusion.
FICL had to make it clear  to Mr R that the policy was optional  and get his consent before PPI 
could be applied to the account. Ive been  given a copy of the application form completed at 
the time of the sale and I can see that there is a section for PPI. In this section  there is a box 
to tick if you want  to take out the cover. On Mr Rs form the box has been ticked. If Mr R 
didnt want to take out the cover  he could have left the box blank. And Mr R has signed the 
overall application form - as he was making  an application for additional credit,  I think he 
would have read through the form before  signing  it to make sure he agreed  with everything 
that had been entered.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think its more  likely  FICL  made it clear  the policy was optional  
and Mr R chose to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he didnt want it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied, I dont  think FICL recommended  the policy  to Mr R. 
So it didnt have  to check if the policy was right for him. But FICL  did need to make  sure it 
gave Mr R clear  enough information  about the policy to enable  him to decide for himself  if he 
should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL  gave  Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. But even if FICL had given him better  or clearer information, I dont think it would have 
made a difference. I still think he would  have taken out the policy. I say this because  Mr R 
was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
Ref: DRN12180842such as having  unusual working  arrangements or a medical condition  of which  he was 
already aware.
And I think the PPI could  have provided  a useful benefit to him. The policy  would pay out 
15% of his outstanding balance each  month  until he returned to work or the balance was 
cleared  whichever  came  first. This would be in addition to, and potentially  for longer than, 
any statutory sick pay that he says he would have received. And it would also provide 
cover for the same length of time if he was to lose his job. As Mr R has told us he didnt 
have any other means with which to meet his repayments if he wasnt  earning, I think this 
could have provided him with reassurance that his card repayments  would be met if 
something went wrong.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  the PPI policy was mis-
sold to Mr R. 
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1218084