K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank plc didnt provide him with five years of statements  
when he closed his personal credit  card account.
background
This decision refers only to Mr C not receiving  the statements from his closed personal credit 
card account. Other  complaints raised by Mr C are being  dealt  with separately.
Following the closure of his personal  credit  card account, Mr C asked HSBC for five years of 
statements from the account. Mr C says that HSBC  didnt do this. Subsequently, he 
complained to HSBC,  but his complaint was rejected. In its response,  HSBC says that Mr C 
didnt provide enough information to allow it to identify his account. Mr C was unhappy with 
this and complained to us. He wanted statements  covering  five years sent to him as PDF 
files as well as compensation. Our investigator  didnt uphold the complaint. However,  she 
was able to get the statements Mr C wanted as PDF files and forward  them to him. 
Notwithstanding this, Mr C asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint seeking 
compensation for the time and cost in pursuing the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C closed his personal credit card account in April 2019. Shortly  after, he contacted HSBC 
asking for five years of statements  from the account. Although he wanted  statements from a 
personal credit card account, Mr C used  a business  channel to get in touch with HSBC.  Its 
worth mentioning here that Mr Cs business  is a distinct legal identity from Mr C himself. As a 
result, the business profile and his personal profile  will be maintained  separately  by HSBC. 
Because Mr C contacted  HSBC via a business channel,  HSBC  looked on its business 
systems for information  about his personal  account.  So its not surprising that the details 
couldnt be found; HSBC was looking in the wrong  place.
HSBCs efforts to find the correct account were made more difficult as, when asked for his 
credit card number (to help identify the account),  Mr C only gave the final four digits.  Its 
possible that, had he given the full 16-digit  number,  HSBC  would  have realised that Mr C 
wanted statements  for his personal account  and not his business  account. I think its 
reasonable for HSBC to assume  that by using the business channel, Mr C wanted 
information about his business account.
Part of Mr Cs complaint is that HSBC would only send him statements as paper  copies,  
whereas Mr C wanted the statements  electronically, as PDF files. Our investigator was able 
to get the statements from HSBC in this format and forwarded  them  to Mr C. So Mr C now 
has the statements  he wanted, in the format he wanted. I consider this part of the complaint 
has been dealt  with. 
Ref: DRN19326102Given Mr Cs strong  feelings on this matter, Ive looked at HSBCs  approach of providing  
statements in paper form. Mr C contends  that HSBC is legally obliged to provide five years 
of statements and it hasnt done  so. But the requirement to provide five years of transaction  
history only applies to current accounts, not credit  card accounts.  For current  accounts, the 
rules for providing transaction history are contained  in the Retail  Banking  Market 
Investigation Order  2017.
Article 20 of the Order  covers transaction history when an account is closed. It states that 
the Provider  HSBC  in this case  can choose whether  to provide the Payment Transaction 
History in either paper or electronic form. HSBCs policy is to provide  this transaction  history  
in paper form when  an account is closed. This is not uncommon; Ive seen  that Barclays,  
Royal Bank of Scotland and Yorkshire  Bank  also provide it in paper form. Whilst I accept that 
what Ive mentioned here is for current accounts, I think  its likely that a similar approach  
would be taken to credit card accounts.
There may also be occasions when statements have to be provided in a different format; in 
Braille for example.  But I cant see that Mr C has a specific need that can only be met by 
providing the statements in PDF format. 
Ive read through the transcript of the business channel  discussion between Mr C and 
HSBC. Once it became  clear that Mr Cs account had been closed, HSBC  confirmed  that the 
statements couldnt be accessed online but could be sent by post. Here, I can understand 
Mr Cs frustration. Prior to closing his personal  credit card account, hed been  able to access  
the statements  in PDF format. Its difficult to see why the statements cant be made available  
in the same format  once  the account  is closed. Its possible  HSBC could have done more to 
meet Mr Cs wishes.
Mr C has asked for compensation for the time and effort spent on this complaint.  In deciding 
whether to award compensation, I have to consider if HSBC  has done  something wrong and 
how far Mr Cs actions  have helped to resolve  the issue. 
When Mr C used the business channel to ask for statements  from the previous five years,  I 
think its reasonable for HSBC to assume Mr C wanted information about  his business 
account, not his personal credit card account.  HSBCs efforts  to resolve  the query were 
made more  difficult by Mr C giving incomplete  details  of his credit  card number. Whilst I think 
that HSBC could have done more to let Mr C have the statements as PDF files, I think its 
reasonable for HSBC to provide the statements  as paper copies. This is the same service  as 
would be offered to its current  account  customers.
I accept that Mr C has spent much time and effort on this complaint.  But I dont think  HSBC  
has done anything  wrong and dont  award  compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020
Ref: DRN19326103Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1932610