K822xcomplaint
Ms B has complained that UK Insurance Limited hasnt fairly settled her claim for damage 
caused by an escape of water at her property
background
I issued a provisional decision in June 2020 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
Ms B suffered an escape of water in her kitchen when the cold-water pipe feed to her 
sink burst.  
Ms B says the escape of water caused  damage  in her kitchen, including to her units, 
washing machine,  fridge  freezer, table, rug and floor. She also says it damaged  the 
flooring and walls in the hallway, stairs  and landing area.
UKI has concerns  about the validity of the items being claimed for. It says Ms B has 
made three previous claims since 2015 which,  between them, have included most of 
the same  areas being claimed for. It says it paid a cash settlement on an escape of 
water claim in 2015 which covered new kitchen units, flooring and a washing 
machine. And that it paid a cash settlement to cover new carpets  in the hallway area 
as part of an escape of water claim in 2016.
UKI says that before Ms B made the new escape  of water claim in May 2018, it had 
been investigating a claim Ms B made for storm damage.  It says Ms B had included 
the damage to her kitchen as part of that claim and that she only made the new 
escape of water claim once it had declined the storm claim. 
UKI sent out a loss adjuster to review  the 2018 escape of water claim. It also 
reviewed the previous  report taken from the storm claim and reports from two 
previous escape  of water claims in 2015  and 2016. UKI is concerned that Ms B 
hasnt carried out all the repairs/bought all replacement items following the cash  
settlements it paid on earlier claims. It believes Ms B was now seeking to claim for 
the same  items again. 
When UKI inspected the property for the storm claim in 2018, its loss adjuster took 
moisture readings around the property, including in the kitchen and hallway and 
landing areas.  It said the kitchen floor readings indicate the floor had been saturated, 
but the readings in other areas of the house didnt  indicate any water damage.
Ref: DRN15281072At the time of the inspection, Ms B had already taken up, and disposed of, the 
flooring and carpet in the kitchen and hallway and landing areas.  She had also 
stripped back wallpaper. UKI says this prejudiced  its position  as it wasnt  able to 
inspect the alleged damage  to these areas. It says the same  thing happened during 
the 2016 escape of water  claim, and it gave Ms B the benefit of the doubt. But based 
on this it said Ms B knew any damaged items should  have been  retained.  UKI also 
had concerns that Ms B was claiming for the exact  same brand of washing machine 
she claimed for in 2016 and that the food she was claiming for had been bought after 
the apparent breakdown of the fridge-freezer.
Ms B provided UKI with an invoice  from her builder to show that she did have the 
works carried out after she received the cash settlement in 2016.  She also provided 
reports on her fridge freezer and washing machine to show that they were beyond  
economical repair. UKI also asked for supporting evidence  to show  how the builder 
was paid. Ms B provided bank statements to show she withdrew a large amount of 
money around nine months before the incident.  She says the money was for another  
purpose, but she didnt use it then, so it was available to pay her builder following 
receipt of the cash settlement in 2016.
Based on the available reports, site visits and evidence, UKI agreed  to cover the 
damage to Ms Bs kitchen floor, washing machine and fridge-freezer. But it didnt 
agree to cover the units, walls, table, rug, food or any of the damage  to the hallway, 
stairs and landing area.
Ms B wasnt happy with this, so she brought her complaint to our service where it 
was looked at by one of our investigators. She didnt think  UKI had handled  Ms Bs 
claim fairly. She agreed that there wasnt enough evidence that the hallway, stairs 
and landing  area were  damaged by the escape  of water. But she thought the kitchen 
walls, skirting and units most likely were. She also thought  that as UKI had previously  
agreed to pay Ms B £100 for her lost food that it should honour that promise.
UKI responded to our investigators assessment. It said kitchen units  she found had 
been damaged  by the escape of water were the exact same units  in situ during the 
2016 claim  which  it had already paid a cash settlement to fix. It said Ms B hadnt 
had these replaced and was seeking  to claim for the same damage again.  It provided 
photos from 2016 and 2018  to support its position.
Neither UKI nor Ms B accepted our investigator's  opinion. So, because no agreement 
has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings 
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In coming to this provisional decision,  I havent  considered the level of service Ms B 
has received during  her claim. This is because that has already been considered by 
our service  under a separate complaint. 
Ms B has complained about  several issues. For ease of reference, Ill address these 
separately.
Ref: DRN15281073Hallway, stairs and landing
Ms B says the escape of water in the kitchen caused over six inches of water to flood  
into the hallway  and downstairs toilet. She said it got underneath the flooring and 
skirting and caused damage  to the wallpaper.
UKI says the moisture readings taken in the hallway area showed a reading  of 
around 14% saturation. It says this way below the levels it would expect  to see if the 
area had been  flooded  in the way described by Ms B. It says this is supported by the 
fact the kitchen floor had a reading of around  99% saturation.
UKI also says Ms B has prejudiced its position  by removing and disposing of the 
carpets and wallpaper.  It has pointed  to the terms of Ms Bs policy which  state:
For any claim  you must:
 Give us any relevant  information and evidence that we ask for, including  
proof of ownership or value of the lost or damaged item and written estimates 
for repair. You will have to do this at your own expense.
 Allow us (or our appointed suppliers) to access or inspect the damaged 
items and/or property.

If you dont follow our claim conditions, and this negatively affects our 
position:
 we will reject your claim or be unable to deal with it, or
 we will not pay your claim in full.
Ms B says she called UKI on the day of the escape of water, and was advised  to strip 
her carpets and wallpaper. She has provided  details of the person she spoke with.
Ive listened to the call Ms B has referred to. It actually relates to the storm claim, 
rather than the escape of water  which wasnt reported for a further two months. In 
the call, Ms B is discussing the damage to her kitchen floor and the advisor  does tell 
her she can remove it. But he asks that she take pictures of the damage and removal  
process, and that she retain some of the flooring so that it can be inspected  for 
validation purposes. The escape  of water, or damage to her hallway area were  not 
discussed during  this call.
UKI says it has never been provided  with photos of the hallway, stairs or landing  area 
being stripped.  It says Ms B did retain  a small  section of the carpet, but that this 
doesnt show signs of water damage consistent  with Ms Bs claim. It has also pointed 
out that the hallway flooring is covered  by some thermoplastic tiles and that it would 
expect to see some damage  or lifting to these had the hallway been flooded as Ms B 
alleges.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that UKIs 
decision not to cover the hallway, stairs  and landing area  including  the downstairs 
toilet  is unreasonable. I say this because the moisture  readings seem to suggest 
its unlikely the area was damaged by water,  and because  by disposing of the carpet 
and wallpaper,  Ms B hasnt kept to the terms of her policy. So, I think UKIs decision 
to decline this element  of Ms Bs claim is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN15281074Damage to the pipe
Ms B paid to have  the pipe which caused  the leak repaired and has provided the 
invoice for this work to UKI. UKI says the damage  to the pipe isnt covered by her 
policy. Our investigator agreed. She said the policy only covers  damage to burst 
pipes, under the trace and access cover. But she said Ms Bs pipe hadnt burst.
Ms B doesnt agree. She says the pipe did burst. She says this is evidenced  by the 
invoice from her builder and the fact he replaced a significant length  of the pipe 
rather than, for example,  reconnecting  a part that had disconnected or failed.
Looking at the various reports/invoices,  it seems the pipe did burst and that UKI 
doesnt dispute this. But UKI has argued  that the policy  doesnt  provide cover for 
burst pipes  other than under the trace  and access section. In this case, it says the 
pipe was in an easily identifiable and accessible location, so there was no need for 
trace and access  meaning there  is no cover  for the pipe.
In property insurance, trace and access cover is designed to provide cover for finding  
the source of a leak and putting right any damage caused in doing so. But this 
doesnt apply  a leak from an open pipe which can be clearly  observed. So, I think  
UKI is right to say that the trace  and access cover doesnt apply to Ms Bs claim.
Ms Bs policy doesnt cover the damage to her pipe,  except  under trace  and access. 
So, in the circumstances here,  I think  UKIs  decision not to cover the damage to the 
pipe is both in line with the policy conditions  and is fair and reasonable. 
Damage in the kitchen
UKI accepts  that there was an escape  of water. The moisture  readings from the 
kitchen floor showed around  99% saturation, so although the flooring had already 
been taken up  like the carpet in the hallway  it agreed to cover the kitchen floor.  It 
also agreed to cover  the damaged washing machine and fridge freezer as Ms B 
provided reports showing these were beyond economical repair.
UKI has paid Ms B a cash settlement for these items, less the policy  excess. Ms B 
isnt happy with the amount received. She says it isnt enough for her to have the 
goods and flooring replaced. 
Under the terms of Ms Bs policy, UKI can choose  whether  to settle  a claim by 
carrying out repairs through its suppliers,  paying  for repairs completed  by the 
policyholders supplier or by paying  a cash settlement. But where an insurer  insists 
on paying a cash  settlement,  rather than carrying out repairs  through  one of its 
suppliers, I would expect  the value of any cash settlement to be based on the amount 
it would  cost the policyholder to have the works  completed  as opposed to the 
preferential rates available to insurers.
Ref: DRN15281075From what  Ive seen, UKI calculated its cash settlement offer based  on a report 
completed by one of its agents in September 2018. The amounts it has offered seem  
to be based on the preferential rates. But I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Ms B was given the option  of having UKIs agent  carry out repairs and/or supply the 
goods. So, I dont  think the amount UKI has offered  is fair. I think  UKI should 
recalculate the settlement for these items  based  on the amount it will cost Ms B to 
have them repaired and/or replaced.
Ms B is also claiming for damage  to her kitchen  units and worktop.
UKI says the kitchen  units do show signs of water damage.  But it says these units  
are the same ones  Ms B had in situ during the 2016 claim. And it has provided  
photos from 2016 and 2018  to support its argument.
 
Ms B has supplied an invoice from her builder to show  that she had the kitchen units  
replaced in 2016.  She has also supplied her bank  statements to show that she 
withdrew a large  amount of cash  around nine months before this  which is the 
money she says she used to fund those repairs. I can also see that as part of its 
investigations, UKI spoke  with Ms Bs builder who confirmed  the invoices were 
genuine.
Ive carefully considered  the evidence both sides have provided in respect  of this 
issue. UKI has provided photos  showing that the doors on the kitchen units  are the 
same as those in place  during 2016. But from what Ive seen,  Ms Bs builders 
invoice, in 2016, only includes replacement of the carcases, not the doors.  So, I dont 
think photos of the kitchen  doors are particularly  persuasive evidence that Ms B 
didnt have the carcases replaced as she says.  
While I understand UKIs concerns about  this element of the claim, I dont think  its 
done enough to show that its more likely than not that Ms B didnt  replace  the units 
following the earlier claim. So, without more persuasive evidence, I dont think  UKI 
can fairly decline this element of Ms Bs complaint.
In terms of the worktop, I havent seen anything  to support that this has been 
damaged by the escape of water. I say this because none of the reports have made  
any comment or assessment on the condition of the worktop. And although Ms B has 
provided a photo  of the worktop,  I cant make out any damage to it. So, based on the 
evidence Ive seen,  I dont intend to uphold this element of Ms Bs complaint.
Ms B has also complained about damage to her kitchen table legs and a rug. 
UKI says the table  legs show some water marks, but no signs of mould or damage as 
alleged by Ms B. It says the photos from the report taken as part of the storm claim 
show the rug in direct contact with the saturated  concrete floor.  It also says that 
during the 2016 claim the same rug was in the living room.
Ref: DRN15281076Ive thought about UKIs arguments  and concerns about this element of the claim.  It 
does seem that Ms B has placed  the rug directly  onto the stripped back  kitchen floor 
following the escape of water. But I dont think that necessarily means that the rug, or 
table, werent in the kitchen at the time of the escape of water.  Considering that the 
table is a kitchen  table, I think its more likely than not that it was in the kitchen when 
the escape of water  occurred. And I dont  think the fact that Ms B had the rug in the 
living room  in 2016 is enough  to suggest that it wasnt in the kitchen when the 2018 
escape of water occurred.
That said,  I accept that by placing the rug and table onto the concrete floor that Ms B 
hasnt mitigated the possibility of further  damage being caused to them.  But equally, I 
cant see that UKI ever advised her to remove them  from the kitchen, even after it 
became aware  of the moisture readings  of the kitchen  floor and the situation of these 
items. 
Because the rug has been  placed  onto the saturated concrete, and the table on the 
rug, it will now be difficult  to determine  which damage, if any, was caused by the 
escape of water and which has been caused  after the fact  by exposure to the 
saturated concrete floor. So, in the circumstances, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for UKI to cover 50% of the damage to these items.
Ms B has claimed for food lost due to the damage caused to her fridge-freezer.
UKI doesnt agree that it should cover the food Ms B has claimed for. It says her 
fridge-freezer was declared beyond economical  repair in March  2018, but it says the 
photos of the wasted  food she has provided  were  taken  in May 2018.
From what  Ive seen of the pictures  Ms B has provided, the expiry dates on some of 
the food are from too far after the fridge-freezer  was declared beyond economical  
repair to mean that those  items could have  been  in the fridge-freezer when the 
escape of water happened. So, as it seems  this food was purchased after the fridge-
freezer was damaged, I dont think its something UKI needs  to cover.
I said I was intending  to uphold Ms Bs complaint in part and to direct UKI to increase the 
cash settlement for the kitchen flooring, washing machine and fridge-freezer,  as well as 
settling Ms Bs claim  for damage  to the kitchen  carcases and paying 50% toward the 
damage to the table  and rug.
I asked both sides to provide  any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to consider 
before I reached a final decision.
UKI said it accepted  my provisional findings.  It provided retail figures for the kitchen flooring 
and fridge-freezer  based on reports from its independent experts. It also provided  a revised 
figure for the washing  machine based on online searches.
UKI also provided a figure for replacement of the kitchen  carcases  and agreed to cover 50% 
toward the table  and rug  following another inspection to determine the cost.
Ref: DRN15281077Ms B didnt accept my provisional decision. She wanted to know why I hadnt  recommended  
that UKI should  cover the cost of replacing her skirting board and wallpaper in the kitchen. 
She also said her kitchen flooring included two layers of underlay which  hadnt  been 
included in UKIs settlement. Ms B said UKI had told her to strip out her house, so its unfair  
that shes now being penalised for doing  so. She also said her policy  excess should only be 
£350, rather than the £550  quoted  by UKI.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also carefully  considered all the 
new comments and evidence sent in response  to my provisional decision. 
Where I have  reached a different finding to the one set out in my provisional  decision, I have 
already shared this with both sides and allowed  them the chance to comment  before moving  
forward with this final decision.
Kitchen flooring
Ms B states that the settlement  for the kitchen flooring doesnt include her two layers of 
underlay  rubber and chipboard. Having checked UKIs itemised breakdown I can confirm  
that a layer of underlay has been included.  But Ms B is right that a layer  of chipboard  hasnt 
been. 
UKI doesnt believe it should cover  this. It says the chipboard was never  highlighted to its 
agent during the visit where the repair works  were priced. UKI also remains of the belief that 
Ms B didnt replace her flooring when it settled  the 2016 claim. Based on this UKI feels  the 
offer it has made to replace the flooring is fair.
Ive seen photos taken during the removal  of Ms Bs flooring which show the chipboard was 
present at the time.  Ive also seen photos  taken by one of UKIs own surveyors  showing the 
chipboard stored with the removed flooring in the garden.
Ive thought carefully about UKIs arguments  about  whether the flooring  has previously been 
replaced. But ultimately, I dont think its fair for UKI to accept the claim for replacement of 
the flooring is valid, while  at the same time refusing to include one element based on 
concerns about  the validity of the whole claim.  As UKI has accepted  the flooring should be 
covered, I think it needs to cover the cost of replacing the flooring as it was. And based  on 
the photographs provided, Im satisfied that the chipboard should be included in any 
settlement calculated for replacement of the flooring.
The settlement  calculation should  be based on the retail cost of having  the flooring replaced  
in 2020, rather  than the figures previously calculated based on the 2018  report.
Ref: DRN15281078Kitchen dcor and hallway, stairs  and landing area
Ms B says she was told by UKI to strip out her kitchen and hallway areas.  She doesnt think  
its fair that this is now being held against her.
Ive listened to the calls between Ms B and UKI when the claim was made. I agree that Ms B 
was told she could  remove the kitchen flooring, providing she took photos and kept a piece 
for inspection  which she did. But there  was no discussion about any of the dcor,  or the 
hallway, stairs and landing area. And nor was Ms B told it was ok to dispose of items she 
wished to claim for.
Ultimately, I havent seen any evidence that these areas required stripping due to the escape 
of water.  So, I dont  think this element  of Ms Bs complaint should be upheld.
Kitchen appliances and food
UKI has based its cash settlement for Ms Bs fridge-freezer on the retail  cost of replacement  
 based on a report completed  by one of its agents. I think  this offer is fair and reasonable.
To reach a figure for Ms Bs washing machine,  UKI searched for second-hand models online 
and used these  as a basis for an estimate  of the first-hand cost.  I dont think  the amount it 
came to fairly reflects the cost of Ms Bs washing machine  were  it available  brand new. 
Based on my own online research, I think UKI should increase the cash  offer for Ms Bs 
washing machine  from £150 to £300. I say this because I found a website purporting to sell 
the same  model  washing machine for around  £335.  And because  similar, but slightly  less 
powerful, models  of the same  brand  of washing machine retail for between  £230 to £300.
Ive considered what Ms B has told us about her food wastage.  But as I pointed  out in my 
provisional decision, Ms B provided  a report stating her fridge-freezer was beyond  
economical repair in March 2018. The food she has provided pictures of was clearly bought 
after this date  based on the expiry dates. So, I dont think  UKI needs to cover this.
Kitchen carcasses
In my provisional decision I said UKI needed to include  Ms Bs damaged kitchen carcasses 
in its cash settlement. It has done  so, but it has based the amount on Ms Bs builders 
invoice from 2016.  I don think this amount is likely to reflect  the reasonable cost having the 
carcasses replaced again in 2020.
UKI has reiterated the reasoning behind  its concerns that the units  werent  previously 
replaced. It has provided photos of the units and pointed out the fact that the carcases 
beneath the doors appears to be the same in photos taken in 2015  and 2018.
Ive thought about its argument again. But in my view the photos  arent  nearly clear enough 
to be able to say with any confidence that the carcases are the same  ones in both photos. I 
agree the photos show that there are white carcases  in situ in both photos. But this doesnt 
persuade me that the original carcases werent  replaced in 2016 as Ms B, and her builders 
invoice, suggest  they were.  I find it more likely that they were replaced with carcases  of the 
same colour  which is why they look similar in the photos. So, I still think UKI needs to 
cover the cost of repairing  or replacing  the carcases  damaged by the escape  of water.
Ref: DRN15281079UKI says its agent isnt an expert  on kitchen carcases,  so wont be able to determine 
whether any units showing signs of water damage  can be repaired or if they require  
replacement. I appreciate this may be the case.  But if UKI wants to establish this, then I think 
its for it to appoint an expert who can do so. Alternatively, if UKI doesnt  wish to do this, it 
can use its current agent to assess which units show signs of water damage  and which, if 
any, do not and pay the retail cost of replacement for the damaged  carcases. 
If UKI remains  unhappy with both of these options, it can allow  Ms B to get two quotes for 
the replacement  of the damaged carcases  and pay the cost of the lowest  quote.
Kitchen table and rug
UKI has agreed with my provisional  findings.  It says its agent can complete a desktop 
valuation of the items if its provided with clear  photos of the damage,  as well as any product 
labels, where possible.  UKI says it will provide  Ms B with a link where she can upload the 
images. UKI also says doing it this way is likely to mean the claim can be resolved more 
quickly than if a physical  visit needed  to take place. I think  this seems  a fair and reasonable 
way to move  forward.
However, if for any reason UKI hasnt been able to obtain sufficient information to complete 
a remote valuation within four weeks of this decision, it should complete a physical site 
inspection to obtain the valuation information  instead.
Policy excess  
Ive checked with UKI and it has provided confirmation that Ms Bs correct excess  is £500, 
not £550. 
Ms B is right to say that her standard policy excess was £350. But her policy had a specific 
endorsement for damage caused by an escape  of water. This endorsement  nullifies the 
standard policy excess at the time of £350  and applies a £500 excess to all escape of water 
claims
Based on this, Im satisfied that its fair for UKI to deduct an excess of £500 from the claim 
settlement due to Ms B.
Ref: DRN152810710my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Bs 
complaint in part. 
UK Insurance Limited  must:
Increase the cash settlement for the kitchen  flooring to reflect  the retail cost of having 
it replaced in 2020. This settlement should  also include an amount  to cover a layer of 
chipboard underlay.
Pay the increased amount it has quoted for the fridge-freezer and £300 for the 
washing machine.
Assess Ms Bs claim for damage to her kitchen carcases and either calculate and 
pay the retail cost of repair or replacement or allow Ms B to obtain  two quotes for 
replacement and pay the lowest quote.
Assess Ms Bs claim for damage to her kitchen table and rug and pay 50% toward  
the retail cost of repair or replacement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1528107