K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that his pro rata refund  of his premium under his motorbike insurance 
was too low when  he cancelled his policy with Aviva  Insurance Limited.
Mr J is represented by his father, also Mr J. References to Aviva includes all its agents.
background
Mr J renewed  his policy in August 2017  through a broker for his motorbike, paying  £242.11  
in premium. He then sold his motorbike and cancelled his policy on 16 March 2018.  He 
received a refund of 10%,  which amounted to £24.11 and he thought that this was far too 
little.
So he complained. Aviva said this was in line with the policy terms, which  clearly  detailed the 
cancellation rates. Those cancellation rates said a refund  of 10% was due when then policy 
was cancelled after six to eight months.
Mr J disagreed and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator ultimately thought  Aviva  
hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr J disagreed so his complaint was passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr J said these cancellation rates were  buried  away in the policy and werent properly  
highlighted. I disagree. This is because on page three of the policy, it clearly says if you wish 
to cancel your policy outside  the initial 14 day cooling off period of the policy start date, the 
detailed rates were  on page 24 of the policy. On this page, the table of the cancellation rates  
is clearly laid out. The Statement of Fact also details this cancellation table.  And lastly the 
renewal notice that Mr J received when he renewed his policy in July 2017  also clearly  
details this cancellation table.
Therefore I consider  Mr J had ample  opportunity through  a variety of different  documents  to 
familiarise himself with these cancellation terms. 
As the adjudicator explained  in her views, despite  this cogent highlighting of these  
cancellation rates, which  are called short term rates, this service  looks to ensure these are 
reasonable. On the face of it these werent reasonable, given the risk of any claims should 
be spread evenly over the course  of the policy year.
As Mr J is aware, the adjudicator then asked Aviva for further information about this. It 
provided clear statistical evidence that for motorbike policies, this wasnt the case. The 
claims risk wasnt spread evenly over the policy year.  This is because more motorbike 
policies are sold in spring  and more claims therefore  happen over the summer and early  
autumn months.  This in turn is because many  motorbike  users tend to use their motorbikes 
in the spring and summer more than they do in the winter months. 
Ref: DRN17513802So Im satisfied this allows Aviva to have  these types of short-term cancellation rates,  as the 
risk of claims clearly isnt evenly  spread throughout the year.  So this mean here,  in Mr Js 
case, these cancellation rates arent unfair.  
Mr J says its also unfair that he cant see Avivas information about this. But I disagree. This 
is because Avivas information is commercially  sensitive and it uses  this information to price 
its policies to be competitive in the market place.  And therefore, its not appropriate its 
disclosed in the public  domain, as it could prejudice  Avivas business interests and those of 
its agents. And I consider that neither  fair nor reasonable.
In conclusion given  how these cancellation rates were appropriately highlighted in the policy,  
the Statement of Facts and the renewal notice, I consider Mr J had ample opportunity to 
query them at the time he initially took this policy out and indeed when he renewed it. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1751380