K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Standard Chartered Bank  (SCB), trading at the time as American Express  Bank  
Limited, mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a Personal Reserve 
Account. Mr P says the PPI cover  wasnt something  he was made aware of or agreed to. He 
also says he didnt  need any PPI.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer mainly to SCB.
background
The PPI insured Mr P against losing his job or being  unable  to work. 
Previously, one of my fellow ombudsmen issued a decision to say Mr Ps complaint was one 
we could look at; SCB had objected that it had been  made too late given the rules  we 
operate under. One of our adjudicators then assessed Mr Ps actual  mis-sale  complaint and 
said it shouldnt be upheld. Mr P disagreed  with this view and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint about the mis-sale.
I can see Mr P thinks that our adjudicator hasnt been impartial in issuing a view which 
doesnt support  his allegations. But we know this sale was around 1990,  some 30 years ago. 
SCB also said this type of product / account combination hasnt been sold for well over 20 
years either. Neither SCB, nor Mr P have any sale documents of any substance to show us.
In cases like this I need to think about what is more  likely to have happened. I therefore look 
at all the information we have, and also use my extensive experience  of PPI sales similar  to 
this.
Mr P may well be being honest and genuine in his recollections that the PPI was added 
without his consent. But I do have copies of his monthly statements which  show such a 
product was being charged for regularly. Given the PPI amounts Ive seen, I think Mr P 
would have wanted to ask about these charges, if they had indeed been added  without his 
knowledge. Ive seen no evidence that he did so and so I think  its more likely he had asked 
for the PPI to be added  in the first place. 
Mr Ps other point is that he didnt need the cover. I cant say for sure if the PPI policy  was 
specifically recommended to him during an advised sale. But lets say it was, because this 
puts an additional burden on SCB to have made sure it was suited to his financial 
circumstances.
I think it probably was suitable.  And I say this because he appears to have been eligible  for 
the cover  and not caught by any of the main exclusions  we tend to see in these policies. 
Looking at the price  of the PPI, I think it was affordable and broadly in accordance with 
Ref: DRN14918172similar PPI costs at the time.  Mr P told us he had some sickness protection already with his 
job and so he implied he didnt really need any PPI. 
Ive thought about this and understand his point,  but Im afraid this doesnt  necessarily  mean 
the PPI wasnt suitable  for him. In the event  of a successful claim, Mr P would have been 
able to have his outstanding balance reduced  for up to 12 months. This would have been in 
addition to any other protection he had in place at the time. So overall, I think the cover was 
suitable for Mr P and recommending it to him wouldnt have been  unreasonable.
SCB also had to provide  information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the point of 
sale. However, due to the time thats passed,  I cant confirm whether Mr P was told 
everything he should have been told and its certainly possible SCB could have  done  more. 
But that doesnt change how I view this complaint. For me to uphold this case, Id need  to 
think it was more likely that Mr P wasnt given an option or there were other serious flaws in 
the way the PPI was sold. I simply dont see that scenario in this case. I accept weve  got 
very little hard evidence,  but what Ive seen  makes me think its more  likely the policy wasnt  
mis-sold. The evidence  points to Mr P being  able to see PPI was being regularly charged on 
his account. I cant  say why he didnt challenge this, but an obvious conclusion is that it was 
something he wanted to have  at the time.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Standard Chartered Bank  does not have to pay the cost 
of the PPI to Mr P.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1491817