K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about  the service received from Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A., under their travel insurance  policy,  after they 
were advised to cut their holiday  short.
background
In August  2018  Mr and Mrs B were on holiday, aboard a cruise ship. Mrs B suffered an injury 
and received medical advice to cut the holiday short and return  home. Mapfre  was notified 
and it agreed with this course of action.
When Mr and Mrs B disembarked  the cruise ship, they received no assistance. They say 
Mr B had to arrange a taxi to take them to a hotel near the airport.  And after Mr and Mrs B 
booked themselves into the hotel, Mr B went to the airport to book their flights  home.
Mapfre has reimbursed Mr and Mrs B for the expenses  they incurred by having to cut their 
holiday short. Its also apologised for not doing more to help Mr and Mrs B. Its offered 
Mr and Mrs B £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.  
Mr and Mrs B say that doesnt  fairly  compensate them for the way in which  theyve been 
treated. So they brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  think Mapfre had to do anything more.  She said the offer of £300 was 
fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs B dont agree  so their complaint has been passed to me to 
consider everything  afresh and make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mapfre  need 
to do anything more.  
I want to assure Mr and Mrs B that I recognise how distressing  the whole experience 
mustve been for them. Not only was Mrs B suffering from a painful injury but they had to 
deal with the disappointment of their holiday being cut short and having to return  home early. 
I accept that their upset  and frustration wouldve been exacerbated by Mapfre not being  able 
to get hold of them  and not providing assistance after they disembarked  the ship.  
It looks like a representative of Mapfre did try to call Mr B twice.  Mapfres  representative was 
cut off the first time and couldnt get through the second time. However, it accepts that it 
couldve made further attempts to call Mr and Mrs B on either  of the phone numbers it had 
for them.
Mr B had to find a taxi and the details of a hotel to stay in before they flew home.  They say 
the taxi driver assisted  them  into the hotel. Mr B then went  to the airport  to book the flights  
home but I understand the hotel was a short distance from the airport. So this wouldnt have 
inconvenienced Mr B too much. Mr B was able to book flights  home  and he and Mrs B 
arrived home the following day. 
Ref: DRN17956122So taking everything into account Im satisfied that Mapfes offer of £300  fairly compensates 
Mr and Mrs B for the trouble and upset it caused  them.
my final decision
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. dont need  to do 
anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1795612