K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral)  declined  a 
home insurance claim they made  for storm damage.
background
Mr and Mrs H contacted  Admiral on 29 July 2018 to make a claim. They said the roof had 
been damaged  by a storm, as a result  of which internal damage had been caused due to 
rainwater ingress. Mr and Mrs H said they were first alerted to the damage  when  they 
noticed water dripping from the ceiling on 28 July 2018.
Mr and Mrs H arranged for a local roofer to look at the roof. The roofer re-fitted  several roof 
tiles which  had become dislodged.
Admiral appointed a surveyor  to attend Mr and Mrs Hs property and assess  the cause of the 
damage. The survey  was carried out on 31 July 2018. The surveyors  report  found that the 
roof was old and suffering from wear  and tear and that the internal damage had been 
ongoing for some time. As a result, Admiral declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs H werent  happy with the decision  and complained. Admiral issued a final 
response on 27 February 2019 rejecting  the complaint. It said the damage  was not 
considered to have  been  caused  by a one off storm event and was attributable to wear  and 
tear over a long period  of time.
Mr and Mrs H brought  their complaint to this service where it was looked at by an 
investigator. She didnt think that the complaint should be upheld because  she was satisfied  
that the weather conditions around the time of the claim didnt meet the storm conditions  of 
the policy. She also thought that the photos of the damage didnt appear consistent  with a 
one off event.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr and Mrs H that Ive thought very carefully  about  everything theyve said. 
But having  done so, Ive decided not to uphold  their complaint. Ill explain why in more detail.
When this service investigates storm complaints, there are three  main  issues  we consider. 
These are:
On the balance of evidence,  do we agree  that storm conditions occurred on or 
around the date the damage is said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed  for consistent with what we generally  see as storm damage?
Were storm  conditions the main  cause of the damage? It could be that other factors  
were involved  and that the damage might have  occurred without the storm
Unless the answer to all three of the above  questions is yes, its unlikely that the complaint 
will be upheld.
Ref: DRN18026832In terms of whether  a storm took place, Admirals  policy booklet defines a storm as a 
specific identified storm including strong winds in excess of 47 knots (54 mph)  that may 
include heavy rain, snow or sleet.
Admiral has provided information  about  the weather conditions on and around the time the 
damage occurred. This shows that during the week beginning 25 July 2018 the maximum 
wind gusts were 46 mph and rainfall was 24mm.
Ive checked these weather records to see whether they are accurate. I found maximum 
wind gusts of 50mph  and rainfall  of 24mm. This service  says wind gusts of 50mph are likely 
to be considered storm conditions. Based on this I think the weather around the time of Mr 
and Mrs Hs claim can be considered storm conditions.
Ive looked at whether the damage is consistent  with what we generally see as storm 
damage. Admiral  declined  Mr and Mrs Hs claim because it thought  the damage wasnt 
consistent with a one off event. Admirals surveyor said the roof was suffering from wear  and 
tear and that the damage internally had been ongoing.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy includes  an exception to home insurance cover for loss or damage 
caused by anything that happens gradually including  wear  and tear.
The surveyors report says that the roof was very old with heavy moss  growth evident and a 
gap where the lead soaker meets the flat roof. The surveyors opinion  was that any adverse 
weather had highlighted pre-existing maintenance issues and that any defect  is related  to 
wear and tear.
The policy says that the property must be maintained in good  condition and that damage 
caused by normal  weather,  wind and rain isnt covered.  Ive taken into account what Mr and 
Mrs H have said about there being  no ongoing  maintenance  issues and that the gap 
between the roof and the dormer is how the house was built.  Ive also taken into account  the 
fact that the rainfall and gusts of wind were quite high around the time of the claim.  However,  
on balance, I dont  think its likely that the damage was caused by a one off event.
Ive also considered the internal damage. Ive looked at the surveyors report  including  the 
photos. The pictures of the tiles show that the grouting has worn away  in several areas.  I 
would expect bathroom tiles to withstand water, so I think  its likely  that the grouting has 
worn away  gradually, rather than as the result of a one off event. Ive also looked at the 
picture of the damage to the carpet  and dcor  but again, I think  the surveyors opinion  that 
this damage occurred over a period  of time is reasonable.
If the damage had occurred gradually but hadnt been visible then Id expect Admiral to pay 
for this. However, based on what Ive seen in the photos, I think  Mr and Mrs H would have 
noticed  or ought to have  noticed   that the grouting was wearing away  and that the carpet  
and dcor  was suffering from the effects  of water.
It follows that I dont think Admirals decision to decline  the claim was unfair.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H disagree  with the surveyors  report and have questioned his 
credentials. Insurers are allowed to rely on an expert  surveyors report and I havent  seen  
anything to suggest that the surveyor isnt qualified to provide an opinion.
Ref: DRN18026833Taking everything into account,  I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to decline Mr 
and Mrs Hs claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1802683