K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Clydesdale Bank Plc is not keeping to its arrangement to help 
them reduce  their overdraft. They are also concerned about the amount of fees they have 
paid over the years and the service the bank has given them.
background
Mrs M brings this complaint on behalf  of her and her husband. They want Clydesdale  to 
refund all the fees theyve paid over the last seven years because  she believes that due to 
their personal circumstances their account shouldve been  one without any charges. In 
March 2019 she phoned Clydesdale to ask about  a different bank account without any 
charges and she was given  the wrong information.  She made an arrangement for their 
overdraft to be reduced by £75 a month  on the first of the month but that didnt happen. She 
says Clydesdale  was very slow in responding to her and when it did reply it sent her letters 
with the wrong  information. 
Clydesdale apologies  for the service itd given Mr and Mrs M and accepted  the letters itd 
sent were misleading.  It paid them £100 as compensation for the inconvenience  itd caused. 
But it said that although it initially told Mrs M it didnt have an account  without  any charges, it 
corrected this in the same  phone call and transferred her to another  department to discuss 
moving the account. But Mrs M decided not to do this and an arrangement was made to 
reduce their overdraft by £75 a month with effect  from 1 April 2019. Clydesdale  said itd kept 
to this arrangement  although the reduction would not necessarily happen  at the beginning of 
the business day.
Our investigator thought Clydesdale had dealt  with Mr and Mrs Ms complaint fairly. She was 
satisfied Clydesdale  was keeping to the arrangement of reducing their overdraft. She 
explained this wouldnt always be on the first of the month if that was a non business  day. 
She could  see Clydesdale wasnt disagreeing that it hadnt given her a good service on the 
phone and by sending her confusing letters. Itd offered them  £100  as compensation for the 
inconvenience itd caused and she thought that was fair and reasonable. 
She explained to Mrs M that due to this Services time limits she could only look at the bank 
charges over the last six years. Mrs M said she was happy with that. But when our 
investigator considered  those charges  she could  see Clydesdale  had applied them in line 
with its terms  and conditions so she didnt think it had done anything  wrong.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this and asked  for the investigators conclusion to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for very similar reasons.  Shes issued two detailed  
opinions on the issues raised by Mr and Mrs M and theres very little I can add. 
Ref: DRN11025642I can see from Clydesdales records, and from Mr and Mrs Ms bank statements, that on the 
1 April, 1 May, 3 June and 1 July 2019  Clydesdale reduced Mr and Mrs Ms overdraft by 
£75. Mrs M phoned Clydesdale at 2pm on 1 April 2019  because she couldnt  see a reduction 
in her overdraft. But Clydesdale explained  the reduction would not necessarily happen at the 
beginning of the working day. And as our investigator pointed  out, 1 June was a Saturday,  
so Clydesdale  wouldnt make the June reduction until the next working day which was 3 
June 2019. So Im satisfied Clydesdale Bank is keeping to its arrangement.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs M were  confused  by the letters  it sent them. And its 
accepted it didnt give Mrs M a good service when she phoned to complain. Its paid them 
£100 for the inconvenience caused which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M want Clydesdale to refund  all charges its made  since  the account was 
opened. Our investigator looked into the last six years and Mrs M indicated she was happy 
with that. But I cant  see that Clydesdale has made any mistake in charging those fees as 
they were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Mrs M says Clydesdale didnt open  the right account  for their circumstances. I cant  see 
shes raised this particular issue with the bank and I cant comment  on it without Clydesdale  
being given an opportunity to respond. If Mr and Mrs M want to take this further they will 
need to make a formal  complaint on this point to the bank.  But as this relates to an event 
that is more than six years ago they may find their compliant is out of time. 
I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed  with my decision but for the reasons Ive given Im 
not going to ask Clydesdale to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1102564