1 - Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC  61complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that West Bromwich  Building Society received a high level of 
commission for selling them a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy in 
connection with their joint mortgage  in 2007.
background
Mr and Mrs B complained about the mis-sale of their PPI policy previously and this Service  
dealt with that complaint in February 2019   we decided  we could not look at the complaint.
In 2018, in light of the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1, Mr and Mrs B complained  to 
West Bromwich  Building Society  about  the commission it received from selling them  the PPI 
policy. When West Bromwich Building  Society  rejected  the complaint, they referred it to our 
Service
In February 2019,  our adjudicator explained to Mr and Mrs B that because  their mortgage 
was taken out after 31 October  2004, it was a regulated mortgage  and the rules  and 
guidance about commission didnt apply to them.  So West Bromwich Building Society 
wouldnt be refunding  any of the commission Mr and Mrs B paid.
Mr and Mrs B wanted to know the amount  of commission West Bromwich Building  Society  
charged on this PPI sale. Our adjudicator  asked  West Bromwich Building Society for this 
information but it declined to give it as the rules  and guidance about  commission  did not 
apply to Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the commission  complaint 
to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I should explain  that Im not looking at any issues  relating to the sale of the PPI that 
were dealt with by my colleague in February  2019. So my decision will focus solely  on the 
complaint Mr and Mrs B made about  the level of commission  West Bromwich Building 
Society received  from the sale of the PPI policy.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN13943832But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. It was possible for mortgages taken out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage   such as a 
further advance  or interest rate switch. Different  lenders took different  approaches to this. 
Mr and Mrs Bs credit  agreement (the mortgage) started in 2007, so it is a regulated  
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out at section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about section 140A of the Act 
and the rules and guidance made  by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in the light of the Plevin  
judgment, arent applicable. So West Bromwich Building Society doesnt need to refund any 
of the commission  Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
We asked for the commission  information  Mr and Mrs B required, but as the rules and 
guidance about commission did not apply  to this case, we could  not take this particular 
request any further.
As Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was a regulated mortgage, it was no longer covered by the 
Consumer Credit Act. This means  the FCAs rules and guidance dont apply. So West 
Bromwich Building Society  doesnt  need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs B paid 
for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1394383