K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Santander UK plc mis-sold a payment protection  insurance
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mrs F in 2003, in connection with a
mortgage. The policy provided Mrs F with cover  for accident, sickness  and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Santander gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable  for Mrs Fs needs?
-Did Santander give Mrs F the information she needed to decide whether to
take out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether
Mrs F is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done  something different  such as 
not taking out the policy   if there hadnt been any problems  with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint  and Ive set out my reasons  below.
Mrs F says Santander didnt make it clear  to her that the policy was optional,  and that she 
was put under pressure to buy it. Ive noted  everything Mrs F has said.
Santander hasnt  been able to provide  much  information from the time the policy  was sold.  
Thats not surprising  given the amount of time thats passed, and its similar to some  other 
cases Ive seen.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mrs F and Santander 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these  events took place many  years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Without anything  else to support what Mrs F has told me, I dont think  I can fairly and 
reasonably say that Santander didnt make  her aware that the policy was optional.
Ref: DRN13849602Santander has accepted that it advised Mrs F to take out the policy  and it doesnt  look like it
was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. I say this
because:
-Mrs F was eligible  for the policy given  her circumstances and the PPI terms
and conditions.
-Mrs F says she would have received some work-related benefits  if she couldnt
work due to sickness or accident, and that her parents  would have helped  her. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to Mrs Fs occupational  benefits  and would  
do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mrs F could use 
her work-  related benefits to pay for other  expenses. And she wouldnt have had to 
rely on her parents. So I think Mrs F would have had some  use for the policy despite 
her existing arrangements.
-Mrs F wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main  benefits,
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical
conditions. As she could have benefited  from the full extent of the cover I think  it
unlikely she needed  better advice or information  about  the policys  exclusions and
limitations.
-I cant be sure that the cost of the PPI was made clear to Mrs F before she agreed
to buy it. But she agreed to buy the policy  knowing she would have to pay
something for it. And Ive seen nothing to suggest  it was unaffordable or that the
benefit wasnt enough to cover her monthly  mortgage repayments.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it
should have been. But she chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have wanted this
type of cover. As Ive already said, Mrs F wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations and the policy  seems to have been  affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs F
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall,  I
think she would still have  taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1384960