K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI)  decision to decline their claim 
for a stolen handbag under their home contents policy.
My references to Mr and Mrs M will also include a third party acting on their behalf. And my 
references to UKI will also include its agents.  
Background
Mr and Mrs M were  burgled while away on holiday.  They claimed for a number of stolen 
items including  two luxury  branded watches, a designer handbag  and various other items of 
jewellery. This complaint addresses the claim for the handbag only. Mr and Mrs M are also 
unhappy about the outcome of their claim for other  items, but UKI is handling this as 
a separate complaint. 
The designer handbag was listed as a specified item, and Mr and Mrs M had stated the 
value to be £10,010 when adding it to the policy. 
Following the claim, UKI requested proof  of ownership of the handbag.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  have  a receipt for the handbag.  They  said this was a gift from Mrs Ms 
sons. They provided statements from Mrs Ms sons and friends who said theyd been shown 
the handbag at Mr and Mrs Ms home.  One of Mrs Ms sons  also provided  a copy  of his bank 
statement showing a large cash withdrawal around the time he said the handbag  was 
purchased. 
Mr and Mrs M said they were initially unaware  of the high value of the handbag. They said 
one of Mrs Ms sons had asked them if the handbag was insured and it was only at this point 
that they became aware of its value. They said following this, they added the handbag to 
their contents policy. 
UKI said it wasnt satisfied that Mr and Mrs M had proved they owned  the handbag,  and it 
turned down this element of their claim.  Mr and Mrs M were  dissatisfied with the outcome 
and complained. 
UKI responded to the complaint. It said it wouldnt meet  the claim for the handbag as Mr and 
Mrs M had not provided proof of ownership.  It said the requirement for proof of ownership  
was stated in the policy  terms. And said this proof was needed  even though the handbag 
was listed on the policy. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to us. And so its for me 
to make a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said:  
I didnt think it was unreasonable  that UKI had asked Mr and Mrs M to provide some  
proof that they owned the item theyre claiming for, and its value. 
Ref: DRN15531962I said Mr and Mrs M made a wider claim for various stolen items and were able to 
evidence ownership of the majority of them. In the circumstances of the other items 
claimed for, I thought this built a picture  of an overall lifestyle  which  I understood 
Mr and Mrs M to have. So I said I thought  it was most likely  that they owned the 
designer handbag they claimed for. 
Mr and Mrs M said UKI didnt make it clear  to them that they would  need  evidence of 
ownership to make  a claim. However, I didnt think this would have made  
a difference. The handbag was a gift and Mr and Mrs M had never had a receipt for 
it. Plus, its transpired through  the statement provided from Mrs Ms son, that he 
bought the handbag from a friend, so I thought it was unlikely he would have been 
provided with a receipt. 
I accepted the reasons Mr and Mrs M gave for being unable to provide  photographic 
evidence of the handbag  as might be expected. And I accepted their reasons for not 
having a receipt.  In providing statements from their sons  and friends  about  the 
handbag, I thought  Mr and Mrs M had done enough to prove they owned  it. 
I thought the evidence  Mr and Mrs M provided was sufficient. And if UKI wanted to 
further validate the claim for the handbag,  there was more investigation it could have 
done and further  evidence  it could  have asked for. So, I didnt think UKI had turned 
down the claim fairly. Because of this, I thought UKI should  deal with the claim for the 
handbag subject to the rest of the terms and conditions of the policy.
the response to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional  decision. 
UKI didnt  accept my provisional decision.  It reiterated the reasons it had previously given for 
rejecting the claim. And added that it had seen no evidence  that the handbag was genuine.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI said its seen no evidence that the designer handbag was genuine. Ive seen nothing 
which causes me to doubt the authenticity of the handbag, based on the amount Mrs Ms 
sons said they paid for it, and the amount Mrs M said her son had told her to insure the 
handbag for. And as I said in my provisional  decision, I thought  the evidence Mr and Mrs M 
had provided of the value of the handbag  was sufficient.  
Ref: DRN15531963The additional point  UKI raised hasnt changed my mind, so I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision and summarised  above.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint and direct UK 
Insurance Limited to deal with the claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
Gemma Warner 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1553196