K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about delays on the part of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) 
in handling a claim under his home insurance policy.
background
In November 2017 Mr B made a claim to RSA for fire damage  to his underground  pipes after 
his boiler caught  fire. The boiler was outside.  There was damage  to the pipes that run from 
the boiler into the house. The boiler was replaced but the pipes needed to be dug up and 
replaced. There was also damage to the side of the house.
RSA appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claim.  
Mr B complained to RSA because of delays on the part of the loss adjuster and its 
contractor. He said he had to keep chasing  to get anything done. On 9 May 2018  RSA wrote 
to Mr B with its final response  on his complaint. It offered him £500  compensation for its poor 
service. Mr B accepted  RSAs offer.
In August  2018  Mr B brought a further complaint. He said he was still waiting for the works to 
be finished. He asked RSA to change  contractor. RSA appointed  a different contractor to 
finish the works. On 8 September  2018 RSA apologised for the delay on its part and paid 
him a further £150 compensation.
Mr B wasnt  happy with that and brought his complaint  to this service.  Our adjudicator  didnt 
uphold the complaint. She didnt think RSA was responsible for all the delays in carrying out 
the works.  She thought  RSAs offer of £150 compensation for the further  delay was fair and 
reasonable.
As Mr B didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only looking at how RSAs handled  Mr Bs claim up from 10 May 2018  to 8 September  
2018 being the period  covered by Mr Bs second complaint. If hes unhappy with how RSA 
handled the claim after that point,  hell need  to make  a further  complaint to RSA and if hes 
unhappy with the outcome, he may bring  a further  complaint to this service.  
In complaints like this I dont always  look at each and every  issue or examine precisely why 
things went wrong. I generally  just look at the claim/complaint  as a whole and if RSA didnt 
handle things well, decide whether  any (or any more) compensation is warranted.
Although Im not persuaded all the delays during this period were  caused by RSA,  I can 
understand Mr B becoming frustrated with how this claim  was handled. And theres no 
doubt he had to chase RSA more  than he should  have had to. That will have caused him 
some stress and inconvenience.  But to its credit RSA recognised this and made an offer of 
compensation.
Ref: DRN17745872Overall, whilst I appreciate that Mr B doesnt think its enough, Im satisfied  that the further  
compensation of £150 offered by RSA was fair in the circumstances. It is in the region  of 
what Id have  considered  asking it to pay if the offer hadnt already  been made. I dont 
therefore think there are grounds for me to require it to pay any more.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1774587