K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background
Mrs P bought the policy in 1997  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs P says the PPI was added without her knowledge. HSBC says that it wouldve got 
her consent  before adding the cover  to his account and it wouldve made it clear to Mrs P 
that the policy was optional.  
Where  theres a dispute about what happened, I have to base my decision on what I think is 
most likely to have happened, taking into account all the evidence that is available. 
Neither Mrs P nor HSBC  have been  able to give me any documents  from when this policy  
was sold. But this isnt surprising or unusual  given that this policy  was sold over 20 years 
ago. So Ive also thought about what I know about  how HSBC sold PPI policies at around 
this time.
From what  we know, HSBC wouldve normally got its customers consent  before adding a 
policy and it wouldve usually made it clear that the cover was optional. So given  that there 
isnt any information  available  from the sale, I cant fairly say that HSBC gave the impression 
Mrs P had to take the policy to get the credit  card or that it didnt give her a choice  in taking 
the cover.
So on balance, I think its more likely that HSBC gave  Mrs P a choice in taking PPI and she 
chose to take it.
Mrs P cant  remember if HSBC advised  her to take the policy.  And HSBC cant  tell us 
whether it gave Mrs P any advice  either.  But I dont think it matters whether HSBC  advised 
Mrs P to take the policy out not because even if it did - based  on what I know  about her 
circumstances at the time - I think the policy  was right for Mrs P. I say this because:
Based  on what Ive seen, Mrs P was eligible for the policy.  
Mrs P says she didnt have any sick pay benefits from her employer. The policy  is 
most likely to have covered 10% of the monthly balance  on Mrs Ps card if she was 
Ref: DRN15935492unable to work due to sickness,  an accident  or became unemployed. And it couldve 
paid out for a maximum of 12 months.  
Ive noted  Mrs Ps comments about the fact she had shares  and savings and her 
father being able to help out if she couldnt  make her repayments.  Although  Mrs P 
couldve have sold her shares,  the price isnt always guaranteed.  And having  the PPI 
wouldve meant her savings could have been used for other essential costs. As for 
Mrs Ps father being able to cover her repayments if she was unable to. I dont  doubt  
he wouldve wanted to help. But circumstances can change so this help cant  always  
be relied upon. 
Mrs P says she was self-employed. So Ive carefully reviewed the terms of the policy  
but I dont think  being  self-employed would  have made it any more difficult for her to 
make a claim. 
Looking at Mrs Ps circumstances, I dont think there was anything else that wouldve 
made it difficult for her to make a claim. For example, she didnt  have any existing 
health concerns.
Nothing Mrs P has told me suggests  she couldnt afford to make  the monthly 
payments. 
HSBC shouldve taken  reasonable  steps  to ensure Mrs P was given clear enough 
information to make a choice about  whether to take the policy or not. 
Taking into account what we know, its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs P about the 
PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But I dont think better  information  wouldve 
stopped her from buying the PPI. I say this for the same reasons I think  the policy  was right 
for her. 
Taking all of this into account,  I dont  think Mrs P has lost out from anything  HSBC mightve 
done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1593549