K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  because ERGO  Reiseversicherung AG (ERGO) hasnt paid a claim 
for a cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B bought an annual travel  insurance  policy provided by ERGO online in July
2018. Cover under the policy started  in August 2018.
In between buying the policy and cover starting, Mrs B was referred for a colonoscopy.
Unfortunately, Mrs B was later diagnosed  with cancer, so Mr and Mrs B cancelled their
upcoming holiday and made a claim with ERGO.
ERGO said the claim wasnt covered because Mr and Mrs Bs policy  excluded  claims arising
from known pre-existing medical  conditions.
Mr and Mrs B complained to ERGO, saying Mrs B didnt have a pre-existing medical
condition and her cancer  diagnosis  was unexpected.
After asking for copies  of Mrs Bs medical records and reviewing  a letter  from her doctor,
ERGO acknowledged Mrs B wasnt aware  she had cancer when she was referred for the
colonoscopy. However ERGO said Mr and Mrs Bs policy didnt cover claims arising from
medical conditions  which were under investigation at the time of buying the policy.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and initially  said he didnt think  Mr and
Mrs Bs claim was covered  because Mrs B had symptoms of a pre-existing medical condition
which she shouldve told ERGO about  when she bought  the policy.
However, after considering further  comments and evidence from ERGO  and Mr and Mrs B,
our investigator issued a second opinion recommending that ERGO should pay Mr and
Mrs Bs claim. As ERGO  didnt agree,  the complaint was passed to me.
I made  a provisional decision  about  this complaint. In it, I said:
When making my provisional decision Ive taken into account the law, relevant industry
guidance and the terms and conditions  of the contract between  Mr and Mrs B and ERGO, as
well as what I think is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. But Im not bound  by
the law or by any previous decisions made  by this service. The Financial Ombudsman
Service makes  decisions  based on the specific circumstances of each individual case.
Mr and Mrs B have  made a number  of arguments about why they think Mrs B shouldnt  be
considered as having a pre-existing medical  condition.
Although Mr and Mrs Bs policy excludes  claims relating to pre-existing medical conditions 
and I note the policy definition of a medical condition includes undiagnosed symptoms  I
dont think allowing ERGO to rely on such an exclusion produces a fair and reasonable
outcome in this case.
This is because ERGO  had the opportunity to ask medical questions  about Mr and Mrs Bs
Ref: DRN16095382health at the point the policy was sold. And unless Mr and Mrs B made a misrepresentation
about Mrs Bs health when answering  these medical questions, I dont think  ERGO can fairly
say Mrs B didnt disclose something to it when she bought the policy.
Ive looked at the questions Mrs B was asked  when the policy  was sold.  The relevant
question asks has any traveller;
in the last two years,  suffered  from any medical  or psychological conditions  and for
which theyve received treatment been  prescribed medication or attended any
consultations investigations or check ups.
Based on the information I have about  Mrs Bs medical history  I dont  think Mrs B had
anything to tell ERGO  about in July 2018.  Although Mrs B had been for bowel cancer tests at
that point these seem to have been  routine screenings so, considering the wording of the
question asked, I dont  think  Mrs B needed  to tell ERGO about them. And Mrs B couldnt
have told ERGO about the colonoscopy  referral  when  buying the policy,  as the referral
hadnt happened yet.
So, I dont think its fair or reasonable  for ERGO to decline Mr and Mrs Bs claim based  on a
policy exclusion for pre-existing medical  conditions or based on an argument  that Mrs B
failed to tell it about  a pre-existing  medical condition when she bought  the policy.
Having said that, I dont think Mr and Mrs Bs claim is covered under their policy  but ERGO
hasnt been clear about the correct reason why the claim isnt covered.
When a policyholder and an insurer enter into an annual  contract  of insurance, both parties
are bound by the terms of that contract  for the agreed term. However  most,  if not all, annual
travel insurance policies contain  a clause about  changes in the policyholders  health.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy says at page four;
Changes  to your  health after purchasing  your  policy
If after you purchase your policy, or before booking any new trips, any of the
following happens:
you are diagnosed with a new medical condition
your doctor, or consultant changes  your prescribed  medication
you receive inpatient  medical treatment
you are placed on a waiting list for investigation or medical treatment
then you must contact
This may result in an additional  premium  to allow cover to continue, to add additional
Terms and Conditions  to your policy or to exclude cover for the newly diagnosed
condition or for the condition that has undergone  significant change.
If we are unable to continue to provide  cover, or if you do not wish to pay the
additional premium  you will be entitled to make a claim under Section 1
(Cancellation) for costs which cannot be recovered  elsewhere for trips booked  prior 
to the change in health
Ref: DRN16095383I think this clause is clearly set out within Mr and Mrs Bs policy.  The requirement to notify
ERGO about any changes in health is also set out during the sales process.
We wouldnt think its fair or reasonable to expect  a policyholder to notify an insurer  about  all
changes in their health,  for example a routine doctors visit or the diagnosis of a relatively
minor one-off medical condition.
But if a policyholder experiences a significant change in their health which would
fundamentally alter the risk which the insurer agreed to accept, then wed generally expect a
policyholder to inform  their insurer about  this. And if the insurer can demonstrate this
significant change  in health  would  change the terms on which  it is prepared  to offer
insurance cover to its policyholders, its not unfair or unreasonable for the insurer  to amend
the terms of the annual  contract which has already been agreed.
I understand a cancer diagnosis wasnt envisaged at the point of Mrs Bs colonoscopy
referral. But regardless of what Mrs B and/or her doctors knowledge or suspicions about an
eventual diagnosis were,  I think the referral  for a colonoscopy investigation in itself
constituted what  Id consider to be a significant change  in Mrs Bs health. So, I think Mrs B
needed to tell ERGO  about the referral.
If Mr and Mrs B had contacted ERGO to tell them  about this referral, ERGO would have said
it couldnt offer cover  for any claims arising  from Mrs Bs colonoscopy investigation.
Due to the timing of the referral, Mr and Mrs B wouldnt be entitled  to make a cancellation
claim under the changes  to your health clause set out above. This is because their policy
cover hadnt  yet started at the time of the referral so ERGO wasnt yet on risk.
I understand Mr and Mrs Bs insurance  policy was running at the time of Mrs Bs cancer
diagnosis but whats relevant here is the date of the significant change  in Mrs Bs health 
and I think this was the date of the colonoscopy  referral.
Overall, I think this means Mr and Mrs Bs claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions
of their policy. It may have  been  helpful if ERGO had clearly identified  the correct  reason
why this claim wasnt covered from the outset, but I dont  think ERGO has been unfair or
unreasonable by refusing to pay Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
Im very sorry to hear about  Mrs Bs illness and I hope she is recovering well. I have
sympathy for the situation  Mr and Mrs B have found  themselves  in. If the policy start date
had been chosen as the date the policy was bought, Id have expected ERGO to pay any
cancellation costs  up to the date of Mrs Bs referral.  But, due to the timing of what  happened
in this case, I cant fairly recommend that ERGO should do anything more.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
ERGO responded  to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr and 
Mrs B disagreed with my provisional findings and responded with further comments. 
Ref: DRN16095384my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Bs additional comments, but I wont  be changing  my 
provisional decision. 
Our investigators reach  an opinion about  a complaint in a first-stage attempt to resolve  the 
matter in an informal way, based  on the outcome they think an ombudsman  might reach. But 
an investigators opinion  isnt binding on the consumer or the business and either party  has 
the right to ask for an ombudsman to review  the complaint  as the second and final stage in 
our process.  
Ive carried out an independent and impartial  review of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and 
reached a decision  about what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome for both parties in all 
of the circumstances of the case. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but I dont think I can 
fairly say ERGO  should accept their claim.  
Mr and Mrs Bs policy requires  them to tell their insurer if any traveller is awaiting medical 
investigations. Mr and Mrs B dont agree that Mrs Bs colonoscopy  referral  constituted  a 
significant change  in health  and have put forward several scenarios which they say 
demonstrate the importance of an individuals medical history and the surrounding  medical 
evidence. 
I wont be commenting on any of the scenarios put forward by Mr and Mrs B, as whats 
relevant here is the specific circumstances of Mrs Bs individual case.  
I understand Mrs Bs comments  about  her previous negative test results,  her general health 
otherwise and her GPs suspicions about what the possible diagnosis  would  be, and Ive 
taken these points  into account. Ive also taken  into account Mrs Bs symptoms in the month 
prior to her referral, which are described  in her doctors referral letter. 
Overall, I think Mrs Bs onward  referral for a colonoscopy investigation was a significant 
change in her circumstances which fundamentally altered the risk ERGO had agreed to 
accept. And I think it would have been reasonable for Mr and Mrs B to have told ERGO  
about this referral. The fact that Mrs Bs eventual diagnosis was an unexpected one doesnt 
change my opinion  on this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1609538