K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about Markerstudy  Insurance Company Limiteds service after he 
claimed on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Markerstudy includes its agents.
background
Mr Ts car hit another while in a car park. He asked  Markerstudy to repair  the damage to his 
car. Mr T was very unhappy with Markerstudys service. He said there were delays in 
collecting and repairing his car and when he got it back he wasn't  happy  with the quality of 
the repairs. He also said that there was damage  to other parts  of the car that hadn't  been 
there before he put it in for repair.
Markerstudy acknowledged that there had been  some delays, so it offered Mr T £100 
compensation. But otherwise it thought it had dealt with the claim reasonably. Mr T didn't 
agree and brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 March 2020. For ease I've copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, its likely  Ill partly uphold it. 
I've seen that there was a considerable delay between Mr T contacting Markerstudy and his 
car being collected. But the garage Markerstudy appointed have evidence that they tried to 
contact Mr T 14 times in a two week period to arrange that. Mr T says that he has no record 
of any missed calls. But the garage had the right phone number and it's shown us evidence 
of its attempts to contact Mr T, so it's not clear why Mr T has no record  of those calls.  But 
given theres evidence of the garage  trying  to contact Mr T I don't think any initial delay is 
because of the garages actions.
There was then a further delay  after what appears to have been  some miscommunication. 
According to Mr T the garage told him he didn't  need  to be there when it inspected his car at 
his home  address. But the garage  then rang him to say that they needed  to get into the car 
but as they didn't have  the keys they couldn't do so. So they asked Mr T to take some 
photos of the car including its mileage, which caused a further delay.
Having provided  those photos  there was then another delay of around two weeks until the garage  
collected the car. Markerstudys told us that delay was because it was waiting  for a courtesy car 
to be available. But Mr T had told Markerstudy  when he first reported the accident that he wasn't 
comfortable driving the car and in fact had arranged for it to be recovered himself. So Mr T was 
effectively without a working car at that point anyway. So delaying  collecting his car because  a 
courtesy car wasn't available was simply slowing down starting the repairs.  But, in any event,  
Markerstudy acknowledged that it had added to delays and it offered Mr T £100 compensation.
Repairs then took the garage  longer than expected as, when it did a geometry check, it 
found there was suspension damage  and the garage needed to order  parts,  causing  an 
extended delay.  I can understand that Mr T found  this frustrating. But I think that there  was 
little Markerstudy could have done. It couldn't return the car to Mr T if it knew it wasnt  safe to 
be put back on the road. And the parts had to be ordered; so the garage couldn't  do the work 
Ref: DRN12466962straightaway. It's also worth noting  that Mr T had a courtesy car at that point so while he 
would have preferred to have his own car back he did have a car to get around  in
When the car was eventually returned  to Mr T he was unhappy with the quality of repairs  
and he said that there  had been  additional  damage  done to it entirely unrelated  to the 
accident. For example,  although the accident damaged the front end of his car he said that 
that there  were now problems with the rear fender  and tailgate and he said a plastic switch 
inside the car had been snapped off.
I don't think Markerstudy  ever addressed Mr Ts complaints about the new damage to his car. It 
did pass Mr Ts email  in which  he set out his unhappiness with the car to the garage  but they 
didn't comment on the new damage either.  I think that was a mistake. I think  Markerstudy 
should have asked the garage for its comments. I can't see that it ever did that. Given  the 
considerable passage of time since the events complained about, I don't think  there's  any value 
in doing that now. And, I think its likely that if it had asked the garage  for their comments  they 
would have said they werent responsible for the damage to the back of the car. Ive seen some 
images of the car taken before it went in for repair. But those aren't clear enough to show  
whether or not there was damage  to the rear of the car at the time. And Mr T no longer has any 
images of the car after it came back from the garage. So I don't have enough evidence to say 
with any certainty that the garage  caused  damage to the cars rear. But I do find it disappointing 
that Markerstudy didn't address the matter  head on when Mr T made his complaint.
After Mr T complained Markerstudy offered to have the garage take a look at Mr Ts car 
again. I can understand why, given the delays and his unhappiness with the quality of 
repairs, Mr T was reluctant to let the garage have his car again. But I think that would  have 
been the ideal opportunity for Mr T to discuss with the garage exactly  what  he thought  was 
wrong with the repairs and for the garage  to be clear about what  they thought they were  or 
werent responsible  for, including the damage to the rear of the car. And generally  I think  its 
fair for an insurers garage  to be given the opportunity to put right any substandard repairs  in 
the first case, although I do understand why Mr T was reluctant to do this.
To try and sort matters out our investigator  recommended that Markerstudy appoint an 
independent engineer to examine  the car and to decide whether the repair work was or wasn't 
up to standard.  And, if the independent  engineer agreed that extra work was needed 
Markerstudy should pay for that. Markerstudy agreed to that proposal  and suggested  an 
independent engineering firm to do the work. But Mr T was concerned  that the firm Markerstudy 
suggested might not be truly independent and asked if he could instruct an engineer himself. 
Markerstudy agreed but there was a delay in Mr Ts engineer  looking at the car. And, with the 
benefit of hindsight, I think it would have been  helpful if Markerstudy had been  clear about what  
sort of information it would need from the engineer.  And Markerstudy should have provided 
Mr T with the images its garage had taken  of his car together with its estimate and report of the 
work it had done.  That would  have  allowed an independent engineer to see exactly  what  work  
had been carried  out and to establish if it had been done to the appropriate standard.  
Instead when  the engineer Mr T instructed did produce his findings he simply provided a list 
of work the car required. He didn't include  any images  of the car. And his findings didn't say 
anything about  whether  or not the required work was related to the accident or the previous 
repairs or if the work was simply needed because  of general wear and tear. Mr T said he 
only asked the engineer  to comment on the previous repairs.  That might be the case  but 
some of the parts listed were unrelated to the areas of damage. The engineers  information 
lacks detail, analysis,  and images, which most independent engineers would know is 
required in such reports. So, I don't  think it was of any real use in assessing  whether or not 
Markerstudys repairs were up to the required standard  or not and if they weren't why not.  
Ref: DRN12466963Additionally there are further anomalies  with the engineering evidence Mr T supplied. Mr T 
provided an invoice  for work he had done  on the car to get it through  its MOT  around six 
weeks before his engineer produced his findings. But Mr Ts engineers  findings  lists the work  
that the car apparently still required and that includes work already done  by the garage to put 
the car through its MOT six weeks earlier. For example, under a heading  of replace it said:
n/s/f [near side front] suspension arm
n/s/f [near side front]] shock absorber
alternator drive belt 
power steering  drive  belt.
But all these items appeared  on the invoice for the work Mr T had already had done  to the 
car in order  to pass the MOT. So Mr Ts engineer who listed that those items needed 
replacing couldnt possibly have known  that they needed replacing  because of anything  
Markerstudys garage had done, because all the parts had already been replaced. And its 
surprising that Mr Ts engineer said those items  needed replacing given they had recently 
been replaced, which he should have  known had he examined those parts. Also Ive noticed  
that the invoice from the garage  for the MOT  work makes a mistake when giving Mr Ts cars 
registration number.  And Mr Ts engineer, when producing  his list some six weeks  later,  
makes the same error  with the registration number. I think  thats most likely to have 
happened if the engineer  simply  copied the information from the MOT  invoice across to his 
findings. So in those circumstances I don't find Mr Ts engineer's list reliable.
Further its clear that Mr T had to have  work  done  to his car to put it through an MOT.  But 
that was around  a year after Markerstudy  had repaired the car. I've also noted that, a year 
earlier, as soon as hed collected  the car from Markerstudys garage Mr T had to have his car 
MOTd. At that time, while his car passed  its MOT,  it did so with an advisory  in other words 
a warning - that its nearside front suspension  wasn't operating as it should. And by the time 
of his next MOT, a year later, that area of the car now needed work doing on it in order  to 
pass the MOT. So it appears that the wear  to the nearside front suspension  had got worse in 
the year since the previous MOT and with the car having travelled  a further 8,000 miles. I 
also think its notable that the parts Mr Ts engineer said needed replacing are on the other  
side of the car to the area of impact when  he had the accident.  And Im aware that Mr T 
damaged his car while manoeuvring it in a car park and that this was at low speed. So I find 
it extremely unlikely, from a lay perspective, that Mr Ts accident caused damage  to the other  
side of his car particularly  to its suspension  by bumping it in a car park. Similarly, I know  that 
the two belts that Mr T had replaced are situated  between the engine and the radiator on the 
car. This wasn't an area of damage caused by the accident.  So I find it unlikely,  on balance, 
that those parts needed replacing because of the incident in the car park.
After we initially forwarded Mr Ts engineering evidence  on to Markerstudy it wanted to 
instruct an engineer to inspect the car itself.  Given the evidence  Mr T supplied  wasnt useful; 
I can see why it would  have wanted  to do that. But, because of a delay at our end - for which 
I offer my apologies  to those our service have already provided - by the time Markerstudy 
got round  to doing so, Mr T had already part exchanged his car, so it was no longer available  
for inspection. And its certainly possible that a second engineers report might have 
identified other issues  that were  related  to the accident and repair. For example sometimes  
paintwork requires further blending. But because Mr T had already sold the car I don't know 
whether thats  the case.
Ref: DRN12466964Mr T thinks that, because the car wasn't  up to the condition that it was in before the accident, 
he received less in value  when he part exchanged  it. But Im not persuaded that's the case. 
The dealer  that bought Mr Ts car paid him £4,800  for it. Mr T thinks  it was worth considerably 
more than that and he believes he could have  received at least £8,000  for it had it been  in 
good condition  and he'd sold it privately. We don't know  what Mr T would have got for his car 
had he sold it privately.  But I think its worth noting  that Mr T had finance  outstanding on the 
car. So selling it privately  might not have been  as easy a prospect as Mr T believes, as the 
credit provider might have insisted that Mr T settle any outstanding finance before he sold the 
car. And Im aware that cars with outstanding  finance on them  are difficult  to sell privately,  as 
technically they still belong to the finance  company and not the cars registered keeper.
But, in any event, Ive looked at whether theres any convincing evidence that the dealer that 
did the part exchange deal with Mr T paid him less because of the previous repairs. The 
dealer gave Mr T £4,800 for his car noting that it was in a good condition  and without a 
service history. That amount is in line with the trade value of the car as given in the industry  
accepted trade guides. We made  enquiries  of the dealer and it confirmed  that the highest 
rating it gives cars its considering buying  as a trade-in deal is excellent. But it told us that 
to meet  that criterion  the car would most likely  be quite new,  with no damage and a full 
service history. But Mr Ts car had paint chip damage before it was repaired, it was around 
nine years old when  he traded  it in and it didn't have a full service  history.  So I don't think  the 
dealer would have classed it as excellent  even before  the accident.
Also the dealer explained to us that how much it offers as a trade-in  price  can depend on 
how much  the car being bought is worth. So if Mr T had bought a more expensive  
replacement car then its likely the dealer would have offered him more for his own car. But 
in any event given  that the dealer rated  Mr Ts car as being in good condition it doesn't 
appear that the dealer  was overly concerned by any defects still present from the previous 
repairs, if indeed those  defects existed. So Im not persuaded  that Mr T lost out on his trade-
in price because  any remedial work following  the repairs was outstanding.
Mr Ts recently  told us that if it hadn't been  for the post repair issues  with the car hed have 
probably kept it. But thats out of step with what he told us while we were  looking into his 
complaint. At one point hed told us that he intended to give the car back before the halfway 
point of the finance. Indeed he told us he desperately needed something more suitable  
because he now had a baby. And that was why hed part exchanged the car. So I'm not 
persuaded that Mr T would have kept the car but for the issues  with the repairs.
provisional conclusion  
For the reasons  give above, I don't think its fair to conclude that Mr T received less for his car 
when he sold it than he otherwise might  have done. Ive considered whether further 
engineering evidence could assist with that. As it might have been  possible to ask an 
independent engineer to do a desktop assessment. But as there  is an absence of images  with 
which an engineer  could make a reasonable assessment, I don't think thats appropriate  now.
That said I think theres much more that Markerstudy could have done to make Mr Ts 
journey to this point  smoother. It has previously agreed to cover the cost of a replacement 
tyre, which I think  is fair. But I think there were delays and miscommunication at the outset.  
And I dont  think it ever appropriately addressed  Mr Ts complaint that his car came back  
from the garage with damage that hadnt  been there before. That omission has left Mr T 
convinced that hes now thousands of pounds  out of pocket. While I'm not persuaded that's  
the case I do understand that not fully addressing Mr Ts complaint at the outset had been a 
Ref: DRN12466965source of distress and inconvenience for him. To address that I think Markerstudy should 
pay Mr T a further £400 compensation. 
Markerstudy accepted  my provisional  decision and Mr T said he had no further comments  to 
make.
my findings
I've again  considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. 
As neither Mr T nor Markerstudy  objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im partly upholding  this complaint. I require Markerstudy  
Insurance Company Limited  to:
reimburse My T for the cost of a replacement tyre. 
pay Mr T a further £400  compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience. It 
should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr T has accepted my 
final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Markerstudy pays  interest and considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr T a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN1246696