K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited (LV) unreasonably 
settled another  drivers claim against  his motor policy, causing his premiums to increase.
background
Mr W confirmed  to LV that he was involved in an accident in April 2016  where  he made 
contact with the rear of the other drivers  car. LV told him via email on 13 June 2016  that it 
would settle the other  drivers claim on the best possible terms. 
Mr W was concerned the other drivers  claim was potentially  fraudulent  or exaggerated  and 
said to LV. LV considered Mr Ws issues but didnt think it had enough evidence  to pursue 
them. LV didnt tell Mr W when it has settled the other drivers claim.  It acknowledged it 
ought to have done this when Mr W complained. And so it then offered Mr W £150 
compensation for this, which Mr W rejected. 
Mr W said his insurance premium has risen by £350 per year because LV settled the other 
drivers claim, which  he thinks is wrong.  
As he remained dissatisfied, he brought his complaint  to us. The adjudicator  didnt think  LV 
had done anything wrong. Mr W didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. And Ill now explain  why.
Mr W is firmly of the view that LV shouldnt have  paid what  it did for the other  drivers claim,  
as thinks it was exaggerated or at worst  fraudulent.
However, its clear since Mr W admitted he hit the rear of the other drivers car, hes liable  for 
causing the accident. That also means hes liable for any consequences that flow from that 
accident, whatever  or not they might be. 
So LV was duty bound to admit liability to the other driver when that other driver made his 
claim. Any motor insurer  would do that on a rear end shunt accident as the law decrees that 
negligence for the accident rests  with the party that drove into the rear of the other car as the 
driver behind  is under  a duty to be able to stop his car without crashing or bumping  into the 
car in front. In other words the driver  behind must ensure enough space is left between the 
vehicles. So I dont  think LV did anything wrong in admitting  liability for the accident.
Its actual irrelevant for Mr W what LV paid the other driver for damage to his car or any 
personal injury. As that doesnt  affect  the cost of Mr W future premiums. So if LV had had to 
pay £80,000 to the other  driver instead  of £8,000 the effect on Mr Ws future  premiums  
would have been exactly the same. Thats because motor insurers  rate on the fact it was a 
fault claim not how much that fault claim cost the relevant insurer  at the time. Often too, 
insurers will rate even  on non-fault  accidents as actuarially and statistically the likelihood of 
having another accident, even if the first one wasnt your fault, increases.
Ref: DRN16267932Here however, Mr W admitted  he hit the other driver in the rear, and because the other  
driver made  a claim, its recorded  as a fault claim on Mr Ws insurance record and hes 
rated accordingly. Its the fact Mr W caused  the accident,  which affects his future premiums, 
not the amount the other driver claimed.
Therefore Im satisfied  LV did nothing wrong in settling the other drivers claim which  was 
supported by coherent evidence on the best possible terms. Its entitled to have total control 
to conduct, defend and settle any claim under the terms and conditions of the policy  as the 
adjudicator explained in his view. Virtually all motor insurance policies have a similar clause 
so I dont find it at all unusual. Its purpose is simple.  Its to ensure unnecessary  legal and 
courts costs arent incurred. Theres also no obligation for an insurer  to go to court to discuss  
the amount it has to pay the other driver, when its insured caused the accident, simply 
because its insured wishes it to do so. Thats  solely a matter for the insurer to decide.
The clause also doesnt require LV to ensure Mr W or any insured person consents  to any 
settlement either. However, its good  practice  for the insurer to inform  its insured that its 
doing so. Here LV failed to do that and it acknowledged it failed to do that. I think  that 
acknowledgment is appropriate. It has offered Mr W £150 compensation for this failing, 
which I also consider  is adequate.  
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1626793