K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that she didnt receive  her medical  insurance  renewal  documents from 
AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited when should have, and the general level of service shes  
received.
background
Mrs Cs medical  insurance policy was due to renew  on 1 December 2018. As she hadnt 
received any renewal documents - including details about whether the monthly premium 
would increase on renewal - she called AXA on 27 November 2018 to find out what  had 
happened. AXA accepted  that the renewal documents  hadnt  been sent and offered to send 
these to her by email.  It transpires that AXAs representative sent her renewal documents  to 
the wrong email  address as theyd mis-typed part of the address.
Mrs C spoke to AXA again  on 30 November 2018. She was told her renewal documents  had 
been ordered and AXA was able to tell her the cost of the monthly premium.  In recognition of 
the stress  Mrs C had been  through trying to sort out the renewal documentation  and 
information about the premium, AXA agreed  to waive the first months premium  in the sum of 
£339.98.
By 5 December 2018, Mrs C says she still hadnt  received the renewal documents, so she 
called AXA once  more  and was assured that they would be with her soon. She called again 
on 11 and 17 December  2018 as the documents hadnt arrived  and AXA said it would 
arrange for another set of documents to be issued to her. She made subsequent calls 
towards the end of December, including a call on 31 December  2018  that was put through  to 
AXAs health  navigation team  who direct the calls to the correct  department.  It was during 
this call that Mrs C was told that her policy was suspended  pending. Due to the time of 
the call, and that it was New Years  Eve, she couldnt speak with anyone  in the membership 
team until 2 January 2019.
On 2 January  2019, Mrs C contacted  AXA once again and informed it that she still hadnt 
received the renewal documents. AXA agreed to send the membership certificate  by email 
and another set of renewal documents by recorded delivery (which were received  by Mrs C 
the next day). She was told that her policy and premium payments  were  on hold until she 
decided whether she wanted  to renew  the policy on the terms offered.
Mrs C contacted AXA on 16 January 2019 to say she hadnt  received the original renewal 
cover letter. Subsequently, she also received  a letter  from AXA dated 13 February  2019  
saying that it was time to renew  her policy - although  the policy had been due for renewal on 
1 December 2018.
Mrs C complained to AXA and it apologised for the service shed received. It offered to pay 
her £100   in addition  to waving the premium  due for December 2018. Mrs C doesnt think 
that adequately compensates her for the trouble  and upset shed  experienced. She thinks  it 
would be fairer for AXA to also agree to waive further premiums including  those for January 
and February 2019  which she has now paid to ensure that AXA would cover treatment 
under the policy  she needed towards  the end of February 2019.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Cs complaint. He thought  the total amount AXA offered 
Mrs C - £439.98  - fairly compensated her for the trouble and upset shed gone through  as a 
Ref: DRN13681992result of what AXA did wrong. Mrs C disagrees so her complaint has been passed  to me to 
consider everything  afresh and make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to direct 
AXA to do anything more.  I know Mrs C will be disappointed by this but hopefully  shell  
understand my reasons  when  I explain  why. 
The relevant  industry  rules and guidance  say at the point of renewal the insurer  should make  
certain information clear   such as the premium  to be paid on renewal - and let the 
consumer know that they should check whether  the level of cover  offered by the renewal is 
right for them. This information should be provided  to the consumer in good time before the 
renewal. 
AXA accepts  Mrs C wasnt provided with the necessary information in good time before 
renewal. It also accepts that the service Mrs C received after making  AXA aware  that she  
hadnt received  any renewal documents wasnt good enough. 
Having listened  to the recordings  of the phone calls she had with AXAs  representatives, Im 
satisfied she spent  a considerable  amount of time calling AXA for her policy renewal 
documents and querying whether she was still covered under the policy whilst she was 
waiting to receive those  documents.  I accept  this wouldve caused a moderate amount  of 
inconvenience, particularly as many of the calls took place in the lead up to the festive 
season and over new year. I also accept she wouldve felt a moderate  level of frustration as 
a result of not receiving  the renewal documents  being told on several occasions that these 
had been sent to her, and being mistakenly  sent an invitation to renew  her policy  in 
February 2019.
Im also satisfied Mrs C wouldve experienced a moderate  amount of distress. Ive listened to 
a recording of the call that she made on New Years Eve and she describes being at her 
wits end and is clearly  upset as she still hadnt received the renewal documents  and shed 
been told her policy  had been suspended  pending and on hold,  through  no fault of her 
own. Although the effect of her policy  being on hold was explained to her on 2 January 2019,  
when she was able to speak to someone  in the correct department, I accept  she wouldve 
spent time worrying about this for a couple of days on New Years  Eve and New Years  day. 
However, AXA agreed to waive the premium due for December  2018  in the sum of £339.98. 
Its also apologised and offered to pay Mrs C a further £100 to compensate  her for what 
went wrong. That totals £439.98.  I think  that amount fairly and reasonably  reflects the overall  
trouble and upset  Mrs C experienced.  
When making this finding, Ive taken on board all of Mrs Cs comments, including what  she 
says about AXA offering  to waive the premium  due for January 2019  in a call dated 
2 January 2019. However, having  listened to the calls on that day Im satisfied that AXAs 
representative didnt  confirm that the premium due for January 2019 would be waived; she 
said AXA would need to investigate her complaint before  deciding  whether to agree to that.
Mrs C is also unhappy about the amount of time it took AXA to respond to her complaint. 
However, complaint  handling is a regulated activity so I dont have the power to look into that 
particular issue.
Ref: DRN13681993 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject  my decision before 23 November 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1368199