K822xcomplaint
Mr R is unhappy with the way that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with his home 
insurance claim for water damage to his property.
background 
In March 2018 Mr R reported a flood  in his home which affected the kitchen, dining room and 
part of the lounge and bathroom. He and his wife were  moved  to rental  accommodation. 
There were initial delays  of over three weeks in taking any action and Mr R had to complain. 
Some strip out took place and dryers were  installed. UKI paid £150 for the initial delay. 
There were problems of miscommunication  concerning the removal of the kitchen and 
furniture so that repairs could start. The furniture was removed on 5 July, and on 16 July the 
builder came out to remove the plaster. UKI apologised for the further delays and paid £350 
compensation
Drying out was completed by 8 August. Meetings took place into September  over the 
schedule of work. Mr R was given a completion  date of 16 January 2019.  The works 
progressed and were  effectively complete by 24 January, bar a few snagging  issues.  There  
were problems with replacing some  glass doors,  the original design of which  was no longer 
available. So an alternative  had to be found.  Mr R reported in September  2019  that he was 
still waiting for some  expenses to be paid to him, particularly in respect of the electricity  
costs. He was asked to pay the excess when he had already  paid it some  months  previously.
On referral to this service  our investigator  proposed that UKI pay further compensation of 
£300. UKI agreed  to this but Mr R wasnt  satisfied  that this adequately compensated him and 
his wife. This was considering the length of time they had to be out of their home and the 
effect it had on their health.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do consider that Mr R and his wife did have a poor service from UKI and its contractors 
especially in the early part of the claim.  It was unacceptable to leave the property in its 
saturated state for over three weeks before considering what needed to be done to dry it out. 
When the drying out started there was a lack of communication about when the drying 
company would return. Then when the builder came  to remove the kitchen, Mr R hadnt  
been told the contents needed to be cleared out. There  were further miscommunications 
with the removers before the furniture  could be removed into storage by 6 July.
The drying out was finally completed by 8 August. I think  that was too long. There was then 
a further unacceptable delay until the scope of works could be approved, by 20 September.
Ref: DRN12574632I think the repairs were completed  within a reasonable timescale after that, considering what  
needed to be done. But there was a problem with damp coming up through  the floors  which  
delayed the fitting of the new carpet. The kitchen fitters managed  to do the fitting of the 
kitchen in early January.  The proposed  date for completion in January  was just about  kept 
to. I know  there were a few snagging  issues after that but Mr R told us things progressed  
rapidly (after he advised UKI hed approached us). I understand there was a problem with 
the new glass doors but this appeared to be because the original  door design wasnt 
available and a different  replacement had to be sought.
I further think there were  delays in paying Mr R his expenses,  particularly as he kept 
supplying information.  Together with asking  for an excess  that had already been paid, I can 
understand the irritation that caused on top of the problems with the claim and the repairs.
I have to assess whether  the compensation paid, and proposed to be paid, is reasonable. 
This was by Mr Rs account a long and stressful time for him and his wife. Unfortunately an 
escape of water, particularly one as serious as this will cause  a lot of distress and 
inconvenience, not least because it means  living away from the property. And to dry out, 
strip out and repair a property after such an incident  will inevitably take time, upwards of six 
months. The compensation paid and offered is intended to reflect how UKIs conduct  of the 
claim aggravated what had already happened. I think  it likely  that if the claim had progressed 
at a more reasonable pace, even taking into account  the availability of contractors, the claim 
could have been resolved  more quickly.
I can also understand that to have to constantly  chase up UKI and its contractors would have 
added to the stress.  The payment made so far is £500. Its proposed  to pay a further  £300,  
bringing it up to £800. This would fall into our substantial" category of compensation. And 
taking account  of what happened  and the awards  we have made in similar cases  I think a 
total payment  of £800 is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr R a further £300 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020. 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1257463