K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the delays caused  by Alliance Trust Savings  Limited  (Alliance Trust) 
over the transfer  of an existing portfolio from his small self-administered  scheme  (SSAS).  He 
says he had to hold some funds  in cash for longer than necessary and therefore lost the 
opportunity to invest when  he should have been  able to.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 5 September 2019   a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. I 
said that there was no evidence  to show that the transfer couldnt  have  been  completed 
within 90 days of the date that Alliance  Trust received the authority to transfer. I said that as 
Mr Ws cash should have been available for investment before the date the transfer did 
actually complete, Alliance Trust should compare the value of his plan now with what it 
would have been if the cash  had been  invested  earlier.
Alliance Trust  said it would  carry out a loss calculation in line with my provisional  decision 
and asked for Mr W to provide the necessary investment details.  It also said it would pay the 
amount recommended  for the distress and inconvenience caused. But it said it wasnt  aware 
that it took a payment of £1,124.40 from Mr Ws account in December 2017, so it didnt think 
it should have  to repay that fee. It said if the fee had been taken by another  party then that 
wasnt its responsibility.
Mr W accepted the provisional decision but reiterated that the disputed  fee from 
December 2017  wasnt charged by Alliance  Trust but wouldnt have been deducted from his 
SSAS if the transfer had completed  when  it should  have done.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alliance Trust  has accepted my provisional findings  with the exception  of the refund of the 
SSAS fee that was applied in December 2017.  And having  considered what  both parties 
have said on that issue I see no reason  to change the conclusions I came  to in my 
provisional decision.
Ive seen how he SSAS provider applied certain charges to Mr Ws SSAS.  Charges  were 
applied in February, March and December  2017. Theres no dispute that Mr W had to pay 
those charges  but only while the SSAS  existed. 
In this case Ive said that the transfer  of the existing portfolio   to a new SIPP platform   
should have completed by 30 June  2017.  So I dont think the SSAS should have been in 
force in December 2017 and therefore shouldnt have  been the subject  of any further fees. 
Im aware that these  fees werent levied by Alliance  Trust. But I think  it was Alliance Trust 
that caused the delays  that meant the SSAS  was still being held by Mr W when the fees 
Ref: DRN10436732were due. So it follows that Alliance Trust should compensate Mr W for the fees being 
charged, because  they would have been  avoided if the transfer had completed  when I think  
it should have  done. 
what should  Alliance  Trust  do?
 
To compensate Mr W fairly, Alliance Trust must:
Compare the current value of Mr Ws SIPP with the notional value of the SIPP  if it had been 
invested on 30 June  2017. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there  is a 
loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no 
compensation is payable.
 
If there is a loss, Alliance  Trust  should  pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation  should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If Alliance Trust  is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr W's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alliance Trust deducts income tax from 
the interest,  it should tell Mr W how much  has been taken off. Alliance Trust should give 
Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
In addition Alliance  Trust should refund the charge  of £1,124.40 that was deducted from the 
SSAS by the provider  in December 2017   with the addition of any growth it would have 
made from that date.  This should be paid into the pension plan as above where possible.
Alliance Trust  should  also pay Mr W £450  as it previously suggested  for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him and the disruption to his retirement  planning over 
more than a year. 
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr Ws 
complaint against  Alliance  Trust Savings  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Ref: DRN10436733Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10436734COPY OF THE PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W complains  about  the delays caused by Alliance Trust Savings  Limited (Alliance Trust) over the 
transfer of an existing  portfolio  from his small self-administered scheme  (SSAS).
background
Mr W held a SSAS and a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). In October  2016 his adviser  
recommended that he transferred both plans into a new SIPP on a different platform. The idea was 
that the existing share portfolio and structured products within the plans would  be transferred in-
specie to avoid being out of the market.  All the other assets  were  to be sold and transferred as cash. 
The appropriate funds  within  the SSAS  were  sold on 13 February  2017 and held in cash  ready to be 
transferred. The transfer of assets from the existing SIPP was received one week later.  However,  
there were delays in transferring the shares, in-specie, from the stockbroker account  held with 
Alliance Trust, and after much correspondence  between the parties  the shares werent completely 
transferred until early  2018. Thereafter the cash that had been held following  the sale of SSAS assets 
was then invested into the new SIPP. 
Mr Ws adviser complained  to Alliance Trust about the delay. He said that  because  the assets were 
encashed in early  2017,  theyd been held in cash  for around one year and Mr W had suffered the loss 
of investment growth on the encashed assets over that time. The adviser said either the transfer 
should have completed in full much earlier,  or the assets shouldnt have been encashed until the in-
specie transfer was completed. He said the cash couldnt have  been transferred before the rest of the 
assets as Mr W would  have lost the fixed protection he had in place on his pension.  
Alliance Trust accepted that it had caused  some delays. It explained that it had experienced a large 
volume of transfers  around that time and hadnt completed  the transfer within its service standards of 
90 days. It apologised and offered Mr W £450 for the delays and inconvenience caused by the matter.
But Mr W didnt accept the offer and remained unhappy,  so he brought his complaint to us through his 
adviser, making the following points:
Mr W had lost investment growth on the structured products and Cofunds assets that were 
cashed in but couldnt  be transferred  and reinvested until about  12 months later.
Mr W had incurred  fees with Alliance Trust that wouldnt have been taken if the transfer had 
taken place  when it should  have.
The advisers  fees were based on invested funds not cash, so hed missed out on some of his 
ongoing fees during  the time of the delay.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and said it should be upheld. She said that Alliance  
Trust had accepted  it caused some delays but hadnt  put Mr W back  into the position he would have 
been if it had transferred the funds in a timely  manner.  She said it should  compensate Mr W by 
putting him into the position hed now be in if hed transferred on 12 June 2017. She also said Alliance  
Trust should  refund the fees that Mr Ws SSAS incurred in December 2017. And she said it should  
pay a further £450 for the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused Mr W.
Alliance Trust didnt agree. Firstly it said that the award  of a further £450 was unfair  and it didnt agree 
to that. But it also questioned what cash was being  referred  to in the assessment as it believed the 
transfer was principally in-specie and it wasnt aware of any fees Mr W had incurred  or any 
investment growth hed lost. 
The adjudicator confirmed she hadnt meant to recommend an additional £450 but remained of the 
same view. As no resolution could be found  the case has been passed  to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN10436735my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that an instruction  to transfer the entire holdings  of the SSAS was sent to Alliance Trust on 
22 February 2017. But following  ongoing  communication  Alliance Trust  needed authority to transfer 
which was provided by the existing scheme administrator (of the SSAS) in an email dated 31 March 
2017. So Im satisfied  that at this point Alliance Trust was on notice to transfer and it hadnt raised  any 
queries about missing or incomplete information.
Theres no dispute that the transfer was subsequently delayed  Alliance Trust itself has accepted 
that delays until September 2017 were caused because it was experiencing  a high volume  of work  
and had also relocated offices.   It hasnt offered any further  explanations for the delays. But Alliance 
Trust says as the transfer was principally in-specie then Mr W hasnt suffered any investment  loss 
because of the delay and therefore its offer for the inconvenience hes been caused ought to be 
acceptable. 
Whereas Mr W hasnt  argued he suffered an investment loss on the share  portfolio but that the other 
assets hed had to sell in preparation for transfer to the new SIPP couldnt  be invested until Alliance  
Trust had completed the rest of the (in-specie) transfer.   So he says these assets had to be held in 
cash for an unacceptably long time and could have had investment growth  if Alliance  Trust  hadnt 
delayed the transfer. 
Ive seen evidence of the assets in question being sold and Ive been given an explanation  as to why 
the cash  couldnt  be invested  on its own  thats because it would have been seen by HMRC  as a 
pension contribution and would have negated Mr Ws fixed protection.
So, as Mr W quite clearly  has lost the opportunity for investment growth on his sold assets, and this 
seems to have happened as a result of the delays that Alliance Trust accepts  it was responsible for  
I agree with the adjudicator that Alliance  Trust should put Mr W back  as close to the position he would 
be in now if hed been able to invest the cash into the SIPP  within a reasonable period of time. 
And Ive very carefully considered what a reasonable time frame would  have been. Alliance Trust has 
said that it has a service  standard to complete  transfers within 90 days, and although it hasnt 
provided any evidence to confirm this, that seems  a reasonable period of time in which to complete  
transfers. And Ive also borne in mind, that when Alliance Trust  did start work on the transfer in 
September 2017, it says it completed the process by mid December 2017 which  is around 90 days. 
So I think thats a reasonable expectation  especially  as Alliance Trust hasnt given any evidence to 
show there were further  delays that occurred outside of its control  and the process  was primarily  the 
re-registration of existing assets. There is a suggestion in an email dated 5 May 2017 that a form had 
been completed incorrectly  but this hadnt been brought to anyones attention  despite evidence  of 
numerous chasing and update request emails from the scheme administrator and the adviser.  
And Alliance Trust has said there was delay of 17 days to get a CREST ID from the scheme 
administrator. So I think theres  scope to accept some matters might have required additional  work 
and this would have extended the process, but theres no real evidence to show that Mr Ws transfer 
couldnt have been completed within the 90 period, which would have meant the cash could have 
been invested  by 30 June 2017  if as Ive already  suggested I take the email of 31 March 2017 as a 
starting point  for the transfer.
 
Mr Ws adviser has shown that the structured products that Mr W held matured on 
21 March  and 10 May 2017.  So they too would have been available for investment before 
30 June 2017. 
Ref: DRN10436736Mr W has also complained about a fee of 0.35% that Alliance Trust  charged from the existing  plan 
while he remained invested.  And in December 2017 a fee of £1,124.40 was deducted from the SSAS. 
As Ive said that Alliance  Trust ought  to have completed the transfer in June 2017 then it follows that 
Mr W ought not to have  paid that fee. So I think Alliance Trust should  refund the fee with the addition 
of any investment growth it would have made if it had remained invested according  to the investment 
strategy of the new SIPP, from the date it was actually deducted.
Mr Ws adviser has complained that his ongoing fees were based on the investment within the plan 
and not any additional  cash  that was held.  So he says hes not received the fees he was entitled to. 
But I cant consider any claim for fees from Mr Ws adviser as hes not an eligible complainant here as 
its not his plan. So I wont be asking  Alliance Trust to make any adjustment  for the adviser fees.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably now be 
in if the transfer  had been  completed  in a timely  manner. 
I think  Mr W would have  invested his cash holdings  into his new SIPP  earlier had he been allowed  
that opportunity  and Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable  given Mr W's 
circumstances and objectives.
what should Alliance Trust do?
 
To compensate Mr W fairly, Alliance Trust must:
Compare the current value of Mr Ws SIPP with the notional value of the SIPP if it had been invested 
on 30 June 2017. If the notional value is greater than the actual value,  there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value  is greater than the notional value , no compensation  is 
payable.
 
If there  is a loss, Alliance Trust should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value  by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would  conflict  
with any existing protection  or allowance.
If Alliance Trust  is unable to pay the compensation into Mr W's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr W's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement age, the reduction 
would equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr W would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alliance Trust  deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Alliance Trust  should  give 
Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
In addition Alliance Trust should refund the plan charge  that it deducted in December 2017  with the 
addition of any growth  it would  have  made from that date. This should be paid into the pension  plan as 
above where  possible.
Ref: DRN10436737Also Alliance Trust should pay Mr W £450 as it previously suggested  for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him and the disruption to his retirement planning  over more 
than a year. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  I intend to uphold  Mr Ws complaint  against Alliance Trust Savings  Limited.  
Keith lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1043673