K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Standard Life Assurance  Limited has wrongly taken  fees from his 
Self-Invested  Personal  Pension (SIPP).
background
Mr J opened an Active Money SIPP with Standard Life in January 2018. That application 
was preceded by Mr J having email and telephone exchanges with the company. The funds 
Mr J added to his SIPP came from pension savings with other schemes. Mr J didnt receive 
any advice from Standard Life about the transfer  or the investments he subsequently made.
Standard Life offered  a range of investments through  the SIPP. These were  categorised  into 
three distinct groups;
Level 1  Standard Life Investment Policy  Funds  (also called inner ring investments)
Level 2  SIPPZone mutual funds (middle ring investments)
Level 3  A range  of other investments not included  in levels  1 or 2 (outer ring investments)
Mr J took the maximum allowed amount of a Pension Commencement Lump Sum  (PCLS)  
when he opened  his SIPP. Standard Life was asked by Mr J to invest the remaining funds in 
government backed  fixed term bonds.  Mr J accepts that these investments were correctly 
categorised as level 3 investments by Standard Life.
Standard Life says that in accordance with its terms and conditions  it was entitled  to collect 
three different charges  from Mr J. It collected  £524 in respect of its Yearly  Administration 
Charge. It collected  £62 as a transaction  charge  when one of Mr Js fixed term bonds 
matured and was automatically reinvested  by the provider.  And it collected  £158 as a 
Yearly charge for pension fund withdrawal. 
Mr J says that none of these charges  were  justified. He says that the value of his SIPP 
means that the Yearly Administration Charge should  have been reduced  to nil. He says that 
his fixed term bond was automatically reinvested by the provider so no transactions were  
needed by Standard Life. And he says that he made no withdrawals  from his SIPP  that year 
meaning that no withdrawal charge was due.
Mr Js complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She ultimately concluded  
that the transaction charge and the withdrawal charge had been  clearly set out in the terms 
of conditions applicable to the SIPP. So she didnt  think  Standard  Life had been wrong to 
make those charges.  And although she thought the documentation relating to the Yearly  
Administration Charge  wasnt as clear as it might  have been, she thought that charge had 
been explained to, and accepted by, Mr J on the initial phone call he had with Standard Life. 
So she didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.
Mr J didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt been  resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Ref: DRN18217252In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr J and by Standard Life. Where the evidence  is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities.  In other words I have looked at 
what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide  what 
I think is more likely to have happened.
It seems  to me that there are some aspects of this complaint that arent in dispute.  Mr J 
appears to accept that he was given some information by Standard Life by telephone  before 
he opened his SIPP. And he also appears to have received  a copy  of a document titled 
Your investment choices  and charges. That document sets out what Standard  Life means 
by the different levels of investments, and the charges it will levy for the services that it 
provides. 
At the outset I think I need to be clear  that it isnt appropriate for me to comment on whether 
the charges being levied by Standard Life are value  for money  or some  other  similar 
measure. Standard Life is entitled  to charge whatever it thinks  is commercially  appropriate  
for the services that it provides. But what I do need to consider is whether Mr J was given 
enough information about those charges,  and whether Standard Life has applied its charges 
in line with that information.
Mr J was told about the charges through two different  means. Before opening the SIPP  he 
had a lengthy telephone  call with Standard  Life. As part of that call Standard  Life explained  
the charges that would be payable by Mr J for his SIPP  holding  level 3 investments. It told 
him about an initial administration charge, the yearly administration charge  and the yearly  
withdrawal charge. Mr J said that he was happy with those charges.
The charges  were also set out for Mr J in the Your investment choices and charges 
document that he received. It is that document that Mr J says he relied on when considering 
the charges that he would need to pay, and what he considers forms the basis  on his 
agreement with Standard Life.
I think I should explore  that point a little further. Generally, where a document  is provided to 
a consumer around the same time as a discussion takes place (either by telephone or face 
to face)  I would tend to place a greater  weight on the information  that was provided verbally. 
And where  mistakes are made,  it is usually  in the verbal  information,  so taking that approach  
would often be to the benefit  of the consumer. But here I accept that Mr J says he placed 
some reliance on the written documentation he received as well as what he was told on the 
phone.
I dont think there is any reason to consider that the Yearly charge for pension  fund 
withdrawal hasnt been levied  fairly.  I accept that Mr J says that he hadnt made any 
withdrawals over the charging period.  But looking at the written information  he was given, 
Standard Life says;
This applies each  year if you have chosen pension fund withdrawal (income 
drawdown) and you had investments in level 3 at any time in the previous 12 months. 
The charge  applies  even if youve taken no income  in the previous 12 months.
Mr J had entered into an income  drawdown arrangement since  he had taken a PCLS.  And 
he held investments in level 3. So I think this charge was in line with the information in the 
documentation and what he was told by telephone.
Ref: DRN18217253Mr J appears  to accept that he has agreed to pay Standard Life £62 for each level 3 
investment transaction that he instructs. But he says that he doesnt think  that charge  should 
reasonably apply to an investment that is reinvested  by the provider  without instruction from 
Standard Life. I accept  that is what happened here  the provider  automatically  renewed the 
investment. But Standard  Life has explained it needs to perform some administrative update 
tasks to reflect that renewed investment.  
Ultimately Standard Life says that on its systems  it needs to sell the old investment and 
buy the new one. That ensures that the future  maturity date of Mr Js fixed  term bond is 
correctly reflected on his account and allows for maturity  reminders  and actions to be issued 
at an appropriate  time.  I would agree  with Standard  Life that is exactly  the sort of thing that 
would be covered by a transaction  charge.  So I think it was fair for that charge to be levied 
too.
The final charge that Mr J says was unfairly levied is the Yearly  Administration Charge  
Standard Life charged an amount of £524  in this respect. That amount was explained to Mr J 
when he discussed  the SIPP with Standard Life by telephone. And although  Mr J says that 
the information provided to him was generic,  I have noted that Standard Life described the 
charges as being for yourself  that might  have suggested a degree of personalisation of 
the information that was being  provided.
But Mr J says he relied on the written information  he received about the charge. I think it is 
important that I replicate  below how the information relating to charges for level 3 
investments was shown  in the documentation that Mr J received;
I would tend to agree with Mr J that the information here isnt as clear  as it might be about 
the charges that are due. When  I first read the documentation I shared the same 
interpretation that Standard Life has placed  on it. But our investigator and Mr J have  read it 
differently. And having sought  the opinions of a number of other colleagues it is clear that 
some individuals reading the information might reasonably fail to apply the meaning  that 
Standard Life says was intended.
Mr J suggests that it would be reasonable to think that the information  of paramount 
importance here would be shown in the main  body of the table. And that would suggest that, 
since his overall holdings were greater than £500,000, no yearly charge should be payable. 
But Standard Life says the information in the table needs to be read in conjunction with the 
additional note on the left hand side of the table. That note suggests  that only investments at 
level 1 and level 2 should be considered when calculating the total value of investments. So 
it says that since Mr J didnt hold any level 1 or level 2 investments those  funds were  valued 
under £100,000 and so he should  pay the full £524 per year.
Although I think the information presented here isnt as clear as it might have been, I dont 
think it is reasonable for me to conclude that it directly contradicts the information  that Mr J 
was given by telephone.  I think  the interpretation that Standard  Life has applied  is entirely  
within one of the reasonable interpretations  of its charges description. And it matches  what 
Mr J was specifically told on his telephone call. So I dont think  it would be fair for me to 
decide that Standard  Life has incorrectly applied the charges it previously set out. I dont 
conclude that this charge was unreasonably added either.
Ref: DRN18217254I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr J. In his submissions to us he has 
made reference to how he thinks this matter would be considered under English law. And 
whilst that is of course something that I have taken  into consideration, primarily I am required 
to decide complaints on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable. Should  Mr J 
choose not to accept  my decision he is of course  free to ask for the matter to be considered 
by the Courts.
In summary,  I think the three charges that Standard Life has asked Mr J to pay are fair and 
in line with the information he was given when he opened his SIPP.  It follows that I dont 
uphold the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Standard Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1821725