K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that the whole-of-life policy they have with Sun Life Assurance  
Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited  is no longer providing them with the flexible cover they 
were told it would when  they were  sold it.
background
Mrs B started a whole-of-life policy in 1990 that was then provided by a predecessor 
business. It is a unit-linked plan.  It was initially set up to provide life and critical illness cover,  
and a monthly income protection benefit.  The policy was described as a flexible plan as both 
the amount of cover and level of contributions could be chosen  and these could be altered 
with changing  circumstances over time.
In 1993, Mr B was added to the policy. They chose to remove Mrs Bs income protection in 
1996; but then reinstated this while increasing  the level of life and critical illness cover in 1998. 
The provision of the plan was subsequently taken over by Sun Life of Canada.
In 2018, when Mr and Mrs B wanted to increase their cover they were told that Sun Life of 
Canada no longer offers new business  so it wouldnt  make any amendments to the policy 
that required underwriting,  such as increasing  the cover it provided,  unless this was because  
of a special event like marriage or the birth of a child.
Mr and Mrs B complained that the policy had been sold as being flexible, and that another  
policy wouldnt ever be needed. They  said the policy was no longer  fulfilling  what it was 
supposed to do.
Sun Life of Canada said it no longer offers new business and so couldnt make amendments  
to policies that would require underwriting.  It said it wasnt under any obligation to let 
customers know of this business decision.  
Sun Life of Canada also said the policy offered no contractual rights  to any further  cover  or 
any guarantee of acceptance, and the product  documentation had said that 'Any increase 
shall be subject to the prior agreement of the Company, and that it may  decline to allow an 
increase or only allow it on such terms as it may specify.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. He said 
Mr and Mrs B had been able to take advantage of the flexibility  the policy offered over the 
years, which  was in line with what  they wanted  at the point of sale. He also said the 
amendments they had made would all have  been subject to the policy  terms and conditions,  
and the available evidence didnt suggest  there  was a guarantee that any and all changes  
they may wish to make would be agreed. The investigator thought that Sun Life of Canadas  
decision not to accept new business was a commercial decision it was able to make.   
Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept the investigators findings. They said they had an agreement with 
Sun Life of Canada, and when  they had tried to execute their contractual rights within the 
agreement, these were  refused. They feel that there  should  be an arrangement  to transfer  
the policy to another provider who would underwrite the policy changes,  or they should  be 
compensated for not being able to make  them  as they wish.  
Ref: DRN14658352Mr and Mrs B said that it couldnt be disproved  that the policy had been  mis-sold. They  said 
the policy paperwork promoted flexibility throughout life and so it had been mis-sold if those 
terms were being refused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into consideration all that Mr and Mrs B have said about  why Mrs B started  this 
particular policy; how it was described  and sold to her; and how theyve been able to use the 
flexibility it gave them to adapt the cover  it provides with their changing needs.
Its clear that the adaptability of the policy has been important to them, and I can appreciate 
their strength of feeling about  learning  that this flexibility is no longer there  to allow  them to 
look at their current needs from the policy cover.
Ive looked at the product  brochure theyve provided from when Mrs B first started  the policy.  
And this gives an important notice on the last page: This brochure should be read in 
conjunction with the full product particulars which accompany your personal  illustration. 
Please note that the full range of benefits  described  may be limited  by such  factors  as your 
age, state of health and occupation. Its contents do not override the provisions of any policy, 
a copy of which is available on request 
So the provision  of the full range of benefits  available under that policy  was going  to be 
subject to a number of factors  which would be taken  into account when deciding to 
underwrite, or agree to, any requested changes to those benefits. 
And its this underwriting that Sun Life of Canada  has decided to no longer offer. This 
doesnt mean that it wont continue to provide the cover the policy  currently has for the 
ongoing payment  of the required premiums, but that any changes  to that cover that would 
require underwriting, such as an increase  in the benefits, would no longer be possible unless 
they came  under the definition of a special event.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think this policy was mis-sold  to Mrs B, or Mr B when 
he was later added.  It has provided  them with cover that theyve  been  able to adapt for their 
needs over past years.  I do appreciate that they now arent able to make the changes they 
want, but I dont  think this means that it was mis-sold when the full range of the benefits  and 
flexibility it could give were always subject  to agreement by the insurer. 
From the information Ive seen, the policy terms and conditions  dont give any guarantee that 
any future changes to the benefits would be agreed  even if Sun Life of Canada hadnt  
withdrawn underwriting. The relevant term relating of Variation of Benefits says that any 
increase would be subject to agreement  and that Sun Life of Canada  may decline or allow it 
on terms that it specified.
I fully understand  that Mr and Mrs B may find it more difficult or expensive  to get the cover  
they now want without  this being  as a change to the benefits provided by their whole-of-life 
policy. But I dont think Sun Life of Canada should  be required to compensate  them for this 
in these particular  circumstances.
Ref: DRN14658353my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019. 
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1465835