K822xcomplaint
Mr I is unhappy with how Kensington  Mortgage  Company Limited  has treated him whilst he 
was in arrears on his mortgage.
background
Mr Is mortgage with Kensington was in arrears with no agreed arrangement to pay (ATP). 
Mr I raised a complaint  with Kensington about  how hed been treated, and said some fees 
and charges were  unfair. He also said there was no need for an ATP as he would have 
cleared the arrears in a short time frame, and a field agent visit shouldnt be charged for as 
he cancelled  the visit before it happened.  There was also a question about  an insurance 
charge that Mr I couldnt see had been  refunded.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Kensington reverse two arrears management fees that 
had been charged for months  when Mr I had paid more than his contractual  monthly  
payment, but other than that he didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. Kensington agreed with the 
proposed settlement but Mr I didnt, and so its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ours is an informal  dispute resolution  
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although  
Ive read and considered the whole  file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because  I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Ive reviewed the account history as well as the contact notes and I agree with our 
adjudicator that the arrears management fees already identified and agreed  to by 
Kensington should be reversed. But I dont think Kensington  needs to go any further than 
that with them. Im satisfied any remaining fees were reasonable in the circumstances. I say 
this because they were  charged in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage account and, based  on the conduct of that account,  were applied fairly.
Kensington refunded the insurance charge to the mortgage account in February  2018.  Mr I 
said, in response to our adjudicator saying that was fair, If you also feel in regards to the 
insurance that everything is ok then i as a customer do not. But despite  our adjudicator  
asking Mr I what remaining concerns he has as it seemed a full refund had already been  
made, Mr I hasnt  provided any further  information about that. Having considered  everything  
Im satisfied Kensington refunded the insurance in February 2018  and thats a fair outcome 
for that part of Mr Is complaint and I dont order Kensington to do anything more.
Mr I has said he cancelled the field agent before the visit took place, saying  If as they claim 
I did not contact them  until after the field agents visit, how would I have known  the cost of the 
visit. Ive reviewed everything  and Im satisfied the only recorded contact from Mr I was the 
day after the field agent visited the property.  Its not a case  of inferring Mr I is lying as he has 
said, its simply a matter  that the available evidence unfortunately  doesnt  support his 
recollections of the sequence of events. As to how Mr I would have known the cost of the 
visit, thats easily answered; the costs were all laid out in the letter Kensington sent to him 
(saying that there would  be a visit) a week before the visit took place.
Ref: DRN19272692Unfortunately as Mr I didnt enter into a formal ATP then all the normal arrears management 
work continued. This included calls, texts and letters  being sent to him, as well as arrears  
management fees being charged and field agents  being instructed. I understand why Mr I 
felt he didnt need an ATP, and that was his decision to make, but it wasnt without 
consequences. Kensington is allowed to continue with its normal arrears  management  work  
if a customer doesnt  have a formal ATP in place,  regardless of whether or not the customer  
feels they need one.
I have sympathy for Mr Is situation  as he was having difficulties with his mortgage. 
Kensington has a duty to treat customers facing financial hardship fairly and, in all the 
circumstances, it would  be difficult for me to conclude that it hasnt done so in Mr Is case. 
Ive not seen anything to make me think Kensington didnt treat Mr I fairly. Ive also not seen 
anything that would  lead me to conclude that the level of contact Kensington made or 
actions it undertook was excessive.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint,  but only insofar as Im satisfied Kensington Mortgage Company 
Limited should reverse the arrears management  fees debited  on 1 February 2018 and 
1 April 2018. I make no other  order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1927269