K822xcomplaint
Mr Y complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) says that it wont replace 
his boiler under his home emergency insurance policy. 
background
Mr Y has a home  emergency  policy with RSA. He rang it in July 2018, because he had no 
hot water. An engineer visited, and said that the problem was caused by sludge in the water 
within his boiler. RSA said that he wasnt  covered for any repairs or for a replacement  boiler.  
But Mr Y said that RSA told him that if he got an independent report  which contradicted  what  
RSA said, it would reconsider. So Mr Y got that report, and sent it to RSA. But Mr Y said that 
RSA just sent out another engineer,  who still wouldnt fix it or install a new boiler. Mr Y said 
that the engineers all said different  things  about what  was wrong. 
Mr Y said hed had to pay for a new boiler himself,  and he shouldve  been covered under his 
policy for that. So he wanted RSA to reimburse him. 
Mr Y also said that RSA had been charging  him the wrong amount for his policy.
RSA said that its first engineer had said that there  was sludge  in the boiler,  and that Mr Y 
wasnt covered when thats what  caused a breakdown. The notes  from that visit say that the 
engineer showed this sludge to Mr Y. But Mr Y then got in touch, to say that he didnt think  
this was right, and he got his own report, which didnt find any sludge. So RSA sent 
someone out to give a second opinion. That person said that there  was evidence of heavy 
scaling, sludge,  and signs of corrosion on the boiler. He said that he hadnt fired up the 
boiler, as it would need considerable repairs  before that could  be done. He thought  that the 
boiler was beyond economical repair.  RSAs  letter to Mr Y says its engineer  told Mr Y this.
RSA wrote to Mr Y, and said that he wasnt entitled  to a new boiler.  His boiler was over ten 
years old, and there was a strong  presence of sludge.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that the policy  excluded damage  to 
Mr Ys boiler if that was caused by sludge  or scaling. Both of the engineers RSA had sent 
had found sludge within the system,  so he thought  this exclusion would apply in this case.
Mr Y didnt agree. He said that we shouldve  listened to the conversations  that all three of 
the engineers  involved  in this case had had with RSA. He said that RSA had changed its 
arguments, at sometimes  saying that there was sludge, sometimes  scaling, sometimes  
debris. And none  of the engineers had said that was what caused  the fault. Mr Y said that 
the first engineer  who came out had told him that the fault had happened  because of the 
unusual temperatures  this year.  
Mr Y said that he had been  promised by RSA that it would send another engineer, and hed 
understood that this engineer was going  to do repairs,  but instead  that engineer just said that 
the boiler was beyond  economic repair. 
Mr Y also said that RSA hadnt done  his boiler  service last year. He thought that it had 
violated the terms of his agreement, and he thought that this might  also have contributed to 
the problems hed had with the boiler.
Ref: DRN19447252my first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt  propose  to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
-I looked at whether  Mr Y had been  overcharged  for this policy,  and whether a service 
had been missed. 
-Id seen Mr Ys latest renewal document. That said that Mr Y pays  for his annual policy in 
monthly instalments.  The first instalment was for £22.49,  but the next eleven instalments 
were larger.  They were £33.74. I didnt think  that RSA had been charging Mr Y more 
than he agreed to pay.
-Id also seen RSAs  list of visits to Mr Ys home.  That showed that a service  was done in 
April 2017. I could  see that a scheduled  service in May 2018 was cancelled,  but Mr Ys 
policy ran from January to December,  so RSA still had several months  in which  to 
provide an annual service  of Mr Ys boiler, at the time when  it broke down. So it didnt  
look to me as if RSA had missed  last years  annual service under  Mr Ys policy.
-Next I looked  at what Mr Y said about his boiler. Mr Y said that he expected  the second 
RSA engineer who visited would replace his boiler. But Id checked RSAs  notes on this, 
and I thought it was doing what it had offered to do, which was to reconsider its decision 
about Mr Ys boiler because he had got his own engineers report. I didnt  think  it was 
likely that RSA had offered  to replace the boiler at that point. 
-Mr Y also said RSA shouldve paid for a new boiler for him, if the old one had broken. 
RSA said it didnt  have  to do that, because  of what caused the problem.  It had shown us 
that Mr Ys policy says it doesnt  have to do repairs to damage caused  by or arising from 
sludge, scale and other debris in the central heating  boiler and related pipework. 
-Mr Y said that RSA referred sometimes to sludge, sometimes to scaling, and sometimes  
to debris. He said it didnt seem  to know which was causing the problem. But I thought 
that sludge and scaling are just sorts of debris  that can accumulate in a central heating 
system. And if they, or any other sort of debris, cause damage,  then Mr Ys policy 
wouldnt cover  him for repairs.
-But Mr Y said that RSA hadnt shown that any sludge, scaling or other  debris in his 
central heating system was what actually caused  the breakdown.
-I thought that was probably right. Unfortunately, I didnt think that helped  Mr Y. I said Id 
explain why not.
-I did think that RSA had consistently  said that there was some sort of debris, whether it 
was sludge or scale, circulating in Mr Ys central heating  system. And it had shown us 
that Mr Y wasnt covered for repairs, if the damage was caused by debris.  But I wasnt  
clear that RSA had done enough  to link what had gone wrong  in this case with the 
exclusion that it identified. I didnt think that I could be sure that Mr Ys boiler  broke down 
because of this debris  in the system. For RSA to rely on the exemption  it pointed to, it 
would have to show not just that there was debris  of some sort in the system, but also 
that this was what caused the damage.
Ref: DRN19447253-But Id considered all the evidence, from Mr Y and from RSA,  including the call between  
RSA and its engineer.  And I did think that RSA had established that Mr Ys boiler was, 
whatever the cause  of the breakdown, likely to be beyond  economic repair.  I noted  that 
both RSA and Mr Y said that it couldnt  just be fixed. He needed a new boiler. 
-RSA had shown  us a list of parts  that it knew needed to be replaced. It didnt know if 
those parts alone wouldve made the boiler work. It said the boiler mightve needed more 
work than that. But it had shown us that the list of things that it had initially identified  as 
needing replacement,  already added  up to more than the cost of a new boiler.
-I also noted that Mr Y had actually had a new boiler installed. 
-Mr Ys policy says that a boiler  is beyond economic repair if it wouldve cost more than 
75% of the cost of a new boiler, to fix the old one. I thought that Mr Ys old boiler was 
beyond economic repair. And that meant Mr Y wasnt covered  for repairs  to his boiler.
-Mr Y didnt  want RSA to do repairs. He wanted  a replacement. But I didnt think  I could 
fairly ask RSA to pay for Mr Ys new boiler. Thats  because I didnt think  that Mr Y was 
actually entitled  to a new boiler either,  under the terms  of his policy.
-Mr Ys schedule  for 2018  said that his boiler was ten years old at the time his policy  last 
renewed. If the boiler was newer when it failed, then hed be entitled under his policy  to a 
contribution towards the cost of a new boiler.  If it was very new,  hed be entitled to a 
replacement. But if the boiler  was ten years old or over, then his policy said he wouldnt 
get any contribution  at all towards the cost of a new boiler.  
-I thought Mr Ys boiler was ten years old at the start of the policy year. So he wasnt 
entitled to any contribution  to a new boiler,  under  the policy.  
-I said I didnt think I could uphold  this complaint. I realised  that RSA couldve done more 
to show what had actually caused  the damage  to his boiler. But whatever had caused  it, 
the boiler did seem to be beyond economic repair. So RSA didnt have to fix the old 
boiler. And Mr Ys policy was clear that he wasnt entitled either to a free replacement  
boiler, or to any contribution towards a replacement boiler, because of the age of the 
boiler that broke down. So I didnt think that RSA had to do any more.  
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr Y sent a detailed reply  to our service,  disagreeing  with my decision. RSA didnt reply  to 
the provisional decision, but it responded to our request for further information on the points 
that Mr Y raised.
my second  provisional decision
I looked at the evidence  that Mr Y sent us, asked RSA some further questions.  Then I 
changed my mind. So I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint and explained 
why I now proposed to uphold  it. This is what I said then: 
-Mr Y said that he hadnt been shown sludge  in his boiler, or told this was the cause of 
the breakdown  by the first engineer.  He said that he didnt think this was the problem. In 
my first provisional  decision, I said I didnt think that RSA had done enough to show  that 
sludge had caused  the breakdown  of Mr Ys boiler,  but I said that this didnt help in this 
case, because  I didnt think he was covered for repairs because  of the amount of work 
Ref: DRN19447254needed to the boiler.  And I didnt  then think he was covered for a replacement, because  
of the boilers  age.
-Mr Y said hed never told RSA he needed a new boiler, he just asked  RSA to fix the old 
one. And he repeated  that hed been  told the second engineer RSA sent was going to do 
that. I set out in my provisional decision  that if Mr Ys boiler was, as I thought, beyond 
economic repair, then RSA didnt have  to do repairs. Its only obligation  would be to make 
a payment towards the cost of a new boiler, if this one was less than ten years old at the 
time his policy last renewed.
-Mr Y said it wasnt true that a service was cancelled  in May 2018 or that his boiler  was 
serviced in April 2017. I asked RSA about this, and it sent us the service document  for 
Mr Ys boiler from April 2017. That document made me think  that a service  was carried 
out then. And a 2018 service was cancelled in May, but as Id said in my provisional 
decision, Mr Ys policy ran from January to December, so RSA still had several months  
to do the annual service  on Mr Ys boiler . I understood it didnt do that service,  because 
the boiler wasnt working, and had been  deemed beyond economic repair.
-I didnt think that RSA failed to provide  Mr Y with service appointments, or that missed  
services were likely  to be what  caused  the problem in this case.
-Mr Y said that RSA didnt tell him that his boiler  was more than 10 years and wouldnt be 
covered, either when  he renewed  or as part of this complaint. He said that if that was the 
case then RSA shouldnt have kept taking  his money. 
-I thought, when I wrote my first provisional  decision, that Mr Ys boiler was ten years  old 
at the date of last renewal. I thought that because RSA sent us what  it said was Mr Ys 
last renewal document, which  stated the age of the boiler as ten years.  But Mr Y sent us 
his renewal document from the year before.  That said that his boiler was then eight years 
old at the start of the previous years policy. So there was clearly  a discrepancy. 
-I asked RSA about this, and it said it was sorry about any confusion. It said that Mr Ys 
boiler was actually nine years  and ten months  at the start of his last renewal period. RSA 
didnt explain how it made a mistake about this.  
-RSA didnt think this made any difference. It said that the fault was due to a blockage  
caused by scale  in the heat exchanger, so Mr Y wasnt covered.  But my first provisional 
decision was done on the basis that I didnt think that RSA had established  that it was 
more likely than not that Mr Ys boiler  breakdown was caused  by sludge, scale  or other 
debris. So I thought  it was important to reconsider my previous conclusions  on whether 
Mr Y could  have a contribution towards  the cost of his boiler, once I knew  how old it 
really was.
-The provisions of Mr Ys policy on boiler  replacement say that RSA can replace an 
insured boiler,  if they cant repair it. I thought this included  situations where RSA decided  
that the boiler was beyond economic repair. The policy sets out limits on how much RSA 
will pay for that -
Boiler replacement limits are subject to the age of the boiler at the initial policy 
start date;
If your boiler is less than 7 years old at the initial  policy start date,  we will 
pay up to £2,500 for the boiler  replacement. 
Ref: DRN19447255-The policy also says theres  no cover under this section for 
Boilers 10 years old or over at the initial policy start date or at policy renewal 
date
-I previously  thought that Mr Y couldnt  claim  under this section, because his boiler was 
ten years  old at his last policy  renewal date. But it wasnt,  quite. What Mr Y sent us, and 
the further information wed obtained from RSA, made clear that at the initial policy  start 
date, Mr Ys boiler  was less than seven years old. And at the last policy  renewal date, it 
was less than ten years  old. So, subject  to further argument  from RSA, my revised 
provisional view was that Mr Y was entitled to a contribution of up to £2,500  for a new 
boiler. 
-Mr Y sent us invoices  for £2,190 that he paid for a boiler, and for fitting. There was no 
excess for this section of the policy set out on his renewal  document.  So I said I thought 
that RSA should  pay Mr Y £2,190  to reimburse  him for what  hes paid for a new boiler.
-I hadnt previously awarded  Mr Y any compensation  in this case. That wasnt  because  I 
didnt think that this has been  distressing for him. It was because I didnt think that 
distress was RSAs fault. I didnt  think RSA had done anything wrong. But I now thought 
that RSA did make  a mistake when it turned down  his claim. So I thought  that it should 
pay Mr Y £100 in compensation for the distress  that caused him.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
RSA replied to object. Mr Y didnt  reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
RSA hasnt suggested that Im in any way mistaken  about what  Mr Ys policy entitled him to, 
if his boiler was, as Ive decided, likely  to be beyond economic repair.  It just asked that I 
looked at a picture of scale buildup on Mr Ys boiler. It said it thought  that this was sufficient 
evidence. It didnt agree with my decision, and asked  for it to be reviewed. 
Id like to confirm to RSA that I considered  this picture before I reached  my first provisional  
decision. And Im aware that Mr Ys policy has an exemption for damage caused by or 
arising from sludge, scale and other debris in the central heating boiler and related 
pipework. But as I said in my first provisional  decision, for RSA to rely on that exemption, it 
would have to show not just that there was debris  of some sort in the system, but also that 
this was what caused the damage.  RSA would need to set out why it thinks that the debris in 
Mr Ys system, and the breakdown of his boiler,  are linked. This picture doesnt do that. RSA 
hasnt done that. So I continue to think that RSA isnt able to rely on this exemption  in this 
case. And that, in turn, leads to the conclusions set out above. 
Ill now make  the award I proposed in my second  provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must pay Mr Y £2,190 to cover  
what hes paid for a new boiler,  and £100 in compensation.
Ref: DRN19447256Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1944725