K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service provided  by British Gas Insurance Limited (BG)  under the 
HomeCare4 policy he has with them. He complains that BG didnt carry out an annual 
service and its negligence has contributed  to the damage to his boiler. 
Background
Mr Bs British  Gas HomeCare4 policy started on 29 April 2017. A benefit  of the insurance is 
that BG carries out an annual service. 
Mr B is unhappy that BG failed to carry out his annual service  under the terms of the policy. 
He hadnt received any reminder letters and feels the negligence contributed  to the recent 
breakdown of his boiler. 
When he initially contacted BG to make a complaint, it incorrectly  advised him he could only 
raise a complaint  online. Mr B didnt use a computer,  so was unhappy with its response.  
Mr B complained to BG again. They  looked into the matter and agreed to uphold  his 
complaint. In summary BG said it had made  several  attempts  to contact Mr B to organise a 
first service,  but one wasnt  completed.  As Mr B had missed an annual  service in the last 
contractual term, BG paid him £65. A further  £30 was offered as a gesture of goodwill for 
him not having  received  the reminders and for being incorrectly told hed need to email his 
complaint rather than log it over the phone. 
Mr B remained unhappy  with BGs response  and brought his complaint to our service. 
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint. He thought BG had done what  it was 
required to do, by trying to contact Mr B three times  by letter and once  by telephone to 
arrange his first service.  He didnt find BG responsible for the breakdown of Mr Bs boiler and 
thought the £65 and £30 payments BG had already made were fair and reasonable. 
Mr B disagreed. He said BG shouldve done more to contact him and arrange his service.  He 
hadnt received  any reminders and was very unwell during this period of time. He remains 
unhappy that, in September 2018  his boiler  had stopped working; an engineer attended and 
found a serious  problem  with the heat shield, which couldve led to injury and damage to his 
home. 
As no agreement was reached  the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly Id like to say Im sorry  to hear Mr B has been  unwell and has had what  appears to be 
a difficult couple  of years. I know this will come to him as a disappointment but I agree with 
the investigators conclusions for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN17064882missed annual service
The evidence Ive seen  shows that BG arranged a visit for 24 June 2017 and an engineer  
called to carry out Mr Bs first service. Unfortunately they were  unable to gain access to the 
property. BG spoke to Mr B who said it wasnt a convenient time and Mr B said hed be in 
touch to rearrange. 
A follow up letter was then sent on 6 July 2017,  reminding  Mr B of the importance  of 
checking the safety of every appliance thats covered in his agreement,  and asking Mr B to 
call to reschedule  his first service. 
A further  two reminder letters were sent on 17 July 2017 and 31 July 2017. 
Ive considered the policy documents  that were sent to Mr B in April 2017, along  with his 
welcome letter. The terms and conditions say; 
Well send you or your authorised contact  an email, letter, text message or call you to 
arrange your annual service. Well try to contact you up to three  times.  If we dont hear back 
from you we wont try again and wont refund the cost of the missed annual  service.
The welcome letter says;
If youve  not booked  your service yet, you can book it online at britishgas.co.uk/booking or 
by calling us on 0800 048 1000*.
I cant agree  with Mr B that BG didnt make him aware that hed need  to book his annual  
service. I think it is clear  from these documents that BG have fulfilled what is expected  from 
them contractually. So I dont think BG has treated Mr B unfairly or made errors under the 
terms of the policy. 
Mr B has said the postal service in his area is poor and this may be the reason he didnt 
receive any reminders and was therefore  unaware  he needed to book the service. He has 
also said he was unwell  during that time and BG shouldve done  more. 
Ive seen nothing  which sheds any light on why the letters werent received by Mr B. But a 
failure in postal services  isnt something I can hold BG responsible for. Its not its fault if 
letters, which were correctly addressed, went astray in the post.  
As Ive said before Im sorry to hear Mr B has been  unwell, but I dont think its unreasonable  
to expect Mr B to have  made some effort to book an appointment, or even notify  BG if he 
was unable to, due to ill health.  I cant agree with Mr B that it was for BG to do more than it 
already had. 
fault with boiler
Mr B contacted BG in September 2018,  when he encountered some  problems with his 
boiler. It sent an engineer and the fault was repaired. I understand the engineer informed 
Mr B hed found a problem with the heat shield, which was very worrying for Mr B. Its 
difficult to say how long the fault had been  there or what caused it. So, I cant fairly say this 
couldve been avoided  had a first service  been  completed in the contractual policy year 
29 April 2017 to 28 April 2018. 
Ref: DRN17064883Mr B has said he was extremely concerned  for his home and familys safety; he was told the 
problems with his boiler couldve caused  carbon  monoxide positioning and/or a serious fire. 
I agree  this is very worrying and I can see why Mr B feels so strongly about the potential 
danger his loved ones couldve faced. But Im unable to make  an award for something that 
hasnt happened  or for something Mr B believes couldve happened. 
Mr B mentioned further repair  costs and that he may need  to replace his boiler. I havent 
seen evidence of any costs incurred by Mr B, and without evidence  of loss Im unable  to 
consider this aspect  of his complaint further.
customer service
When Mr B complained to BG about  the poor service hed received, he was told that he 
could only make a complaint by email. BG has agreed it couldve provided a better service 
here. It apologised and in addition to £65 for the missed service, offered £30 as a gesture of 
goodwill, for advising him incorrectly that he could only make a complaint by email and not 
over the phone.  
BG wasnt required to refund the cost of the missed  annual service  the terms and 
conditions explain this. But BG refunded this as a gesture of goodwill. In total Mr B has 
received £95 in compensation  for the service hes been given. Overall,  I believe thats  a fair 
and reasonable amount to compensate Mr B for the problems  hes detailed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1706488