K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about issues  hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from Oodle 
Financial Services Limited  (OFS).
background
In December 2018 Mr R was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement 
with OFS.
Shortly after purchase, Mr R experienced some issues with the car, including  problems with 
the heating system and the stop/start function. There was also a rattling noise.  Mr R reported 
these issues to the supplying dealer and the car was inspected  in January 2019.
Following the inspection, the dealer replaced the thermostat and repositioned the exhaust  
shield. No faults were  found with the stop/start function and the car was returned to Mr R.
Mr R experienced further issues with the car including problems with the rear sensor, a noisy  
clutch and a damaged brake light. He reported these issues to the dealer and obtained  his 
own diagnostic report to show  that there  were  electrical faults. Mr R reported these issues  to 
OFS.
OFS contacted the dealer and provided  it with a  copy of the diagnostic report. The dealer 
said it would  cover the costs of repairs of Mr R booked the car in.
Mr R said he was only prepared to book  the car in if his fuel costs  were covered. OFS said it 
was Mr Rs responsibility to take the car to the dealer.
Mr R was unhappy with this repose and complained to this service.
When our investigator contacted OFS about Mr Rs complaint, it made  an offer to arrange 
collection of the car and cover car hire costs of up to £25 per day whilst  the car was being 
repaired. It also offered  to pay £541.02  (equivalent to three monthly payments) to 
compensate Mr R for any distress  and inconvenience suffered.
The investigator felt that this was a fair offer. Mr R accepted the offer.
Mr R subsequently  contacted this service  again  to advise  that the repairs  hadnt been 
successful and that there were further  issues with the car. He said the car had been returned 
to him in poor condition with scratches and dents on the panels. He said (amongst other 
things) that the heating system  wasnt working again, the engine was making a loud noise 
and the hand brake  wasnt working. He said the battery was below  its recommended 
voltage, the rear sensor wasnt working  properly  and there were intermittent electrical faults.
Our investigator asked  Mr R to provide pictures showing the problems together  with an 
independent report  confirming the faults  with the car.
Mr R provided  some  pictures but he didnt provide an independent  report.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that based on the information available  
he wasnt able to conclude that the car had faults.
Ref: DRN18633702Mr R didnt agree so Ive been asked to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has accepted the offer by OFS for the car to be collected  and repaired at no cost to 
him. So I wont be looking again at Mr Rs original complaint. Instead, Ill look Mr Rs new 
complaint about  the further issues which he says have  arisen  with the car post repair.
Because OFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory  quality. Satisfactory quality is what  a reasonable person  would 
regard as acceptable taking into account  factors  such  as the price paid, fitness for purpose,  
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a 
second hand car, such as that supplied  to Mr R, to have a degree  of wear and tear. So in 
order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault 
with the car as opposed to wear  and tear.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months its 
generally up to the business to put things right. After 6 months its up to the consumer to 
show that there was a fault present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr R has complained about further issues  with the car outside of the first 6 months so its up 
to him to show that these issues are point of supply faults. An expert engineers report  can 
help with deciding  whether a car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I can see 
that Mr R was asked to obtain an independent  report but he hasnt provided one.
Ive therefore  had to determine Mr Rs complaint on the available evidence. In doing  so, Ive 
taken into account  that this is a second  hand  car which  was approximately 6 years old when 
supplied. Ive looked at the concerns which  Mr R has raised. For the most  part, these are 
different issues to those  which he originally complained about.  So in relation to these, I need 
to be satisfied that they were present or developing at the point if supply. To the extent  that 
the issues which Mr R is complaining about  now are the same as the issue  which  he 
complained about before  the car was returned  to the dealer for repairs,  I need  to be satisfied  
that the issues are still present in order to be able to say that the repairs  were unsuccessful.
Ive looked at the information provided by Mr R. As Ive already said,  theres no independent  
report despite one being requested by this service.  Ive looked at the pictures provided by Mr 
R but these arent date stamped so I cant be certain  that they show  that the damage was 
done to the car at the time when  it was repaired.  In relation to most of the issues which  Mr R 
is complaining  about,  I havent been  provided  with sufficient evidence to satisfy me that they 
exist. So on the basis of the information provided,  Im unable  to safely  conclude  that there  
are faults  with the car which render it of unsatisfactory quality  or that the repairs  were 
unsuccessful.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN18633703Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1863370