K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited (Red Sands for 
short) turned down  her claim  under her pet insurance policy.
background
Mrs P has annual  pet insurance  with Red Sands. In December 2017 she made  a claim for 
her vets treatment of her cat in relation to the condition  corneal  sequestrum.
Red Sands  turned down Mrs Ps claim. It said the treatment was for a condition which was a 
pre-existing condition because it said there had been issues with the cats eyes  before. Red 
Sands also applied a policy exclusion for claims related to eyes and resulting conditions 
backdated to the policys  start date. Mrs P has argued the previous eye issues  are unrelated. 
So she came to us.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He said Red Sands wasnt entitled to apply a policy  
exclusion backdated to the policys start date because it hadnt ask Mrs P questions  
appropriately when  she applied for the policy. The treating vets evidence was that the eye 
issues were not linked and so it wasnt  a pre-existing  condition. So the adjudicator said Red 
Sands should  pay the claim,  with interest. Red Sands  didnt agree. Our adjudicator  issued a 
second view explaining his thinking further.  Red Sands still doesnt agree.  So this complaint  
has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Red Sands  and Mrs P dont agree  on some  of the key issues here. So I can only make  my 
decision based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short  I must  decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Having done  so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain  why.
The Red Sands definition of a pre-existing condition includes any condition,  symptom or 
sign of a condition  occurring or existing  in any form and at any time prior to the 
commencement date (which was in January  2016).
Red Sands  points to the cats medical  records which showed nystagmus and tiny anterior 
synechiae in the cats right eye. And as a consequence of this has said the cat had a pre-
existing medical condition and hence this condition needing treatment fell under the 
exclusions in the policy.
The vet treating the cat has provided her expert  position on this matter and this is the only 
expert view provided by any of the parties involved. The vet has said:
please note that the corneal sequestrum is a surface condition of the cornea which is
Unrelated to any anterior synechiae (within the eye) or nystagmus. I attach the case  notes 
from 21, 29 and 30/10/2015  from (another vet practice). Please note on 21/10/15 the
notes comment 'neither will cause any future issues'. (named other vet) who is a veterinary
Ophthalmologist and lecturer  diagnosed Luna's synechia on 29/10/2015  as a much less 
severe example  of the anterior segment dysgenesis "seen in the related cats'. As stated the 
anterior segment dysgenesis and nystagmus are minor congenital issues which have no 
Ref: DRN17281382connection with the current eye claim for corneal sequestrum, nor would be expected to be 
factors in the development  of a corneal sequestrum.  I trust you will therefore reconsider the 
validity of this claim.
Red Sands  have put forward  some arguments  which fall some  way short  of persuading me 
that the condition requiring treatment was a pre-existing  condition. I find this expert comment  
from the vet significantly  more persuasive.  As such on balance Im not persuaded that the 
medical records indicate a pre-existing medical  condition to be in play prior to the 
commencement date. So I think it is unfair  to exclude this claim on this basis.
And as our adjudicator has said, Red Sands was not entitled to apply retrospective  policy  
exclusion with regard  to the eyes and sight generally. It would  only be entitled  to apply a 
retrospective exclusion if it could  show Mrs P hadnt taken care answering its clear  
questions. Red Sands has noted that the pre-existing  condition wasnt divulged  during the 
original sales call, but accepts other conditions were divulged at that time.
But I dont think it is likely  Mrs P thought that involuntary movement of the eye (nystagmus) 
was a pre-existing or ongoing illness. Similarly synechiae is also a rather  minor congenital 
condition which I dont  think  Mrs P ought  to have thought to be pre-existing condition.  So I 
dont think Mrs P has made a qualifying  misrepresentation in the answering  of these 
questions. 
Red Sands  has argued that We feel you are not taking into the consideration that there 
were problems with the eye prior to the onset date of the policy, which if we were  informed 
the "eyes and sight" exclusion would have been  applied to the policy.  But as has been 
explained to Red Sands the onus is on it to ask clear questions. And it has to be shown that 
Mrs P made a qualifying  misrepresentation.  But I dont think she has-so  it cant  apply the 
exclusion.
So I think it is unfair for Red Sands to rely on the retrospectively added exclusion to decline 
the claim.
I dont think Red Sands has treated this claim fairly. Furthermore Red Sands knows  this 
services approach around such cases.  So I think it should have paid the claim when it was 
originally made. And I think it fair that Red Sands  pays interest  on this as Mrs P has already 
paid the vets bills.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  of the date we tell Red 
Sands that Mrs P has accepted  my final decision I direct Red Sands Insurance Company  
(Europe) Limited to:
Pay Mrs Ps 2017  claim regarding this cat, subject  to the policy  limit and excess. Red 
Sands must add interest at the simple rate of 8% from the date she paid the bill to the 
date of settlement;  and
Ref: DRN17281383Remove the retrospective  policy exclusion  for claims  relating  to eyes and resulting 
conditions that it applied to the policy. In saying this Red Sands is entitled  to reapply 
this policy exclusion but only with effect  from the next renewal date after the date of 
claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs P a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1728138