K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Capital  Professional Limited  (trading as Ascot  Lloyd) gave them  unsuitable 
advice in 2017 to switch  their investments from a number of Life Insurance Bonds to an 
Old Mutual Wealth Individual Savings Account (ISA) portfolio.
background
Mr and Mrs T also say as follows:
Their original investments were  made  in 2002, at the time they invested £87,000 and 
by 2017 their investments had increased in value to £150,000. 
They did not solicit the investment  switch.  It was initiated by their Ascot Lloyd adviser 
who said the switch  would be tax efficient for them.
They were initially reluctant to follow the recommendation; they did not have a history  
of paying tax on money withdrawn (within 5% per year) from the original bonds and 
whilst Mr T is a basic rate income  tax payer  Mrs T did/does  not pay income tax; 
previous advice (from the same adviser  and other advisers in the firm, prior to 
Ascot Lloyd taking  over the running  of the firm) was that tax liability was not an issue 
for the original bonds and their tax position has not changed since  the switch;  in 
addition, they were satisfied with the returns from the original bonds; they eventually 
gave in to the recommendation  and proceeded with the switch;  around 12 months 
thereafter they were  dissatisfied with the loss of around £20,000  in their new 
investments.
They do not consider that the switch  was ever suitable and do not consider that it 
was recommended in their interests.  They terminated Ascot Lloyds service in 2019.
Ascot Lloyd says the recommendation was suitable and that Mr and Mrs T took around  three  
months to consider  it before  agreeing  to proceed. It says the recommendation matched their 
objective (to generate income and growth), attitude  to risk and capacity for loss.
Evidence from Ascot Lloyds notes on its review meeting  with Mr and Mrs T in June 2017, 
and its recommendation  report  in the same month,  includes  the following:
The advisers confirmation that the review was unsolicited and was initiated  by him.
Confirmation that Mr and Mrs T were over 70 years old and retired.
Confirmation that there had been  no notable changes in Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances since their original  investments in 2002; they had no dependents, no 
outstanding mortgage  and no debts  or liabilities;  they had a portfolio worth around 
£150,000, a contingency fund of around £5,000, and joint surplus monthly  income of 
around £900; their sources of income  had remained the same  (that is occupational 
and state pensions and investment income), they were  comfortable  with their 
overall circumstances  at the time and did not want to change those circumstances; 
other than discretionary  increases to their pensions, they did not expect any notable  
future changes of circumstances (in terms of income and/or expenditure);  they had a 
Low/Medium  attitude to risk and a Medium  capacity for loss; and their main objective  
was recorded  as being the generation of income and growth in a tax efficient manner.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should be upheld.  
She referred  to Mr and Mrs Ts overall  circumstances  (as summarised  above) and took the 
view that the recommendation was unsuitable for them,  and that it exposed  them  to more  
risk. The investigator proposed redress based on their objectives and attitude to risk.
Ref: DRN14330062Mr and Mrs T accepted this outcome. They raised  a query about  fees associated  with the 
switch and about how Ascot Lloyds service was terminated. The investigator assisted in 
addressing these queries by obtaining  answers  from Ascot Lloyd and by conveying  those  
answers to them.  Ascot  Lloyd disagreed with the investigators view on the complaint  and it 
disputed her finding that the recommendation was too risky for Mr and Mrs T. The matter 
was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I conclude  that 
Ascot Lloyds recommendation of the investment switch to Mr and Mrs T was unsuitable.
I note Mr and Mrs Ts assertion that the recommendation  was not made in their best 
interests. Based on the balance of available  evidence,  I agree. 
Ascot Lloyds own records confirm that it proposed the unsolicited investment review  and 
initiated the investment switch; that Mr and Mrs T did not have a notable change of 
circumstances since their original investments in 2002, they retained broadly the same 
circumstances in their lives in 2017  and they did not expect a notable change of 
circumstances in the future; that they were  retired, without dependents, without debts  (or a 
mortgage) and that the adviser recorded  their happiness  with the circumstances they had 
and their wish not to change those circumstances;  that their original investments were 
performing well, they had a cash  reserve  which they were happy with (and the advisers note 
confirms that they declined  his suggestion  to alter the level of this reserve) and disposable 
monthly income they considered to be adequate  (and the advisers note records that they 
sometimes used this disposable income  for treats such  as weekend holidays).
It appears evident that Mr and Mrs T did not actually have a need for the review or the 
investment switch. Their  lives, in terms of their finances  and investments, were  precisely as 
they wanted and they did not wish to change that. After being initially reluctant, they appear  
to have eventually  taken a leap of faith in Ascot Lloyds recommendation of the switch. Their  
original investments had also been  performing well and they were  satisfied with that. 
Evidence in the recommendation  report supports their assertion that the review and/or 
investment switch was sold to them  on the notion of giving them tax efficient income and 
growth. However, this appears to have been  a redundant objective  also initiated by the 
adviser  given the absence of evidence that their previous position was tax inefficient or 
sufficiently tax inefficient to justify  the costs of the review and/or investment switch. As they 
say, their tax position does not appear to have changed after the investment  switch.
I do not suggest that Ascot Lloyds  recommendation did not include treatment of tax 
implications. It did. The report addressed tax benefits in relation to investment  wrappers  and 
ISAs. I also do not suggest  that such potential tax benefits do not exist. They do. The point is 
that suitability  of an investment (or investment switch) is a subjective matter,  dependent on 
the relevant investor (or potential investor) and, in straightforward terms, Mr and Mrs T 
neither appear  to have had or initiated a tax related objective nor did their circumstances 
(including their history of not paying  tax on the original investments) create  that objective. 
Ref: DRN14330063Overall and on balance  I am persuaded that Mr and Mrs T were recommended  an unsuitable 
and unnecessary investment switch and, as mentioned by the investigator,  the switch 
appears to have altered the level of investment  risk they were exposed  to.
fair compensation
I consider that fair compensation will be to put Mr and Mrs T as close as I can to the position 
they would  probably now be in if they had not been given unsuitable advice  by Ascot  Lloyd. I 
take the view that, but for Ascot Lloyds  recommendation,  they would have behaved 
differently and would  probably not have  changed  their original investments.
To redress Mr and Mrs Ts complaint I agree  with what  the investigator  proposed.  Given  that 
they did not initiate the review and were  unlikely to switch their investments, but for 
Ascot Lloyds recommendation, I also consider that they should  be refunded the fees 
associated with the switch if such fees were paid separately  otherwise, if they were 
deducted from within the investment the performance comparison below should reflect that. I 
am satisfied  that this refund  arises from the upholding of their complaint and from facts 
within the complaint  which, as mentioned  above and as conceded in Ascot  Lloyds own 
records, show that they would not have switched their investments if they were not advised 
to do so. 
what must  Ascot Lloyd do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs T fairly,  Ascot Lloyd must:
Compare the performance of the investment/portfolio they switched to with that of the 
benchmark shown  below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual  
value of the investment. If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation for financial loss is payable.
Ascot Lloyd should also pay interest  as set out below. Income tax may be payable on 
any interest awarded.
Refund the fees directly associated with the investment switch if they were paid 
separately.
Ascot Lloyd should provide details  of the calculation of compensation to Mr and Mrs T 
in a clear and simple  format.
investment status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
The 
investments 
switched 
into Mr and 
Mrs Ts Old 
Mutual 
Wealth  
Portfoliomixedfor half of the investment, the 
Bank of England  average 
return from fixed rate bonds 
and for the other half, the 
FTSE  UK Private Investors  
Income  Total Return Index 
(prior  to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market  
Income Total Return Index)date of 
investmentfor 
investments 
that have been 
surrendered or 
switched, date 
of surrender  or 
switch; for 
investments 
that remain,  
date of 
settlementfor 
investments 
that have been 
surrendered or 
switched,  8% 
simple  per 
year from the 
date of 
surrender or 
switch to the 
date of 
settlement 
Ref: DRN14330064actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid the actual value should be assumed to be zero.  This is 
provided Mr and Mrs T agree to Ascot Lloyd taking ownership of the investment, if they wish 
to. If that is not possible then it may request an undertaking from Mr and Mrs T that they 
repay to Ascot  Lloyd any amount they may receive  from the investment  in future. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Ascot  Lloyd 
should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs Ts original objective and Low/Medium risk profile shows that they wanted 
income and capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index is a mix of diversified 
indices representing  different asset  classes, mainly  UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk 
to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr and Mrs Ts risk profile  was in between, in the sense that they were 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objective. The 50/50 
combination would reasonably put them into that position and it broadly reflects the 
sort of return they could  have  obtained  from investments  suited to their profile.
The refund  of fees, if paid separately, is to reflect evidence that Mr and Mrs T neither 
sought nor required  the investment  switch so such fees would not have been 
incurred, but for the unsuitable  advice  to switch investments.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and I order 
Capital Professional Limited to pay them compensation  as detailed above and to provide 
them with calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2020.
Ref: DRN14330065Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1433006