K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 2000. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mr B says FICL  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr B has said he was charged for PPI he wasnt aware of. But his application form for the 
card has a separate PPI section. And the PPI was added because  Mr B signed a separate 
declaration there to say he wanted the cover. 
Mr B says he only signed this because the salesperson marked  an x next to it. I accept its 
likely the x was put there by the salesperson. And it wouldve drawn Mr Bs attention  to that 
part of the form.  But I dont think this means  its likely Mr B was told or led to believe he had 
to sign that part of the form no matter  what. 
I say this because  it says in that section to only sign if you require the cover. It also indicates 
that signing means payments for the cover will be taken. All this makes me think  it likely 
Mr B thought  about whether he wanted  the cover  before he signed. And I think it likely he 
wouldve known he didnt  have  to sign if he didnt want the cover.
With everything Ive said above  in mind, on balance what I have makes  me think it likely  
FICL made it clear  that Mr B didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt  have  to check the PPI was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr B got the information  he needed to decide if the PPI was 
right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But from what Ive seen I think he chose to take the cover  - so it looks  to me like he 
wanted this type of cover. And from what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time,  he 
wasnt affected by any of the likely  exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. Taking  into account everything  I have, I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Mr B off taking out the cover.
Ive taken into account all Mr Bs points, including what hes said about not being aware the 
PPI was optional.  But, for the reasons Ive given above, what  Ive seen makes me think Mr B 
chose to take the cover knowing he didnt have to. So for these reasons and the others Ive 
given above, these points dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN12251422my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1225142