K822xcomplaint
Miss C is unhappy with Legal  & General Insurance Limiteds (L&G) handling of a subsidence 
claim she made under her buildings insurance  policy.
background 
In January 2017, Miss C noticed some  cracking in her home.  She contacted L&G and it 
appointed a loss adjuster to carry out some tests. The cause of the subsidence was found  to 
be a tree in Miss Cs neighbours  garden. In late 2017 the tree was removed and in early 
2018 Miss C was told that works  would begin to rectify the damage  in her home. 
The repairs  began in April 2018  and were due to be completed  in a few weeks.  Miss C 
quickly began to have  concerns about  L&Gs contractor. She said they didnt attend meetings 
and were generally unprofessional.  Miss C complained the works were not of a satisfactory  
quality and was concerned they were still unfinished  more than two months later. 
L&G offered  £400 in compensation, but Miss C says this doesnt reflect  the time shes  spent 
trying to resolve the claim,  and the stress or loss of earnings shes experienced. She says 
she lost out financially,  as she wasnt able to work while handling the claim. Miss C also said 
she wasnt able to rent a room to a family member for several weeks and couldnt sell cakes 
at a market stall shed already paid for. In total,  she thought L&G should  pay her £10,509.54. 
In order to put things  right, Miss C wants  confirmation the contractor is no longer an 
approved L&G contractor and for a reasonable offer of compensation to be made.
After Miss C referred her complaint to this service, she noticed some of the cracks 
reappeared. L&G agreed to appoint  an independent structural  engineer to inspect Miss Cs 
home. He said the cracking that had appeared was generally minor.  He also said,  some 
repairs carried out needed further  attention as the quality ranged from average to poor. His 
overall conclusion  was that there  was no indication of ongoing  or new subsidence, but minor 
work was needed  to address the two external cracks he identified. 
Following the independent  report, both sides agreed  a schedule of works should be drawn  
up, and a cash settlement offered. Miss C also said, in light of the time that had passed  
since the works started,  she was keen for the schedule of works to be drawn up quickly,  and 
the matter of compensation also needed  to be finalised. 
Our investigator said L&G should  increase  the compensation  it had offered to £600, in 
recognition of the delays in appointing the structural engineer and bringing the claim to a 
close. L&G accepted  his conclusions, but Miss C didnt. She said L&G should have to pay 
her independent experts invoice that the compensation recommended  wasnt sufficient and 
she thought we should take stronger action against  L&G.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has already explained, our role is to decide what we think is a fair and 
reasonable conclusion to a complaint. Its not our place to direct a financial business  to 
remove a contractor from its approved list. I understand Miss Cs feelings about  L&Gs  
Ref: DRN16203552contractor, but Im not directing  L&G to take any action in respect  of this part of her 
complaint. 
Its unfortunately the case subsidence claims can be long running and disruptive. In this 
case, Miss C had to wait the best part of a year for the cause of the subsidence to be 
resolved, before work  could begin  on her home. After this, Miss C waited  a long time for the 
works to be finished,  and I can understand her frustration at these remaining unresolved. So, 
while Ive considered everything  in the file, like the investigator,  Ive focused my findings on 
what I consider to be the central issues. 
Its been agreed how the claim  will be settled. L&G has accepted the findings  of the 
structural engineer. A final scope  of works  was being drawn up, but this isnt part of this 
complaint. If Miss C continues  to have concerns about L&Gs  handling of this part of her 
claim, she can consider  raising this as a separate complaint. My findings  in this decision  are 
focused on what happened to the point our investigator issued his opinion.  
L&G accept  Miss C was given mixed messages regarding the flooring in the snug. It 
eventually agreed  to cover this as part of its cash settlement. It also agreed to pay for 
replacement kitchen blinds, and an air conditioning  unit to keep kitchen cooler while the 
blinds were removed.  I also note it agreed  to pay for the glass  roof panels for the 
conservatory even  though  it doesnt seem there were any agreement these had definitely 
been damaged  by subsidence. Im satisfied,  in taking these steps; Miss C has received more 
under the policy  than she was strictly entitled to. I consider the steps L&G took to be a 
reasonable resolution to this part of her claim.  Im not intending to direct it to take any further 
action in respect of how it settled the claim. 
Ill turn now to the financial losses  Miss C says she incurred as a result of the works 
overrunning and the poor workmanship which she says means  some  need to be done again. 
Miss C is self-employed  and says the handling of the claim impacted her ability  to work.  But 
she hasnt provided  any evidence of work she wasnt able to undertake as a result of this 
matter. So, Im not going to direct L&G to make  a payment in respect of this part of Miss Cs 
claim.
Miss C says she rented a bedroom to family member, who wasnt able to stay with her for 
five weeks, so she lost out on that rental  income.  Like our investigator,  I havent seen any 
evidence of this agreement (which I can understand is informal).  In addition to this, Miss C 
says she paid the pitch fees for a cake stall. However, she said she couldnt  use the stall as 
the kitchen blinds had been  removed, making  the kitchen too hot to bake in. I would have 
expected that Miss C would have been able to show these costs. Without evidence to 
support these, Im not going to direct L&G to reimburse Miss C for either the loss of rent of 
pitch fees.  
Miss C decided to appoint her own independent  expert to help bring the claim to a close. I 
understand she was feeling frustrated by what she perceived to be a lack of action.  Miss C 
told our investigator that she feels L&G ought  to pay her independent experts invoice. 
However, Im not going to direct  L&G to do this. Although its clear Miss C was frustrated and 
was looking for support  to bring this matter to a close,  she told us although she has an 
invoice from her independent expert,  he hasnt asked her to pay this. It was her decision to 
involve him in this matter,  and while I understand why she says she did, Im not going  to 
direct L&G to pay an invoice she hasnt paid. 
Ref: DRN16203553Ill turn now to the compensation out investigator recommended.  Miss C says the amount 
doesnt reflect the stress and worry she experienced. As Ive said, its often the case  
subsidence claims can be long running and can cause frustration and worry. In deciding  
what I think is fair and reasonable, I need  to consider L&Gs  handling of the claim, and the 
impact it had on Miss C in light of the inconvenience she was already experiencing as a 
result of having to make  the claim in the first instance.
Its accepted L&Gs  contractors gave Miss C mixed  messages on a number of occasions  
and didnt turn up to pre-arranged meetings. And there  were  delays on L&Gs part in moving  
the claim towards a conclusion. Ive thought carefully about the compensation recommended 
by our investigator and I think  it is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the upset and 
worry Miss C experienced during the claim.  As a result, Im not intending to direct L&G to 
increase this payment, and I dont think it needs to take any further  action to resolve  
Miss Cs complaint. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I direct Legal  & General Insurance Limited to pay Miss C 
compensation of £600, less any payments its already made.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2020.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1620355