K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains through her representative, that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has declined 
her home insurance for theft. When I refer to AXA, that includes any contractors or firms they 
appointed to handle or process any stage  of Mrs Fs claim, unless otherwise stated.
background
Mrs Fs home  was broken into and she reported the incident to AXA the following day. AXA 
were informed about the damage done  to the property and the jewellery items taken. 
As part of the evaluation process  AXA met with Mrs F in her home  on more than one 
occasion. During the first visit, AXA took photographs of invoices and pictures of Mrs F 
wearing the jewellery  items taken. Mrs F was asked to provide  a full list of all jewellery taken.  
After the first visit, she submitted various receipts and invoices as evidence of ownership 
and purchase prices, to support her claim.  
AXA then realised several issues with one of the receipts:
the name of the jewellers was spelt incorrectly; 
no invoice or VAT numbers were present; 
the invoice  wasnt addressed to anyone;  and
an alteration had been  made to the invoice to add a total, since AXAs first visit.
During the second visit to Mrs F, AXA discussed  these discrepancies. Mrs F provided 
conflicting reasons  for the discrepancies. AXA then visited the jewellers  who told them that 
the invoice presented, wasnt their invoice. They explained that due to the error the printers  
made, in spelling their name incorrectly, the pad it came from was used as scrap  paper for 
customers to use.
After further investigation and conversations with Mrs F, AXA explained that they would 
decline the claim. During this time, Mrs F also had a number of calls with AXA, where  further 
conflicting statements  were made.  And AXA was asked why the undisputed evidence  
couldnt be relied upon and the rest ignored. AXA explained that they couldnt ignore the 
disputed evidence. 
Mrs F raised  a complaint and provided  them  with a handwritten note.  The note stated it was 
from the jewellers. It said the invoice in question was issued by them, and they had issued 
another copy of the invoice. AXA were not satisfied with this as the replacement  invoice had 
also been amended. And Mrs F had provided  no explanation regarding  why the original 
disputed invoice was submitted as evidence when she knew it had been  altered. In doing so 
AXA stated  Mrs F had breached the fraud  condition  of the policy.
Unhappy with this, Mrs F asked us to look into the complaint, explaining she wanted  AXA to 
reconsider their claim  and pay it. One of our investigators explained that he felt AXA had 
carried out a fair investigation. They explained that as Mrs F didnt provide a satisfactory 
explanation for submitting evidence known  to have been altered, AXAs approach  was 
reasonable.
Mrs F disagreed with the investigators findings,  stating  AXAs  accusations were  not true and 
how they reached their conclusion was still unclear. As a result, this complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN16922632my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
AXA has stated that by submitting the invoice with amendments  on it, the fraud  condition  of 
the policy had been breached. This condition states  if the policy holder or their family make  
an exaggerated  or false claim (even in part); AXA may:
declare the policy void from the date the fraudulent act was committed;
not pay any claims which may or may not have been made  on your policy;
recover any previous  claims paid under your policy;
not return any premium; or 
cancel your policy.
Mrs F first told AXA that she hadnt written  on the invoice that had been amended. And that 
the jewellers must have written on it. She provided  this information unprompted by AXAs 
questioning. When  challenged, she then said her daughter may  have jotted the total figure  
on the invoice.  Mrs F then changed this and said her daughter was trying  to help by adding  
the figures up, but unfortunately added it up wrong.  
At no point  did Mrs F say she wasnt aware  the altered  invoice had been  submitted,  so I 
think it is safe to conclude that she was fully aware  of this. Based  on how Mrs F responded 
(unprompted) and the way her explanation  changed,  when questioned, I think it is more  
likely than not that she knew the invoice  had been  altered.  
However, submitting  it in the knowledge  of it having  been altered, is not enough to satisfy the 
fraud condition. There needs to be an intention  to gain a financial advantage. Mrs F had the 
opportunity to explain in the first instance that, as she claims, her daughter had attempted  to 
add the figures  up. And I think  not doing  this until questioned further by AXA, is enough to 
raise significant doubt with regards to the validity  of the subsequent explanation Mrs F 
provided for the altered  invoice. 
Mrs Fs representative  is correct in that it is this one altered invoice that has led to her claim 
being declined.  Her representative  has asked that the disputed invoice be set aside, and all 
the other evidence be considered instead. And she has further stated that, as the invoice 
was initially submitted without having been  altered, this shows no fraud was committed. But 
this isnt necessarily the case, as it is possible Mrs F was trying  to gain financially in that she 
was hoping AXA would pay the total on the invoice. And I think Mrs Fs differing responses 
when she was asked  about the invoice are enough  to for AXA to prove that it is more likely 
than not that she was trying to gain a financial advantage. This means  I think  AXA was 
entitled to find Mrs F had exaggerated her claim and rely on the abovementioned policy term 
to refuse  her whole  claim.  
Mrs F has said no consideration has been  given to the statement provided on behalf of the 
jewellers. AXA has provided a different account  to Mrs F with reference to what  the jewellers  
have said regarding the altered invoice. AXA has maintained that the jewellers  said the 
invoice they showed them, as submitted by Mrs F, was not actually an invoice, but scrap 
paper for customers to use. Their  account  has not changed.
Ref: DRN16922633Mrs Fs representative  initially said the jewellers stated it wasnt their invoice, as they felt 
under pressure by AXA.  They later told AXA the jewellers said they hadnt said anything  to 
AXA about the invoice. This then changed  again,  and Mrs Fs representative stated the 
jewellers said they told AXA it wasnt their usual receipt;  however,  it was theirs.  
Mrs F then produced a handwritten note, which  says its from the jewellers, although its not 
written on headed  paper.  AXA explained they did not consider this to be good  evidence. 
This means  Mrs F has provided three  conflicting accounts when stating what  the jewellers 
told her. And this hasnt helped her case.  Therefore, what she has said about the jewellers  
doesnt alter my view that AXA was entitled  to rely on the abovementioned policy term to 
turn down her claim.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Chantelle Sayles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1692263