K821x#15complaint
Mr G says ICF Financial  Services Limited (ICF) gave him unsuitable advice about 
transferring his occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits into a Self-invested Personal  
Pension (SIPP) and associated investments.
background
Mr G was an active member of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme (ESPS). This was an 
OPS providing defined retirement  and death benefits. At the time of the advice Mr G had 
accrued over 37 years of service in the scheme.
Mr Gs scheme  retirement age (SRA) was 60. While he was still an active  member, he 
accrued further  benefits. It was estimated his annual pension  would be worth about  £20,000  
at the SRA. If Mr G left the scheme and became  a member  with deferred benefits, his pot 
wouldve continued to be increased each year in line with the retail  price index (RPI). If hed 
retired early at 58 the estimate of his annual pension  at that point was just under  £19,000.  
Mr Gs OPS also provided other  benefits  such as in the event of his passing  a spouses 
pension and allowances for dependent children.
In late 2016 Mr G approached ICF for advice  about his OPS  arrangement, seeking  a review 
of the scheme  as his retirement  vehicle. ICF reviewed his circumstances, objectives and risk 
appetite. It provided  him with a first suitability report in December 2016.  In summarising, its 
adviser said:
I have recommended that you transfer  your existing pension  benefits to an alternative 
arrangement for the following reasons -
-You will be able to take a variable  income from your pension.
-[Your wife and child] will receive any unused pension funds on your death. 
-You will be able to take a lump sum from your pension  in a tax efficient manner to 
fund the purchase  of a "buy to let" property.
The adviser  went on to recommend Mr G transfer  his benefits  to a SIPP. And in a second 
suitability report it issued  in June 2017,  ICF made recommendations  about which  SIPP  
provider he should engage and the investments he should make. Mr G was persuaded to 
transfer from his OPS into a Minerva  SIPP  and a selection  of Trustee Investment Plans 
(TIPs). This appears to have been  given effect in the summer of 2017.
A year later Mr G, through his representative, raised various  concerns  about what  had 
happened. In a letter to ICF on 5 July 2018  it said (bolding is my emphasis):
[Mr G] believes that the true cost of running  the pension  was not fully explained. He 
believes that as an unsophisticated  investor with a low capacity for loss and minimal 
knowledge of business  and markets, he should not have  been  transferred into a SIPP . 
[Mr G] does not believe that the initial  fee of £14952 was justified  as he was not given a copy 
of his [transfer value  analysis  report] nor sufficient  information about  the ongoing costs  of the 
SIPP and their effect on investment growth compared to other less expensive  options
ICF rejected  Mr Gs complaint. It said throughout the advice process  it had made him aware 
of the upfront and ongoing fees hed incur under the new arrangements. It said the 
investments made through his SIPP were appropriate for his risk appetite  and objectives.
Ref: DRN10130972When Mr G originally complained to ICF, he didnt  think he could raise the matter  of the 
suitability of the advice because hed spent the tax-free cash  (TFC) and believed  he would 
have to return those  funds if such a complaint were upheld. He says thats why his request  
for redress initially only focussed on the return of the fees hed incurred.
The first adjudicator to consider the case set the scope of her investigation to include  the 
suitability of the advice ICF gave Mr G to transfer  his pension. She recommended his case 
should be upheld.  She didnt think transferring out of his OPS was appropriate.  In particular 
she thought it was unlikely the critical yield required in his new arrangement to match  the 
benefits he was giving  up would be achieved.
ICF were  surprised about the approach taken by the first adjudicator. But in making its case 
it set out in detail  why it felt its advice to Mr G had been sound and suitable.  It also felt the 
adjudicators view had been too narrowly focussed  on arguments around critical yield.
A second adjudicator later addressed some of ICFs wider arguments, but it still disagreed  
with the outcome shed reached. So, Mr Gs complaint has been  passed to me for review. I 
issued my provisional decision last month.
Im grateful  to ICF for providing further information  and arguments  in support of its case. 
Some of this was contextual. And I do understand the points it makes about  the challenges 
of providing financial  advice, not least where  legislation, consumer expectations and 
regulatory requirements are dynamic.  Ive thought carefully about  what its said and where 
its raised points that are material to my consideration  of this case, Ive responded to those  in 
this final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im upholding  Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Ill start by addressing  the scope of this complaint and the adjudicators approach.  This 
Service has an inquisitorial remit to identify the root cause of any complaint. The Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA)  says the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) should 
make rules  for us, which mean that we shouldn't look at a complaint if a consumer hasnt 
communicated its 'substance' to the business.
So, its not about the way Mr G or his representative  expressed his complaint but about what  
the crux or substance of his concern is really about. The DISP rules required ICF to look 
fairly at the 'subject matter', get more information  when it needed to and be both thorough  
and impartial. The rules  also stress it had to look at all the evidence, and the specific 
circumstances of his complaint.  
While Mr Gs complaint  was initially  focussed on seeking recovery  of the fees hed paid, I 
think a straight-forward  reading of his representatives letter  to ICF of 5 July 2018 also 
makes clear  his concerns  about  the appropriateness  of the transfer  of his pension in his 
situation. Ive provided a relevant extract from this letter in the background.
Ref: DRN10130973Considering these matters and the established  approach of this Service, Im satisfied that 
the adjudicators  approach was correct,  we can and should consider the suitability  of the 
advice ICF gave to Mr G. And Im satisfied ICF has also had an opportunity to fully respond  
to his concerns.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Gs case?
The next thing  Ive considered in relation to Mr Gs complaint is the extensive  regulation  
around transactions like those performed  by ICF. The FCA Handbook contains  eleven 
Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental  obligations  firms must adhere  to 
(PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These  include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They provide the overarching framework for regulation  and must always be 
complied with by regulated firms  like ICF. As such,  I need to have regard to them in deciding  
this case.
At the time of the advice ICF gave Mr G, COBS  19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on the transfer  from OPS  schemes  (bolding is my emphasis):
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  to transfer,  convert or opt-out,  a firm should start by 
assuming that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transferto be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transferis in the clients  best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, ICF was required to:
-Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
-Ensure that the comparison  included enough  information for Mr G to be able to make 
an informed decision.
-Give Mr G a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors  that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time. 
-Take reasonable steps  to ensure that Mr G understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal  recommendation.
In simple terms, ICF had to assess  the benefits likely to be paid and options available under 
the OPS and compare this with those available under the proposed  new arrangements  
before it advised  Mr G on what to do.
In giving a personal  recommendation about the transfer, ICF had to inform Mr G about the 
loss of safeguarded benefits  under his OPS  and the consequent transfer of risk from his 
employers scheme to his own SIPP. For example, the potential  for returns  from his new 
personal pension  to fall short of the benefits  he couldve enjoyed in his OPS.
Ref: DRN10130974ICF couldnt  simply regard a rate of return which  might replicate the benefits  being given up 
by Mr G in his OPS as sufficient in itself to make a recommendation to transfer. It had to 
prepare a suitability report including a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its 
recommendation; an analysis of the financial implications to transfer; and a summary of any 
other material information such as the risks involved.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
did ICF adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it in advising on the transfer  of 
funds from Mr Gs OPS  into a SIPP  with Minerva?
In short,  I dont think ICF met the regulatory  requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
The adjudicator placed significant  weight on the transfer value  analysis (TVAS) reports 
obtained by ICF in respect of Mr Gs OPS. An important finding in these was identification  of 
the critical yield  the level of returns his new SIPP would need to achieve in order for the 
transfer from his OPS to match his pension benefits  in his existing arrangement at 
retirement. 
I note that both TVAS  reports  were  delivered after the first suitability report from ICF which 
was dated December 2016. That explains why it failed to give Mr G a full comparison of 
benefits between  his OPS and the proposed new arrangement at that time. 
In responding  to my provisional decision ICF noted it had been unable to obtain accurate 
information from Mr Gs OPS  administrator  until he became  a deferred member. The first 
TVAS report Ive seen  was dated 10 January 2017.  This had been produced with incomplete 
information, for example concerning the full benefits  of Mr Gs OPS.  
The second  TVAS report print date is 10 August 2017. But ICF says that the data on which it 
is based is from May 2017  and that this was available prior to the second suitability report 
dated 2 June 2017. That may be the case,  but as that report  noted:
This report should be read in conjunction with my suitability report dated 12th December 
2016 in which I discussed the reasons behind my recommendation  for you to leave the 
[ESPS]
This report will solely focus on my recommendation for how the monies from your [ESPS] 
will be invested to meet with your financial objectives,  attitude  to risk and your capacity to 
tolerate loss.
Theres a strong argument here that the more thorough TVAS report arrived somewhat after 
the horse had bolted.
Ref: DRN10130975Ive drawn on information from the first TVAS report  which indicated that an annual  return  of 
not less than 11.8% would be required to replace the benefits provided by Mr Gs OPS  at a 
retirement age of 60. This figure wouldve been even higher had he decided  to retire when 
he was 58.
ICFs advice was given during the period when this Service published  'discount  rates' on our 
website for use in loss assessments  where a complaint about a past pension transfer was 
being upheld.  Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when  giving advice, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given  in Mr Gs case.
As stated, the critical yield required to match his OPS at the SRA was 11.8%. This compares 
with an annual discount rate of about  2.8%  per year given it was around  4 years to Mr Gs 
60th birthday. The shortfall is clearly  significant.
The comparable growth rates  this Service used were based  on a typical investment spread 
across shares and bonds. So, its arguable  that if Mr G had a very high appetite for risk, the 
investment portfolio selected in that case mightve had an outside chance  of big returns  
sufficient to make up the gap with the critical yield.
Im not persuaded this was the situation  in Mr Gs case. The aim of the investment strategy 
in the scenario Ive set out wouldve been to exceed  the critical yield to make  the additional 
risk taken worthwhile. And this wouldve been required over a reasonable period of time.
Ive seen an investment  selection tool questionnaire completed with Mr G. Part of the 
purpose of this was to understand  his outlook  on taking risk with investments and his 
capacity for loss. He was assessed as having a conservative attitude to risk:
A conservative investor would look for an investment where the return  could be better than 
from a bank deposit account but accepts that the value of an investment may fall as well as 
rise. They may feel uncomfortable if the investment rose or fell rapidly or by a large  amount.
Mr G was also assessed as having  a low capacity for loss:
Your sensitivity to volatility  is realistic and you recognise that markets  fluctuate; however, 
your investment time horizon and financial circumstances  dictate  that only minor short-term 
volatility can be accepted  within  your portfolio before your standard  of living becomes 
adversely affected
So, based  on ICFs  own analysis at the time,  the transfer of Mr Gs OPS  to a SIPP was 
highly likely  to erode the value of his benefits up to the point of his retirement. This wasnt  
clear from the suitability report it gave to Mr G.
In responding  to the adjudicator, ICF felt that shed placed too much weight on the TVAS  
analysis without looking into Mr Gs broader situation  and requirements.  It also thought the 
use of illustrations of future  cash flows  was more useful to him. It noted what  the FCA had 
said in January 2017:
Ref: DRN10130976Our supervisory work  has revealed that some firms have been  recommending pension  
transfers based solely on whether or not the critical yield is below a certain  rate set by the 
firm for assessing transfers generally. This does not meet  our expectations. We would 
expect the firm to consider the likely returns of the assets in which the clients funds will be 
invested relative to the critical yield. The firms should also consider the personal  
circumstances of the client before making  any personal recommendation, taking into account  
specific other factors as they apply to the client.'
Of course,  for complete regulatory context we shouldnt lose sight of the fact that at the time 
of the advice given by ICF, FCAs guidance was also clear that firms  had to start by 
assuming that a transfer wouldnt be suitable given  the good  benefits provided by most OPS.
Nevertheless, ICFs argument  has some  merit. I think Mr G shouldve  received better  
information about the effect of the transfer from his OPS  on the value of his benefits  up to 
retirement, and beyond.  This was a material consideration.  But I agree with ICF that its 
important to consider  the wider picture and specific circumstances in each case,  which might 
still justify a transfer from an OPS to a new pension arrangement.
In its December 2016 suitability report ICF identified Mr Gs main objectives:
-You would like to ensure that your wifeand  your soncan benefit from your 
pension after your death. You were concerned should you both pass away that there  
would be little left from the [OPS]  for your son, apart from a small  pension  for a few 
years.
-You want access to a higher tax-free lump sum than that available  under the [ESPS] 
rules, which  you will use to purchase  a rental  property.
-You would like to be able to take a variable  income when you retire.
We have some information from the fact-find and other  documents about Mr Gs 
circumstances. At the time of the advice he was 56, his aim was to retire when he was 58 
and his SRA was 60. Mr G was married with one dependent child.  He was employed on a 
good salary and his wife had a part-time job. Mr Gs OPS was his only pension pot. His wife 
had some pension  provision,  although  this wasnt thoroughly assessed.
Mr G and his wife owned their home and didnt have  an outstanding mortgage. Although 
they had £5,000 in savings, they didnt  have any other assets. And they didnt have any 
liabilities. Both he and his wife were recorded as being in generally good  health.
This summary of Mr Gs stated objectives  and circumstances raises  a number of important 
questions about  why he ended up being advised to transfer from his OPS  into the Minerva 
SIPP and investments recommended.
Ref: DRN10130977Considering Mr Gs stated objectives  in the order presented above. First,  he gives  a high 
priority to the benefits his family could receive  in the unfortunate event of his death.  And 
further, the passing of his wife. I understand why people  want  to make  sure their family  is 
properly provided  for in the worst-case scenario, its a natural and strong instinct. ICF have  
provided further insight  about why this mayve  been  at the top of Mr Gs mind.  It told us:
You have to consider  (and we did) the mindset  of Mr G at the time of our discussions. He 
had just experienced a situation where  a colleague of his did actually retire and then pass 
away relatively soon  afterwards and his children  received absolutely  nothing.  We have other 
members on video  discussing this (albeit not Mr G) but it was a situation that Mr G was very 
aware of.
While Mr G understandably  felt the way he did, ICFs role here was to advise him 
dispassionately about the situation he realistically  faced and the implications for him and his 
family. It needed to make  clear the value of the benefits he had already in his OPS,  
compared to what might be available if he transferred. And it had to make clear  to him what  
the risks were with such a course of action.
In its suitability report, I can see that ICF did set out in broad terms the position  on death 
benefits for his OPS  and the arrangement it was recommending. But I find there were 
weaknesses in its approach.
ICF informed Mr G that at the time his OPS provided  for a spouses pension  worth £11,024, 
which would be increased annually in line with RPI. And it said that in the event of his death 
his son wouldnt receive any benefit  from the scheme at all. It then went  on to compare what 
would happen  if Mr G died after transferring  from his OPS:
By transferring your pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension  you would be able to 
ensure that [your wife and son] could benefit  from any unused pension  funds on your death 
using a nomination form.
The problem is that ICF doesnt  appear  to have  identified what  retirement  income Mr and 
Mrs G thought she would need in the event of his passing. I cant  see that it considered  
whether the spouses pension Mrs G would receive  together with her state pension, a small 
personal pension  and benefits from an unquantified  OPS she was a member  of, wouldve 
been sufficient.  Further, ICF didnt set out and explain the capital value Mr Gs SIPP  would 
need to achieve to improve on the spouses  pension  available under his OPS.
Without this information Mr G couldnt  adequately consider whether transferring to alter or 
improve death benefits was worth him losing his OPS  guarantees. In responding to the 
adjudicators view, ICF noted: 
had Mr G remained in the scheme, retired and then passed  away  immediately - the 
scheme would  have paid Mrs G (and her alone) a pension of approximately £10K per 
annum. If you consider  the position  now, following the transfer, in the event of Mr G dying 
now, they have  the remainder of the tax-free  cash (as well as the enjoyment of what it has 
already bought and provided) and in addition, she would get, by my rough calculationsa 
further £550,000 - tax free. I trust that you can agree that there may be a strong motivation 
there? £9000 per annum (spouses pension) + £4 000 per annum until [his son] completes 
his full-time education versus well over £500,000  - that could be taken in any shape or 
proportion that is desired  - and does not depend  death occurring before  [his son] is any 
particular age.
Ref: DRN10130978just adding to the above, whilst [Mr Gs son] is still under  23 and in full time education, he 
would indeed receive a scheme pension should both Mr and Mrs G pass  away, however this 
would be small (around £4000 per annum. I'd estimate and it would only be payable - even if 
Mr G died now - for a short period of time - until at the latest he was 23 (he's 15 now)  but 
only if he was still in full time education.
A very positive effect of the transfer  is that should  Mr and Mrs G pass  away  now,  [Mr Gs 
son] would  be entitled to hundreds of thousands  of pounds which he would never have got 
his hands on had his father remained within the scheme.
There are problems with its response. For example, we have different values for what Mrs 
Gs spouses pension  would be. Perhaps  more telling, we have an acknowledgement that 
actually her son couldve benefitted from Mr Gs OPS.  This is a different position to that set 
out in the suitability report for the transfer in December 2016. 
ICF acknowledges it made a mistake  here and told us the position  wouldve been correctly 
set out shortly afterwards.  But I have  to say it does suggest Mr G wouldnt have been fully 
aware of the benefits available to him from his OPS at the point it provided him with its 
recommendation to transfer.
Putting these matters  to one side, I understand ICFs broad argument here. But Im not 
persuaded by it. Although there was the potential for Mrs G to receive a large lump sum in 
the unhappy circumstances of her husbands passing, the value of this was subject to 
unpredictable investment  performance and charges. Whereas the spouses pension  under 
Mr Gs OPS was guaranteed and unlike, say, drawdown via a SIPP,  didnt carry the risk of 
being exhausted due to longevity and/or investment performance.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mrs Gs preference was to receive a lump sum in the event of 
her husbands  death  instead  of a guaranteed  regular income.  I havent  seen  any evidence of 
an assessment by ICF about what her income  requirements would be. Thats because ICF 
didnt get to the bottom of Mrs Gs situation,  which was necessary given the implications of 
what it was advising Mr G about.
Ive thought about what ICF has said regarding Mr G being able to pass  any unused  pension 
onto his son should he and his wife have died. But again, Im not convinced  this was a likely 
situation and so it shouldnt have added  significant  weight to the case  for it to recommend he 
transfer from the OPS.  
ICF highlighting that his son couldve been  hundreds  of thousands  of pounds better off is to 
focus on a rather  narrow and unlikely outcome. And it doesnt explore  the fact that any funds 
available to Mr and Mrs Gs son, if theyd passed away, would be dependent  on the amount 
of income theyd taken  in their lifetime and the impact of charges and investment 
performance. 
Crucially, lets consider  what  was known about the health of Mr G and his wife. They were 
both in good health. Had there been  any issues Im sure these wouldve been  brought out in 
the discussions with ICF. I think it was ICFs  role to help Mr G understand the risks and 
consequences of placing too much weight  in his retirement planning on the unlikely events of 
his and his wifes passing.
Ref: DRN10130979ICF have confirmed that it did conduct basic longevity calculations on the 19 January 2017. 
So again,  after its first suitability report on the transfer. ICF also said this was a nicety to 
observe and its use was still in its infancy. So, it acknowledged it had got as far as doing  the 
calculations but was probably not making full use of the data.
Interestingly, in a review ICF conducted for Mr G in 2018 about the performance of his SIPP, 
it told him that data from the Office of National  Statistics  suggested a man of his age could 
expect to live until he was 86. And that there was also a 1 in 10 chance hed live to the age 
of 100. I think this sort of data wouldve been helpful as part of the analysis leading to the 
recommendation about whether to transfer  his OPS  or not.
Had there been a residual  concern  about death  before  retirement then ICF couldve explored 
the potential for alternative provisions such as life insurance. Given  their health, its likely this 
couldve been secured for a reasonable premium.
Fundamentally, the main  purpose of a pension  is to provide an income in retirement. Other 
considerations, like death benefits  and inheritance are secondary  to that, particularly given 
Mr and Mrs G were in good health.  His fund was likely to need to support him and/or his wife 
for a long time.
Turning to what was identified as another of Mr Gs objectives  his desire to access  a 
higher tax-free  lump  sum than what was available from his OPS. I can see the fact-find 
summarised what Mr G thought ICF could  help with:
You are a member of the [ESPS]  and you would  like [ICF] to review  this scheme as your 
retirement vehicle. You require a lump sum to purchase an investment property.
In its suitability report from December  2016 ICF records the following about Mr Gs wishes:
You have noted  that under the scheme rules  of your [OPS] that you are entitled to a tax free 
lump sum of £53,182.12. However, you are aware  that should  you transfer the value of this 
plan to a new personal pension arrangement you would be entitled  to 25% of the total Cash  
Equivalent Transfer  Value which  is £174,410.55 (£697,642.20 x 25%). This is significantly 
higher than that available under  the scheme  and this is an important consideration for you 
because you want to use this money  to purchase a buy to let property  within the next twelve 
months.
You will view any rental income  derived from the rental property as a 'bonus'.
I can also see that, months later when  it was providing Mr G with advice about where to 
invest his funds it was in contact with a prospective  investment  manager.  In the client  brief it 
said:
  [Mr  G] wants to use some of his [tax-free  cash]  to purchase a BTL property to provide 
some additional  income  in retirement
Mr G appears  to have had an idea about  wanting a BTL property and he saw maximising  his 
TFC as a way to achieve this. I recognise the situation ICF describes following legislation on 
pension freedoms. The excitement of possibilities being opened  up and consumers who 
were highly motivated  to take advantage. But I think it was ICFs role to provide  the clear  
minded advice and duty of care at this time.
Ref: DRN101309710It was important for ICF to have discerned  Mr Gs motivations,  wants and short-term goals. 
And to assess his longer-term needs and plans. It needed to probe, test and draw  out in an 
active way conflicts and tensions between these, so that he properly understood the 
potential benefits,  risks and implications  of what he was considering.
In responding  to the adjudicators view ICF said (bolding is my emphasis):
from day one he wanted to take advantage of this [TFC] facility and reported as such.  
In the end, we have  to acknowledge that if he did spend a lot of the tax-free cash,  in the 
event, improving his own residential property and then had money  left over, then this 
[was] not ideal and had we believed that he would end up doing that, it may well have 
encouraged us to advise him differently and we may have advised him to strongly 
consider remaining in the scheme .
We can provide evidence of other  work colleagues who have done  this are receiving a 
good rent. We feel the advice check should  deal with the facts and not assumptions or 
opinions after the event. We can see that with the benefit of hindsight this may have 
changed our view but I don't see how you can let this outcome influence your view of the 
contemporary advice.
Id make a number of observations here. ICFs role wasnt to justify or facilitate the transfer 
of Mr Gs OPS  because  at face value  this met his stated  objectives. It had to expose him to 
advice about what would  be in his best interests.  The BTL investment was an element of 
how he was thinking  about his retirement planning. And ICF knew  this. So, it had a 
responsibility to give him clear advice. 
While investing in buy-to-let properties mayve worked out for other colleagues  as asserted 
by ICF, its unclear to me how this is relevant  to Mr Gs circumstances. Certainly,  he wasnt  
an experienced investor. His only experience  at the time of the advice was recorded by ICF 
as being with personal pensions  although of course he didnt have one of those. 
We know Mr G had a conservative  risk appetite. And a low capacity for loss. Ive not seen 
that ICF gave him clear advice about the specific risks associated  with investing in property.  
The proposition for a BTL investment isnt consistent with his risk outlook  or needs and ICF 
shouldve advised  him as such.
Further, Ive not seen that a projected income  stream was incorporated into ICFs  pension  
cashflow forecasts. It seems from the client brief it produced it knew  Mr G wasnt  going to 
spend all of the TFC on a BTL property. So, what was he planning to do with the balance 
and how did this fit into planning for his retirement?
ICF was surprised that Id questioned the reasoning behind Mr Gs investment in a BTL 
property. It said:
ICF have a large mortgage brokerage and we can provide lots of info to show you all sorts 
of reasons why people  decide to buy their first "buy to let" and everyone  is inexperienced 
when they do their first one, obviouslyI  think that it is also worth  pointing out that we do not 
have to take into account a client's attitude to risk when they come and ask us to raise  a 
mortgage for a buy to let as they are buying an asset. 
You seem  to suggest that buying  a tangible  asset such as a house is a high risk investment, 
however we totally disagree with this assumption and I think if you put it [to] the majority of 
the unsophisticated population - what is the more  risky investment:  shares  or a house, I 
know what most people  would say.
Ref: DRN101309711I understand the arguments ICF is making  here. But I think the prospect of buying  a home is 
a very different prospect  to investing  in a BTL property, which is different again from doing 
so as part of a persons pension planning.
As ICF has noted, returns on a BTL property could be both capital and rental. There are 
various ongoing costs  to consider. There are risks associated with markets, including  
uncertain returns, the impact of regulation and liquidity issues.  I think all these things make 
the proposition  higher risk than the OPS  he was transferring out of. And as Ive said, I cant  
see these matters, specific  to Mr Gs plans, were properly drawn out for him.
ICF commented further that:
All we can prove is that this was an objective of which no one is disputing,  I don't see how 
you can pick fault with the notion  given that we did not make the recommendation to buy the 
property nor did we try to talk him out of it, as (i) we didn't  think  that it was our place to and 
(ii) it would be rather in the face of the company's doctrine, being one of the largest buy to let 
brokers in the north  of England to suggest that to invest  in a buy to let was wrong.
Id simply observe it was ICFs duty to advise Mr G what was in his best interests   it was 
very much its place to do that, thats  what he was paying for. And while I appreciate  ICFs 
role as a large  BTL broker,  Im sure it isnt suggesting its role in that regard would in any way 
influence how it approached providing  advice  on pensions, including  the transfer out of 
defined benefit  schemes to enable such activity.
ICFs primary focus had to be Mr Gs personal circumstances with a view to putting  him in 
the best possible position in retirement, with the appropriate income  provision and benefits in 
place long-term. It needed to determine what was in Mr Gs best future  interests, including  
whether giving up valuable benefits under  his OPS was right for him. It needed to advise him 
about ideas he had that, while legitimate aspirations, carried  significant risks to his longer-
term needs and goals.
Ive not seen enough evidence to satisfy me that ICF carried out its role effectively here. It 
says that with the benefit of hindsight  it may have advised Mr G to strongly  consider 
remaining in the OPS. But I dont think it needed hindsight.  
If ICF had been more  rigorous in its approach to exploring and advising on Mr Gs idea about 
investing in a BTL property, its more  likely  than not it wouldve concluded at that point to 
give him a different recommendation. And Ive no reason to think  Mr G wouldnt have taken 
that advice. I think hed most likely  have  relied on the professional guidance he was given 
and so he wouldnt have  transferred out of the OPS.
Turning to the third of Mr Gs objectives  for his retirement planning which  was captured in 
the suitability report from December 2016   that hed like to be able to vary his income when 
he retired. 
Again, theres  a worrying dearth of contemporaneous information on file about Mr Gs 
income requirements in retirement. The relevant section  in the fact-find  was left blank. The 
suitability report simply noted  the following:
Ref: DRN101309712In our discussions, you have confirmed that you would like to retire within the next 2 years, 
when you are aged 58, and you will fund your retirement by taking income from your pension  
until you reach your State Pension age of 66. After this time, it would be your intention to re-
evaluate the amount of income  you are taking from your pension.  You will view any rental 
income derived  from the rental property as a 'bonus'. Your income requirement is an area 
that I would discuss  with you as part of my ongoing service.
What was Mr Gs target income? What was this based  on? Was this realistic?  Why did he 
have a desire to be able to vary his income?  And was his thinking sound?  Could he have 
achieved what he wanted through other  means? Its important to note that by the time he 
was 60 he was guaranteed to receive an income  of nearly  £20,000 a year which  would be 
increased annually  by RPI. So, what  could he hope for from alternative arrangements?
Ive seen a Prudential retirement modeller illustration  dated April 2017. This appears  to have 
worked broadly  on the basis that hed drawn-down the same  income  he wouldve received 
from his OPS until he was 66, when it would  be reduced to take into account receipt of his 
state pension.
Ive not seen a direct  comparison  of the income  he wouldve received from his OPS 
(together with his state pension as that kicked  in) with the proposed SIPP  drawdown 
arrangement.
Ive seen an email exchange between ICF and Mr G from May 2018, where it was seeking 
information from him in advance of one of the first reviews following transfer of his pension.  
Some of the questions it asked him included:
Please can you confirm what your main retirement objectives are, for example, you may 
wish to finish work early or steadily reduce your hours as you approach  retirement, all of 
which can impact on your household income. The minimum amount you would be happy to 
live on in retirement. The amount that you would like to live on in retirement? 
Im surprised ICF wasnt able to find answers  to some of these  basic questions from the 
documents available that supported the transfer  of his pension  from an OPS  to a SIPP just 
months earlier. Mr G responded to ICF as follows:
Further to our conversation I was thinking  about  leaving work September 2019  as things 
have changed.  I would  like to take £25,000  a year to start with and reduce it down to 
£12,000 when  I receive the state pension.  Obviously, I understand the longer I was at work 
the better  it would be for my pot. If this is not possible I would maybe  stop another  year.
The amount we would like to live on in retirement is £20,000, the minimum would be 
£18,000 which is what my pension would have been. At present we dont have  any future 
expenditure. We will not be moving  houseWe dont have any liabilities.
This short response alone seems to demonstrate Mr G had some flexibility around when he 
retired. It suggests hed like to have taken £25,000  a year until his state pension was 
available. But also, that he and his wife would like to live on around  £20,000  a year and as a 
minimum £18,000. Again, this suggests  to me flexibility  and openness to good advice.
Theres nothing to suggest Mr G was unhappy  with his employer or his OPS, such  that he 
needed to take on risk. As we know he had little investment knowledge and experience.  His 
OPS came with no upfront or ongoing  fees unlike the new SIPP  arrangement.  And whereas 
his employer and the government bore most of the risk for his OPS, in the new arrangement  
it was Mr G who was being exposed to investment risk.
Ref: DRN101309713Given the contents of the December 2016 suitability  report, it seems  to me discussions 
about Mr Gs income in retirement  were not as fulsome as they shouldve been.  Although  the 
ability to vary his income is presented  as an important  objective, its difficult to understand 
this in a context where his requirements  havent  come to the fore. I think  its more likely  than 
not it was discussions  about TFC that drove the overall transaction.
Ive separate concerns about the recommendation ICF made  for Mr G to transfer  into a SIPP 
and associated investments. Its rationale  seems disjointed from his retirement  objectives  
and situation.  In justifying its recommendation here it said:
A SIPP will allow  you to exercise substantial control  over the choice of investments held 
under your pension. Whilst you may not use all of the options, you do intend  to invest in a 
broad spectrum of investments and require the flexibility to change  your underlying 
investments in the future without  having to switch providers.
But Mr G had little experience of investments. He had a conservative risk appetite. He had 
low capacity for loss. So, its difficult to understand the rationale ICF provided here. 
ICF did acknowledge  its recommendation for Mr G to invest via several TIPs could sound 
complicated. I think thats right. Taking  into account  his circumstances and experience  I dont 
think he was in a position to make  an informed assessment about the portfolio ICF was 
recommending or properly appreciate  the risks associated with some of the investments. 
There wasnt an effective comparison of the proposed SIPP arrangement  with alternatives. I 
dont think it was sufficient  for ICF to comment that it wasnt possible to access the 
recommended investment  strategy  using other options. Nor was there  clear  information 
about the pros and cons of different ways in which Mr G might take his benefits.  Rather  the 
focus seems to have  been only on a SIPP draw-down arrangement.
To conclude,  I dont find Mr Gs stated objectives  a compelling rationale  for the transfer. And 
while they mayve been  at the forefront of his mind, perhaps stimulated by conversations  in 
his workplace, Id expect  ICF to have informed,  guided and advised Mr G about what  was in 
his best interests.  Rather, it was facilitating what he wanted at the time. 
ICFs advice was highly likely to destroy value in Mr Gs pension  fund,  at least until 
retirement. Ive found some failings in its approach to the advice it provided Mr G. It didnt 
get to grips with his situation. It didnt give appropriate weight to the factors  that were 
important to Mr Gs retirement planning.  It didnt  adequately identify the risks he was taking 
on nor quantify in a straight-forward way the benefits  he was giving up.
putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for ICF Financial  Services  Limited to put Mr G, as 
far as possible, into the position  he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.  I consider  
he wouldve remained in his OPS.  ICF must therefore undertake a redress calculation  in line 
with the regulators  pension review guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
in October 2017.
Ref: DRN101309714This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance  of the decision.
ICF may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain  Mr Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the OPS on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into his pension  if it would conflict  
with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date ICF 
receives notification  of his acceptance  of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
90 days, that it takes ICF to pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90-day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont  apply. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that ICF Financial 
Services Limited pays the balance.
determination and award: I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out 
above. My decision is that ICF Financial Services Limited should pay Mr G the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 plus any interest on the 
balance as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I only require ICF Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr G any interest  as set out above  on the sum of £150,000.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that ICF pays  Mr G the balance plus any interest on the balance as 
set out above.
Ref: DRN101309715If Mr G accepts my determination, the money  award is binding  on ICF Financial Services 
Limited. My recommendation is not binding on ICF Financial Services  Limited.
Its unlikely Mr G can accept my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance  of the 
compensation owing to him after the money  award has been paid. Mr G may want  to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
my decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
I require ICF Financial Services Limited to pay compensation  to him as Ive indicated above.  
It should do so within 28 days  of Mr Gs acceptance  of my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1013097