K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about The Prudential Assurance  Company  Limited (Prudential). He has 
concerns about  the wording of some  of Prudentials paperwork for one of his annuities.
background
Mr L purchased two annuities with Prudential  in 2009 under references ending  410 and 340. 
Prudential reviewed the sale of Mr Ls annuity ending  410 and paid him compensation. At 
the time Prudential also provided Mr L with copies of the original paperwork for his annuity. 
Mr L reviewed  the paperwork and became concerned about the wording used on his pension 
selection form and that a box on his form appeared to have been ticked by someone other 
than himself. The wording  beside the ticked box said:
A SPOUSES PENSION IS NOT  REQUIRED
 I confirm  that I will be single on the date of my retirement and I do not require any pension  
to be payable to a surviving  widow  or civil partner after my death. Please send me a 
quotation for a pension  payable for my lifetime only
WHAT TO DO NOW
To enable  us to pay your pension, or to provide you with further quotations, please return 
this form and the Form of Selection to Prudential in the envelope provided
Mr L contacted Prudential about  what hed discovered and asked for an explanation.  
Prudential responded to Mr Ls concerns and in summary said:
it was confident it hadnt  ticked the box on Mr Ls form (for annuity ending 410) 
indicating hed be single  when  he retired. It could only assume this was ticked in error  
by Mr L when he originally  completed his form
Mr Ls annuity ending  410 was set up in accordance with the option he selected at 
the time.  As Mr Ls annuity  was set up using protected rights funds there was a legal  
requirement to provide  a spouse  pension  where  the policyholder was married  when  
taking benefits.  As Mr L was married he wouldnt have  been  able to take a single life 
annuity and because of this Prudential  hadnt sent him single life annuity quotations
it accepted  there was a discrepancy  on Mr Ls form between the annuity hed 
selected (which included the provision  of a spouse pension)  and the box that had 
also been ticked indicating Mr L was single. So it understood  why Mr L had asked 
why he hadnt  been provided  with single life annuity  quotations
it shouldve asked  Mr L about  the discrepancy  in his form at the time it received it. 
And to apologise for any trouble and upset caused it offered £100 compensation
Mr L remained concerned  about what had happened  and raised a formal complaint. He 
asked Prudential to consider the matter further.
Prudential later sent Mr L its final response to his complaint. It repeated much of what  it had 
said previously and in summary said:
for annuity ending  410 the paperwork issued provided a number of options  for joint 
life annuities
Ref: DRN13010772with protected  rights  there was a requirement, if a person was married when they 
retired, to choose a joint life annuity.  If they were  single  at retirement, Prudential 
could provide single life quotations
annuity ending  410 was set up as a joint life annuity based on the option Mr L 
selected when  he retired. His annuity  was being administered  as a joint life annuity 
and benefits were payable to his spouse or civil partner at the date of his death
the spouses pension  not required tick box allowed a single person to indicate  they 
werent married, in which case Prudential would provide single life quotations. There  
was a legitimate  reason for this tick box option being  included  in its form
the funds used to set up Mr Ls annuity ending 340 were  non-protected rights,  so 
there were a variety  of single and joint life options provided. Because  of this there 
was no need for the spouses pension not required tick box to be included in the 
paperwork it provided
Unhappy with Prudentials  response  Mr L referred his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
she didnt think it was inappropriate that Prudential included  in its pension  selection 
form the option for consumers to notify it if they would be single at retirement  and 
therefore required single life quotations
as Mr L had selected a joint life annuity she couldnt see any reason why Mr L 
wouldve ticked the option for spouses pension not required
she didnt consider Prudential had set up Mr Ls annuity incorrectly
she agreed Prudential  shouldve originally queried the discrepancy  on Mr Ls pension  
selection form and felt its £100 offer of compensation  for this was appropriate
she didnt think Prudential needed to do anything further
Mr L disagreed with our investigator and in summary said:
he still didnt understand why the spouses pension not required tick box was 
included in his application form if protected rights  funds automatically included the 
provision of a spouse pension  
he still didnt understand why if there appeared to be an error in his application form, 
that he hadnt been contacted by Prudential  to resolve the issue
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why, but before I do, I should  emphasise that while  Ive 
taken serious note of the comments made  by both parties, I have limited my response to 
what I consider to be the issues  central  to this complaint.
Its clear to me from Mr Ls submissions  to this service that he has genuine  concerns about  
his Prudential annuity ending 410. The original annuity paperwork Prudential  provided Mr L 
with showed hed selected Option  2:
A cash sum of £7,916.72  and a pension of £1,197.84 each year, payable monthly in 
advance for my lifetime.
Ref: DRN13010773If I should die and leave a surviving  widow or civil partner the pension will reduce by one-half 
and then be payable  for the remaining lifetime of my widow or civil partner  
But the paperwork also indicated  Mr L had selected  the spouses pension  not required 
option.
Mr L doesnt dispute that he selected Option 2 for his annuity but hes certain he didnt  tick 
the spouses pension  not required box on the form.  Naturally he has concerns  about 
whether his annuity was set up correctly in the first place by Prudential and questions why 
his form appears to have  been altered by someone else.  
I completely understand why in the circumstances Mr L is worried, but Id like to reassure  
him that having  carefully reviewed the matter I havent seen anything to suggest his annuity  
hasnt been set up on the correct basis and in line with what  he has confirmed he originally 
wanted. Prudential  has also provided assurances regarding  this. 
I have no reason to doubt Mr L when he says he didnt tick the spouses pension not 
required box on his form. Indeed it wouldnt have made sense for Mr L to tick this box given 
that he was married at the time his annuity was taken. And as the form said,  if Mr L was 
married, he had to select a joint life annuity- there was no other  option. Therefore  the ticking 
of this box by Mr L wouldve been entirely  redundant. But I also cant say with any certainty 
that Prudential  ticked the box on Mr Ls form. Prudential had no reason to do so and indeed  
it set up Mr Ls annuity  on a joint life basis as it was supposed to anyway.
Irrespective of how the box came to be ticked, I think  the key issue here is whether Mr L has 
been materially disadvantaged in any way by the box being  ticked  in error and by Prudential 
not querying the discrepancy on Mr Ls form at the time.
As has already  been explained, because  Mr L was married at the time he took his annuity, 
he had to select an annuity on a joint life basis. Legislation required this provision  at the 
time. The fact that the spouses pension not required box on Mr Ls form was ticked 
wouldnt have altered this. However based  on what Prudentials form says will happen in the 
event this box is ticked (i.e. that single life annuity  quotes will be sent) I can appreciate why 
Mr L is confused  by this and questions why Prudential didnt either send him single life 
quotes or contact  him to query the apparent discrepancy in his form. 
Given the circumstances I wouldve expected  Prudential to have  queried  with Mr L at the 
time the way his form had been filled in. Its unfortunate  this didnt happen. Indeed  Prudential  
accepts this is something it ought  to have dealt with earlier.  Had it done  so, I think Mr L 
couldve avoided the trouble and upset Prudential will have caused him while  hes tried to 
get to the bottom of the matter. In light of this I agree that the £100 compensation Prudential  
has offered Mr L is appropriate  and in line with what Id expect to see in the circumstances. 
Im satisfied this level of award  sufficiently recognises what happened.  I dont consider that 
any further award is warranted because as Ive explained above, Mr L has been receiving 
the annuity hes been entitled to. He hasnt  been materially  disadvantaged by Prudentials 
oversight regarding his form.
Mr L has questioned  why the spouses pension  not required tick box was included in his 
annuity form in the first place. Especially as he says Prudential  already knew  he was married 
at the time he was taking his annuity.  I understand the point Mr L is making here, however I 
dont consider it unreasonable for the tick box to be included in the form. Prudentials  annuity 
Ref: DRN13010774forms werent meant to be specific to Mr Ls situation. The forms were broadly generic and 
intended to cover more  than one set of circumstances- this a common  feature of most 
pension providers retirement benefit  forms. As Mr L seems to understand, the fact he was 
married at the time he chose his annuity  meant  that he had to select a joint life annuity. This 
was determined by the rules  that underpinned protected rights benefits. But if a consumer 
was single at the time they were  taking retirement benefits he/she  wouldve been able to 
select a single life annuity. And thats why the spouses pension not required tick box is 
included in Prudentials  annuity form. 
Aside from failing  to query the discrepancy  in Mr Ls form sooner, I havent been  able to 
conclude Prudential has done anything else wrong  in the way Mr L has suggested. 
From what  Mr L has said in his submissions to this service, I understand his main  motivation 
for raising  the concerns  he has is his fear that widows and widowers may have lost out on 
income based on the inclusion of the spouses pension not required tick box in Prudentials 
annuity form. I dont  doubt  Mr Ls strength of feeling or sincerity  in referring the matter  to this 
service, however as Ive explained I havent found  anything to suggest there is anything  
unusual or unreasonable about  the inclusion of the tick box in Prudentials  annuity form.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.  I leave it to Mr L to decide whether 
he would  now like to accept The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds  offer of £100  
compensation for not querying the discrepancy on his annuity paperwork when it shouldve.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Chillel Bailey 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1301077