K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  about the way Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  Limited handled her landlord 
insurance claim for lost keys. 
background
Ms P had a tenanted property. She lost the keys to the property and, in early  December 
2018, made a claim under  the landlord  insurance  policy she had with Lloyds. During the call 
to Lloyds to notify  the claim,  Ms P first said her tenants had lost their keys. Lloyds told her 
that her policy didnt cover her for keys lost by tenants, only by family members. Ms P said to 
Lloyds that it was her sister that lost the keys.  She said they were in her own bag, which she 
left with her sister who was on the driveway, whilst  she went back  inside the property. She 
said when she came back out, the bag had gone  and her sister  hadnt seen whatd 
happened. 
Lloyds said to Ms P that due to the conflicting information about the circumstances that gave 
rise to the claim, itd have  to be reviewed by its technical team. Ms P was unhappy at how 
long it was taking  to make the claim,  about the questions she was being asked and that the 
claim had been  declined.
Upon review, Lloyds  decided the claim could progress in the normal  manner. It called  Ms P 
to confirm it would progress the claim  subject to her notifying the police about the theft and 
obtaining a crime  reference number (CRN). Ms P told Lloyds she no longer wanted  to 
continue with the claim and that she wanted to cancel her policy.  She said she just wanted 
her complaint about the length  of time taken to make the claims  decision,  and the attitude  of 
Lloyds staff towards her, looked into. 
Lloyds investigated  the complaint but didnt think it had inappropriately  questioned  her to 
establish the circumstances that led to the claim.  It said it was important it understood the 
circumstances before accepting a claim and, due to the inconsistent account Ms P had 
initially given, it was only fair that it made  further  investigations so the correct claim decision 
was reached.  It apologised for any distress and inconvenience caused by its initial  decision 
to decline the claim  and paid her compensation of £25. Lloyds said it would be willing to 
continue with the claim subject to her first obtaining  the CRN.  
Unhappy with the outcome of Lloyds investigation,  Ms P complained  to this service. In 
addition to the complaints she had made to Lloyds Ms P also told us that she thought  the 
policy mayve  been  mis-sold because  shed believed it covered keys lost by tenants but now 
Lloyds was saying  it didnt. Ms P said shed had the policy for 7 years and had never made a 
claim. And she said shed  had to pay £175 to get the locks changed. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Ps complaint  but didnt think Lloyds had treated her unfairly  
or unreasonably.  Ms P disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for her complaint 
to be referred for an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as 
disappointment to Ms P, Im unable  to uphold her complaint. 
Ref: DRN11775592Not all claims presented to an insurer will be valid ones. It is up to an insurer  to check  claims 
made against the policy terms and conditions. Only those that meet the policy  terms will be 
accepted. So when Ms P initially said it was her tenants that lost the keys and then changed 
the circumstances of the loss to an apparent theft of her handbag from the driveway of the 
property, it wasnt unreasonable for Lloyds to want to make  some enquiries in order to 
validate the claim. I appreciate that Ms P thought that process took too long, but I dont think  
it was unfair.  I can see that process  took about  a week  to do. 
I can also see that when  Ms P said that the tenants  caused the loss, Lloyds said the claim 
wasnt covered under  the policy terms. Having reviewed the terms myself,  I agree thats  true. 
Only keys lost by the Ms P (as policy holder) and her family are covered. So I dont think  
Lloyds gave Ms P incorrect  information  based on the circumstances initially presented.  
When Lloyds had reviewed the claim circumstances it said it would progress it providing 
Ms P obtained a CRN from the police. I dont  think that was an unreasonable request either. 
The policy terms detail whats expected of a policyholder  when a claim is made.  They state 
that if a theft occurs, or something is lost away from the home, the police should be informed  
and a police  reference number should  be sought.  
I can see that Lloyds  has said its content to proceed  with the claim upon production  of a 
CRN  so I cant agree that its declined the claim.  I know that Ms P told our investigator  she 
didnt have time to obtain a CRN. I appreciate its an inconvenience to have to do so, but all 
insurance claims, by their very nature, attract a certain degree of inconvenience. Im unable 
to agree though that Lloyds has treated  Ms P unfairly by asking her to report  the theft and 
obtain a CRN  before its willing to progress her claim. 
So I dont  think Lloyds  treated Ms P by telling her initially (when it thought  the tenants had 
lost the keys) that the claim  was declined. Nor do I think  it unfairly  reviewed the claim after 
Ms P said her bag was taken from the driveway  whilst she was in the house. It told her 
relatively quickly after doing so that it would progress the claim if she obtained a CRN from 
the police. Whilst  I appreciate Ms P found  Lloyds questioning frustrating,  I dont think the 
service Ms P received from Lloyds was unreasonable. And I can see that it apologised to 
Ms P for any distress and inconvenience it caused  her by initially saying the claim wasnt  
covered and that it paid her compensation of £25. I think thats  fair in the circumstances. 
Ms P has said that she thinks the policy was mis-sold to her because  it didnt provide cover 
for loss of keys by tenants. Ms P would first need to raise  this complaint with the business 
that sold her the policy  be that a broker or Lloyds itself. Ive got no definitive  information 
about how the policy was sold but I can see that this part of Ms Ps complaint hasnt been 
raised with Lloyds so I cant consider it here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1177559