K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains,  through a claims management company (CMC), that he was given 
unsuitable investment  advice  by Phoenix  Wealth Services  Limited because:
The investments  carried a greater risk than he was made aware  of or was willing to take.
He wasnt made  sufficiently aware of the downsides of the investments.
Too much  was placed in to the recommended fund.
background
Mr W was advised to invest £40,000  with £11,280  being paid into an ISA and 28,720 being 
paid into a General  Investment Account (GIA). The money was placed in the AXA Defensive 
Distribution Fund. Mr W surrendered his ISA in March 2016 for £12,272 but still has the GIA.
Phoenix didnt  uphold the complaint. It said the fund Mr W was invested in was suitable for a 
medium risk investor, as the adviser had established  he was, and that the investment was 
suitable for his needs.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and also thought it shouldnt  be upheld.  He 
noted that the information the CMC had given about  the money for investment coming from 
redundancy and Mr W being  a novice investor  was wrong. He didnt think  investing around  
70% of his available capital  meant Mr W had invested too much and said the advice was 
suitable based on Mr Ws experience, attitude to risk and objectives.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicator. In short it made the following points.
With regard to Mr Ws experience, apart  from the with profit  bond  he surrendered, all 
his money was in cash.
The fact find shows he had surrendered the bond because stocks  and shares  had 
generally risen but his bond hadnt and he wanted a local company to manage his 
investments.
Given this, why was he invested  in a fund with over 50% equities  and that wouldnt 
be managed locally?
It still feels it was clear  Mr W was going to retire sooner rather  than later based on 
what is stated in the fact find.
The amount  invested  was too much and although the fund had a mix of investments 
it was managed by one fund manager  so lacked diversification.
Mr W had only invested in cash and low risk investments previously so for him to 
increase his risk exposure months before  retirement seems unusual.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is worth pointing  out that my findings  and decision are based on a balance of probabilities 
 what is more likely than not. So I am not saying definitely what  did or didnt happen but 
what I think is more likely  than not to have happened based on the evidence  I have seen.
Ref: DRN13871142With that in mind I note there are significant  differences between what the CMC said in its 
initial complaint letter  on behalf of Mr W and what is recorded in the fact find. Given  the fact 
find was a document completed at the time of advice in 2012 I think  it is more likely than not 
to show what the adviser  was told by Mr W and what was discussed.
The CMC has said that the money  for the investment came from a redundancy payment but 
the fact find and suitability letter show clearly that the money came from surrender of a with 
profits bond  with a small amount from savings. It is also very clear  that Mr W was employed 
at the time and had been with the same employer  for around nine years. So what the CMC 
said is clearly  wrong.
 
It also suggested that Mr W was a novice investor  although it now accepts that he did have  
some previous experience in low risk investments.
I agree  with the CMC that retirement was something that Mr W was thinking  about. He was 
65 when he saw the adviser and there  are various  indications that retirement  was a 
possibility in the near future. But I think the adviser took account of this anyway and I dont 
think it made his advice unsuitable.
Mr W told the adviser that he may be retiring later that year but that he hadnt decided.  There  
is then reference  to him expecting a change in income in the foreseeable future and the 
adviser calculated  his income based  on both what he was currently  earning as well as what  
he would  get after retirement  which showed  he was still left with a reasonable amount of 
net disposable income each month  even  after he stopped  working.
Almost all the money he invested  came from a previous investment he had held for nine 
years. The fact find records that he told the adviser  he didnt have any need  to access  this 
money in the short  term and I think  it is clear this was the case  whether or not he was 
retired. Given this money  had been  tied up in a previous investment for nine years, he didnt 
need access to the money, and had more  than sufficient net income both pre and post 
retirement, I dont think the amount invested was too much  of his available  capital.
He was left with around £5,000 of his capital for emergencies  with a further £11,000 in what 
was called a reserve  pot  this money was invested but due to mature in November 2013 
after which he could access it if he needed  it. There is nothing to indicate that he was going  
to have any significant expenditure - over and above  his normal outgoings - in the 
foreseeable future. And I think the amount he held outside his investment was sufficient for 
any unexpected  expense that might  arise.
The CMC have questioned Mr W being placed in an investment which had around 50% 
exposure to equities  given  he said he surrendered his bond  because he was unhappy that it 
hadnt risen in value when  stocks  and shares  were generally rising.  But what Mr W said isnt 
an argument for saying  he shouldnt have  been exposed to equities but I think an argument 
he should be invested in equities, given stocks and shares were rising  in value.
Mr W was identified as a medium  risk investor. I acknowledge the CMCs comment about it 
being unusual  for someone to increase their risk exposure close to retirement.  But although 
generally people  may tend to take less risk as they get older, and in particular after they 
retire, this doesnt mean everyone in that situation  is a low risk investor.  The investment risk 
profile indicated  Mr W wanted his money  to make something in real terms  so over and 
above inflation  which is why he didnt  want to invest  with a lower  risk.
Ref: DRN13871143His objectives were identified as being  for the money to be available to him in the future  
and there  is an indication this is longer than 10 years  and for it to grow  in value in real 
terms. There is reference to the high rate of inflation, so this seems to have been  a particular 
concern for Mr W - I note that inflation had been  over 4% for the previous year and had 
reached a high of 5% at one point, although rates had dropped  in the first part of 2012. 
Im not persuaded on the evidence I have seen that the investment was too risky for Mr W. I 
think it is clear  he wanted to invest over the medium to long term and that he wanted  to 
invest so that he could get a return in real terms. Given the high inflation  rate in the year 
before he invested,  and his obvious  concern about  the impact  of inflation, I think a medium  
risk investment was suitable for him.
I note one of the reasons Mr W surrendered  his bond was because he wanted local 
management of his investment. But Im not satisfied this was such a significant issue and Im 
not persuaded that the fact the recommended fund wasnt  locally managed  means the 
investment is unsuitable for him - it isnt clear that there was such an investment available 
anyway. I think it is more  likely than not Mr W was well aware his investment wouldnt  be 
manged locally and was happy  to go ahead with it on that basis.
Although all the money was paid into one fund with one fund manager Im not persuaded this 
meant the investment lacked diversification.  As the CMC has pointed out the fund invested 
in a range  of asset classes and I dont  think it was necessary to split what was a relatively 
small investment into different funds just because there was only one fund manager. .
In summary  I think the recommended  investments were suitable for Mr Ws risk appetite and 
his objectives  and that he understood the risks and was prepared to accept these and was in 
a financial position  to take those  risks.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1387114