K820x#14Complaint
Mr W, in his capacity as trustee of a family  Trust, complains that Zurich  Assurance Ltd 
refused to accept a Deed of Appointment  in connection with an investment bond held by the 
Trust.
Background
The family Trust was set up in 1998  by the late Mrs F. Mr W was one of three  trustees, 
including the late Mrs F.
When Mrs F passed  away in 2010,  the proceeds  of her estate were paid into the Trust. The 
money was invested  by Mr W and the other  trustee through an adviser firm. An investment 
bond was set up with Zurich Assurance  Ltd  which was using  a different trading name. But 
for ease,  Ill refer to Zurich  throughout.
In December 2018, the other trustee  sadly passed  away. A supplementary Deed of 
Appointment was drawn  up to appoint new trustees, and this was sent to Zurich.  Zurich 
responded, saying  it required sight of the original, or an originally certified copy of the Trust 
Deed, as well as confirmation of the new trustees  identity.
Mr W sent Zurich  a certified copy of the original Trust Deed. However,  it said it couldnt 
accept this as it didnt meet their certification requirements.
Mr W complained.  He thought it was unreasonable for Zurich not to accept the copy of the 
Trust Deed, which had been certified  as a true copy in 2011  when the bond  had been  set up. 
Mr W said other major  financial institutions had accepted  this copy  and it would cost him 
money to have the Trust Deed certified  again.  He explained that the certified copy he had 
bears the official stamp of the solicitor who drew up the Deed and that once  made, Trust 
Deeds do not change.  Mr W added that Zurich should have received a certified copy of the 
Trust Deed in 2011, when the bond  was set up by the adviser  firm.
Zurich maintained the certification requirements were fair and were  in place to protect it and 
its customers. Mr W referred  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought Zurich was entitled  to set out its 
own certification requirements and he didnt think these  were unreasonable.  He also said 
Zurich had requested  a copy  of the Trust Deed  in 2011 from the adviser, but this hadnt been 
provided. The investigator didnt think Zurich needed  to follow  this up as it didnt need it to 
set up the bond.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to provide a final decision.  He said a 
number of other financial institutions  had accepted  the copy  of the Trust Deed certified in 
2011 and it was unreasonable for Zurich to reject it and cause him extra cost.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
Ref: DRN17337652Zurich has explained  that certification of an original  document must meet  the following 
requirements:
The person  who certifies  the copy (the certifier)  must clearly  write or stamp in original wet 
ink directly onto the copy (not on to a label that is attached to the copy) the following 
wording:
I certify that this is a true copy of the original and any photograph bears a true likened to the 
person being identified.
The certifier  must then clearly write their name, business name and business  address, 
contact telephone number and position/job  title. They must then sign their name, and
clearly write the date.  If the copy comprises more than one page only the first page  needs to 
be certified.
Zurich also added that the copy needed to have been certified  in the last 12 months.
Zurich didnt accept  the certified  copy of the Trust Deed Mr W provided  because it didnt 
meet any of these requirements. Having reviewed the copy provided, I agree that it didnt  
meet any of the requirements specified.  The person  who certified the copy  hadnt signed or 
printed their name, different wording had been used and it wasnt dated  within  the last 
12 months. If only one of the requirements hadnt been met, I wouldve expected  Zurich  to 
be flexible. But as it didnt  meet any of the specific requirements, I think it was fair for Zurich  
not to accept this document.
I appreciate Mr W finds this frustrating and it ultimately means he will need to have a new 
copy of the Trust Deed certified, which will come at a cost. However, I dont think Zurichs 
requirements are unreasonable. Zurich has explained that in its experience,  copies of such  
documents are easier to forge. So, to protect itself and customers, it requires documents  to 
be certified as above. 
Mr W also feels Zurichs requirements  are excessive, particularly as other financial 
institutions have  recently  accepted the copy certified  in 2011 without question. But each 
business is entitled to set its own procedures  for document certification. And I dont  think 
Zurichs procedure is particularly onerous  or out of step with document certification 
requirements generally. For example, guidance  on www.gov.uk explains that when  certifying 
a document, the following wording should  be used:
Certified to be a true copy of the original seen by me.
It also says the person  certifying the document should sign,  date, print their name and 
occupation. Both of these  requirements are consistent with Zurichs requirements.
Mr W has said that Zurich shouldve already had a copy of the Trust Deed in its possession 
from 2011. He says this was provided to the adviser to pass  on. Ive seen evidence showing 
that Zurich wrote to the adviser on 7 December 2011 asking to see the original Trust Deed 
or a certified copy of it to allow it to settle future  claims quickly. It doesnt  appear Zurich 
received a response.
Mr W questions  why Zurich didnt chase  this or ask him to provide the document.  However, I 
wouldnt have expected Zurich to chase  this. It didnt require sight  of the Trust Deed to 
establish the bond, it simply asked for it so it could more easily  settle future claims. I also 
Ref: DRN17337653wouldnt have expected it to ask Mr W for a copy as it was dealing  with the adviser rather  
than Mr W. I think Zurich did enough  at the time by asking the adviser,  through which  the 
Trust applied for the bond, for a copy of the Trust Deed.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr W, on behalf  of the 
Trust, to accept or reject my decision before 27 September  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1733765