K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the impact TSB Bank  plcs IT issues had on him.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in May 2019 explaining  why I intended to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint in part. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of my 
final decision.
I asked both Mr B and TSB to provide me with any further evidence and comments  they 
would like me to consider  before I issued a final decision.
Mr B disagreed with my provisional decision. TSB havent provided anything further directly 
to this service in response to my provisional decision. However, on receipt  of my provisional  
decision, Mr B went back to TSB for them to investigate the issues he had raised.  TSB 
responded to Mr B in a letter dated  23 May 2019  and in doing so they said that they 
incorrectly informed this service that Mr B refused to enter into a payment plan. As 
compensation for their error, TSB offered Mr B a further £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him. They also said they would remove the £232.92  debt that was 
outstanding on his account  and would amend Mr Bs credit file going back  to September  
2018 so that adverse information  wouldnt  be reflected  on Mr Bs account from September 
2018 onwards.  
However, Mr B remains unhappy about the fact that his account  was sent to collections and 
then to recoveries  when he had a complaint ongoing  with TSB and this service.   He says this 
should never have  happened and TSBs departments should have communicated between  
themselves to understand what was happening  with his account.  Mr B has explained the 
impact TSBs actions have had on his credit with another  provider, his Trust Deed and his 
health.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I still havent seen any evidence which makes me think that the adverse  impact 
on Mr Bs credit facility with Safety Net credit and on Mr Bs Trust Deed was because  of an 
error on TSBs part. Mr B faced issues because his account went  overdrawn. He thinks  its 
because of TSB that his account  went overdrawn. However, as I have set out in my 
provisional decision, I dont think it was TSBs fault that Mr Bs account went overdrawn.  I 
dont seek to repeat the reasons here as they are fully set out in my provisional  decision 
which is attached.
In my provisional decision,  I said I didnt think TSB were wrong to send Mr Bs account to 
collections and recoveries  despite there  being an ongoing complaint. Ive looked at whether  
theres any new information which might now lead me to a different conclusion  to that in my 
provisional decision. However, I havent  seen anything which  changes  my mind. I will now 
explain why.
TSB, in their letter to Mr B dated 23 May 2019, say there was no bank error on their part and 
that Mr B had not made  payments into the account  from the end of September  2018. So 
Ref: DRN17213682TSB say they followed their processes correctly in sending the account to collections and 
then recoveries. However, they say that they incorrectly  communicated  to this service that 
Mr B had refused  to enter into a payment  plan.  This is the reason they have offered Mr B the 
compensation as set out above.  They  say this information was incorrectly  passed on to us 
by the complaint handler based  on information  incorrectly logged by their collections advisor. 
I cant see a call log where TSB have noted specifically that Mr B refused to enter into a 
payment plan. I can see a call note from 30 January 2019 where Mr B had spoken to TSB 
and its recorded  there  that he wouldnt be making  any payments. This is what I referred  to in 
my provisional decision. It seems  that this is the call note TSB are referring to - as refusing 
to make payments  and not entering  a payment plan could be interpreted  as amounting to the 
same thing. 
In any event, it appears Mr B didnt  say he would refuse to make  payments during this call. 
TSB have  accepted  they incorrectly logged the contents of the call and I dont seek  to 
interfere with the resolution TSB have offered Mr B as a result of what they have concluded 
was a miscommunication to this service. I think that was a fair and reasonable offer. What I 
need to consider is whether the incorrect information  has any bearing  on the outcome 
reached in my provisional decision, in particular  Mr Bs point that his account should  never  
have been moved  to recoveries while his complaint was ongoing. I dont think  it does.
I appreciate that Mr B strongly disagrees with TSB sending his account  to recoveries while  
the complaint  was ongoing and I accept there  may be circumstances in which this wouldnt 
be the right thing to do. However,  in the particular circumstances of this case, as I dont think  
it was TSBs fault that Mr Bs account went overdrawn, I dont think  it was wrong  for TSB to 
follow their processes in sending the account  to collections and then to recoveries. The 
amount was legitimately  owed and Mr B made no payments into the account  from the end of 
September 2018. 
Mr B has told us he made contact with TSB in October 2018, however, there is nothing to 
indicate that Mr B reached any agreement with them about making payments into the 
account. And although TSB accept they incorrectly conveyed information  to this service  
about Mr B refusing  to enter into a payment plan, this appears  to be based  on a call which  
took place in January 2019   this was after the account was sent to recoveries. So TSBs 
passing on incorrect information about Mr B refusing to make payments after the account 
was sent to recoveries doesnt  mean  that they were  wrong to send it to recoveries when they 
did as it is clear from the evidence available that no payments had been made and theres 
no evidence this had been agreed  between Mr B and TSB. So, although, as I have  said in 
my provisional decision, TSB could have communicated it better  to Mr B that they could 
send his account to collections and recoveries,  despite an ongoing complaint, I dont think  
they were wrong  in sending the account  to collections and subsequently recoveries when no 
payments were being made to reduce  the debt. 
Given the above, I dont see any reason to depart from the findings as set out in my 
provisional decision. I also note that in relation to his complaints Mr B will have  received in 
total £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience (£100 in August 2018, £150 in 
February 2019 and a further £250) and TSB have agreed to remove his existing debt as well 
as correct his credit  file. I wouldnt have  expected  TSB to do any more in any event.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint  in part as set out in my provisional decision. But I dont require 
TSB Bank plc to do anything further  given  the payments already made and their most recent 
Ref: DRN17213683offer in their letter dated 23 May 2019 which I consider is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this particular case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN17213684copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains about the impact TSB Bank plcs IT issues had on him.
background 
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced  IT problems. As a result of these  problems,  Mr B says that 
around 20 transactions for fuel which had taken place  over the space of a couple of months debited  
his account at the same  time. Mr B says he repeatedly  told TSB that the transactions werent being 
reflected on his account as they happened.  He also provided them with proof (receipts, £1 
authorisation on his mobile app) when they didnt  believe  what he was saying. Mr B was concerned 
about the payments all leaving his account at the same time because of his difficult  financial situation. 
He says TSB told him this wouldnt happen. However, Mr B says this is what  ended up happening  and 
as a result of these transactions all going out at once  Mr B says his account ended  up being 
overdrawn.
Mr B says when he eventually ended up speaking to the correct department at TSB, they accepted it 
was their error. TSB paid Mr B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him as well as £30 
towards call costs. Mr B says TSB also entered into a payment plan with him to pay the overdraft on a 
monthly basis. 
However, Mr B says that going overdrawn has had serious repercussions. Its had an impact on his 
Trust Deed.  His account  was sent to collections. He was charged overdraft interest,  fees and charges. 
And he says his credit  facility with another provider (who relies  on Mr Bs TSB account  being  in order) 
was affected  and eventually that credit facility was stopped  this has caused  him further financial 
problems. More  recently his credit file is showing a default.
Mr B is particularly upset that while  TSB were  sending him holding letters about his complaint, the 
collections team were harassing him with letters  and threatening debt recovery action. He said this 
shouldnt have happened  because  he had only gone  overdrawn because of TSBs  IT issues and the 
two departments  should  have liaised with each other. Essentially Mr B doesnt think  TSB should have 
sent his account to collections while the complaint was still being investigated.
Our adjudicator considered  the complaint and recommended a total award of £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused  to Mr B. TSB agreed to make this payment. Since the assessment was 
issued, Mr B tried to log into his account online but the account had disappeared.  It transpired  that the 
account had been moved from collections to recovery.    Mr B was very stressed about this. He didnt 
accept our adjudicators  assessment and asked for his complaint to be looked  at again and for the 
issue about his account  being in collections and now in recovery  to be addressed. 
A second adjudicator  considered Mr Bs complaint and concluded that it wasnt because  of TSB that 
Mr Bs account  had gone overdrawn. Mr B strongly disagreed with this and felt his complaint hadnt  
been investigated as it ought to have been by the adjudicator as TSB had already acknowledged  it 
was their error that the transactions left the account at the same time. And he says his issue about  
being harassed by collections and his account being sent to recoveries wasnt addressed and this is 
what his main problem was. As a resolution  Mr B would like for his account to be returned from 
recovery and for him to be able to access his account again,  for any fees and charges  to be waived 
and for a realistic payment  plan to be achieved. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN17213685In order  for me to conclude that TSB should put things right as Mr B would  like, I would need to be 
satisfied that it was because of TSBs mistakes that Mr Bs account went  overdrawn  in the first place. 
However, I havent  currently seen  sufficient  evidence  to conclude that TSB should be held responsible 
for Mr B going  overdrawn on his account and as a result for the consequences  that followed. So Im 
not thinking of asking TSB to do anything further. I appreciate that this isnt the outcome Mr B was 
looking for but I will now explain why I have currently reached this decision.
Mr B no longer has the evidence he says he originally provided to TSB to show them that the fuel 
payments werent being  reflected on his account as they took place. However, I can see from the 
transaction history provided  by TSB that £1 authorisations did take place with payments being  debited  
from Mr Bs account at a later date. So I accept what Mr B says about the full payments not being 
immediately reflected  on his account. And its clear to me that Mr B was concerned about the 
payments leaving his account all at the same  time. 
However, its also right that the processing  of debit  card payments  isnt instant  and in the normal 
course of events it can take a few days between the authorisation/transaction taking place and the 
money actually being debited from an account.  Even though the authorisations  on Mr Bs account  
were for £1 there is no dispute that Mr B actually carried out the transactions  for the full amounts and 
as such  Mr B would have  been aware  of how much he was spending and it would have been his 
responsibility to monitor his account. So in order for me to hold TSB responsible for the impact  on    
Mr B of going overdrawn  on his account rather than Mr B himself, the questions I need to consider 
are: was there a time when transactions over different  dates all debited Mr Bs account at once 
causing him to go overdrawn and was the amount  of time taken from the date of 
authorisation/transaction taking place to the money leaving Mr Bs account unreasonable to the extent 
that it made it difficult for Mr B to manage his account, causing him to go overdrawn.  
Mr B says that TSB have already accepted their error  and his main concern  is why his account was 
sent to collections despite  this and while his complaint was ongoing. Ive seen TSBs system notes 
and these show  that TSB did accept there was some known issue and awarded Mr B compensation 
as mentioned already.  However, despite what TSB said initially, based on the evidence they have 
provided since the payment was offered I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold TSB responsible for 
Mr B going overdrawn on his account,  and therefore the impact going  overdrawn  has had on him. 
This is because I havent seen evidence which shows me that several  fuel transactions  over different  
days debited Mr Bs account all at once and I dont think there was an unreasonable delay between 
the authorisations taking place/transaction dates and the full amount leaving  Mr Bs account.
I am aware  that some petrol stations (pay at pump) payments dont  get processed  as quickly as they 
should which  can cause  delays in the money leaving consumers accounts.  It seems to me that this is 
what Mr B is saying happened to him. But this isnt in itself a TSB IT issue. Ive also taken on board  
what Mr B says when he questions  why he would need to fill up with this much petrol  in one day  it 
wouldnt even be possible  to use that much petrol in one day in his circumstances  so it stands  to 
reason, according to Mr B, that these transactions took place over a period of time but were  debited 
all at once. There is undoubtedly force in Mr Bs logic. However, the difficulty I have is that the 
evidence Ive seen doesnt reflect this.
Mr B cant recall exactly when the payments  left his account but he thinks it was around May-July 
2018. He also says because  of these payments leaving his account at the same time he ended up 
being around  £300 overdrawn.  So he says from the bank statements we should  be able to tell exactly 
when this happened. 
I have seen Mr Bs bank  statements from January  2018 to January  2019 to ensure  that I have a full 
picture of how Mr Bs account was running  and to allow for any uncertainty  as to the month in which  
Mr B thinks the issue  occurred.  However,  I havent seen any statements during this entire period  
which show that 20 transactions for fuel, or anywhere close  to that amount, were  actually debited  from 
Mr Bs account  on the same  date. The maximum  amount of fuel payments taken on the same date 
are on 11 and 12 July 2018  where  three payments were taken  out on each of the days   so six in 
Ref: DRN17213686total. I also note that these  transactions  caused Mr Bs account to go overdrawn and largely 
contributed to it going overdrawn by almost £300. So I think its reasonable to assume that Mr B is 
referring to this period  of time.  
TSB have provided  us with evidence (from VISAs authorisation  log) which shows the date these 
payments were authorised/transactions took place  as well as the transaction  amounts. Ive compared  
these with the dates and amounts debited from Mr Bs account as shown in the statements  provided. 
These show that the actual transactions  for the payments  debited from Mr Bs account  on 11 and 12 
July took place only three days earlier.  I can also see the £1 authorisation for these  payments as 
being three days earlier.  This does  still beg the question why Mr B would have even needed to buy 
fuel three times on each of these two days. I dont know the answer  to this and can only go by the 
evidence Ive seen. And the evidence  shows  me that on occasions Mr B did, for whatever reason, pay 
for petrol  several  times  on the same  date and that is why these transactions  left his account on the 
same date a few days later.  
To be fair to Mr B, I have also looked at the transaction history from VISAs authorisation  log from 
around the start of the IT issues  towards the end of April 2018 all the way up until 31 July 2018 just to 
ensure I have considered  the full time frame  Mr B has told us the delay in payments may have taken 
place. Again Ive checked the transaction dates of all fuel payments and Ive compared these  to Mr 
Bs bank statements to check how long it took for the payments to be debited  from Mr Bs account.  
The maximum difference between the transaction date (and therefore  the authorisation  date) and the 
money leaving  Mr Bs account in respect of fuel transactions is around five days. 
I should  add however, that I have  seen  various  transactions in the transaction  history provided, 
particularly in May and June  2018 where  it looks like there were numerous fuel transactions 
authorised but according to the bank statements  Ive seen (up to January 2019)  these payments have 
never left Mr Bs account.  It could possibly be that these  payments were the ones Mr B was 
concerned about leaving his account all at once  when  he raised his concern  with TSB. I dont know 
why these  payments were  authorised but never left Mr Bs account but the important  point to note is 
that because these  payments never left Mr Bs account,  they couldnt have  been responsible for him 
going overdrawn.
Ive thought about whether a difference of 3-5 days between  the authorisation/transaction  date and 
the date the funds actually  left Mr Bs account is unreasonable. I dont consider this to have been at 
all unreasonable, given what Ive already said about the processing of debit card payments not being  
instant and especially when  taking  into account non-working days  in between  where  relevant. Mr B 
was clearly aware that the payments were  being authorised for £1 and then taken  out at a later date 
and so it would have been for him to manage his account accordingly. Had there been an 
unreasonable amount of delay,  as Mr B has alleged,  with payments being  debited  all at once months 
later then the situation may have been different as I can see that this would have been difficult  for Mr 
B to monitor.  But this isnt the case  here.
Because the transaction history and bank statements dont show that payments made on different 
dates were taken out all at once on the same date or that there was an unreasonable  delay on TSBs 
part in the payments being taken out of Mr Bs account,  I dont think  its fair to hold TSB responsible 
for Mr B going  overdrawn on his account.  And because I cant hold TSB responsible  for Mr B going  
overdrawn on his account, I cant hold TSB responsible for the difficult  financial  situation Mr B has 
found himself  in. 
Ive also thought  carefully about what Mr B has said about  how TSB shouldnt have sent his account 
to collections while the complaint was ongoing. Although I understand Mr Bs concern,  TSB werent 
wrong in doing this as the debt was legitimately owed. I also note that Mr B was well aware that TSB 
had (albeit  wrongly according  to him) taken this action.  As such Mr B could have entered into a 
payment plan with TSB while  the complaint  was ongoing and the account was in collections. Although  
Mr B had entered into a payment plan initially in August 2018, this appears to have ended. From the 
evidence available to me he has not entered a new payment  plan since then. And I can see from the 
notes provided that in January 2019  Mr B refused to make  any payments. 
Ref: DRN17213687So based on everything Ive seen, I dont think TSB are responsible for the impact going overdrawn 
has had on Mr B. And I dont think TSB were wrong  in the particular circumstances of this case to 
send the account to collections  when  they did.
However, I appreciate there was some miscommunication by TSB about the fuel transactions. And I 
think TSB could have  better explained to Mr B that they could send the account  to collections despite 
the ongoing complaint. So I uphold Mr Bs complaint  to that extent. And I think £150 in compensation 
is a fair way to resolve this matter. As I understand it TSB have already paid Mr B this amount  
following our adjudicators assessment. If they have then they dont  need to pay anything further. 
But as set out already, as I dont think TSB were responsible for Mr Bs account going overdrawn, I 
dont require TSB to do anything more than this. It is for Mr B to liaise with TSB to come to an 
arrangement to repay the debt. TSB should be aware of their responsibility to deal with consumers 
positively and sympathetically where they have financial difficulties.
my provisional  decision
Im thinking  of upholding Mr Bs complaint against TSB Bank plc to the extent set out above. Unless  I 
receive any further evidence and/or comments from TSB or Mr B which change my mind,  I will require 
TSB Bank  plc to pay Mr B £150 in compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused to him if 
they havent done so already  but I wont be asking them to do anything else.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1721368