K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained about a number of issues relating to her mortgage account held with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Woolwich). 
This current complaint  is about the following matters:
the advice  she was given to take out the mortgage in 2005 was unsuitable;
she was charged a £150 fee for a further advance in 2007;
she is unhappy about the way Barclays has dealt  with requests for information from the 
Department of Work  and Pensions  (DWP) between 2013 and 2018;
she is unhappy about the way Barclays tried to repossess her property in 2018.
background
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to almost 1,000 pages of documents.  Ive read 
everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
I will summarise  the current  complaint briefly. Mrs T has a capital repayment mortgage  with 
Barclays taken out in 2005, originally  for £55,000.  She took out a further advance in 2007 of 
£12,245. The mortgage also has a linked mortgage current  account (MCA) with an overdraft 
facility. The overdraft is on an interest-only basis at Barclays standard variable rate, and is 
repayable either on demand by Barclays, at the end date of the mortgage or, if earlier, the 
date the mortgage is repaid in full.
The annual statement for December 2019  shows that there  was at that time just over 
£37,000 owing on the main mortgage  (including the further advance) and about  £28,500  on 
the MCA reserve. 
I am sorry  to note that several years  ago Mrs T began to experience financial difficulties and 
the mortgage account fell into arrears. In 2017 Barclays  began possession action, when the 
arrears were  more than £3,000.
On 28 January 2018 a suspended  possession order was granted  by the court  in favour  of 
Barclays, when the arrears were approximately  £3,500. Mrs T has now cleared the arrears.
It is against this background that the current complaint has been made. In summary,  Mrs T 
says that Barclays has consistently provided  incorrect information to the DWP,  which has 
affected the amount of mortgage  interest  the DWP has paid and, according to Mrs T, has 
resulted in Barclays claiming  arrears exist when Mrs T believes they do not. Mrs T is also 
Ref: DRN11305582unhappy that Barclays continued repossession action in 2017, culminating in the court order  
granted on 29 January 2018.
Mrs T complained to Barclays. The bank didnt think  it had done anything wrong. Barclays  
also thought that the issues complained  about had all previously been dealt with.
On 5 February 2020 I issued a jurisdiction decision in which I explained that the issues  we 
are able to consider are Mrs Ts concerns about how Barclays  responded to the DWP 
between 2013  and 2018, and about the repossession of the property in 2018. 
An investigator looked at those issues. He was satisfied that, for the most part, Barclays had 
provided the DWP with the information it had requested between 2013 and 2018. 
He noted a final response letter  had been  issued by Barclays on 2 June 2016 in which  
Barclays had accepted it had provided the DWP  with incorrect figures.  But he was also 
satisfied that this part of the complaint was out of time, as Mrs T hadnt brought  it to us within  
six months, as specified in the letter.
The investigator also didnt think Barclays had done  anything wrong in proceeding with 
repossession action, given the level of arrears.
Mrs T didnt  agree with anything the investigator said and has made detailed submissions in 
response. Mrs T would like us to investigate all the issues shes complained about and is 
concerned about  bias and unfairness  against her by the investigator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
preliminary comments: I confirm Ive read everything provided by Mrs T and Barclays  and 
taken note of Mrs Ts very detailed submissions. Ive also reviewed the previous complaint 
files, which  in many respects  overlap the issues in this complaint. I have noted  the decisions 
reached by the ombudsmen  on those  cases. And Ive revisited my jurisdiction decision 
issued on 5 February 2020.
Mrs T wants us to look at all the issues shes complained about  including  her allegation 
that the mortgage was mis-sold  in 2005, and her complaint about a £150 fee for the further  
advance in 2007. But having reviewed  my decision of 5 February 2020 I am not minded to 
change my view that Mrs Ts complaints about those matters have been brought  too late for 
us to look at them. I am satisfied there  are no exceptional  reasons for the delay  that would 
allow me to waive  the time limits.
In a decision dated 11 March 2019 an ombudsman decided  that we couldnt consider any 
matters addressed in final response letters issued by Barclays  dated  22 April 2016,  2 June 
2016 and 13 June 2016, as these had been brought out of time, with no exceptional 
circumstances to explain the delay.
This means  that the complaint about  incorrect information given to the DWP during the 
period covered in the complaint addressed by the final response letter  dated  2 June 2019 is, 
as the investigator  on this current  complaint  explained, out of time, and indeed I note has 
Ref: DRN11305583already been ruled out of our jurisdiction by an ombudsman  on 11 March 2019. That final 
response covered  information provided to the DWP  up to November  2015.
The ombudsman issued  a final decision on 29 March 2019 on the merits of Mrs Ts 
complaint about  the information  provided  by Barclays to the DWP  between  June 2017 and 
February 2018. That complaint was not upheld.
information provided to the DWP:  As  stated above, the complaint about  information given 
to the DWP  before November 2015 which was addressed in the final response  dated 2 June 
2016 is out of time. 
Ive looked at the information provided by Barclays to the DWP after November  2015  and 
before June 2017. Ive seen nothing in the documentation sent to the DWP to lead me to 
conclude that the information provided  by Barclays was incorrect or inaccurate.
Barclays had clarified in June 2016  that before November 2015  it would deduct charges and 
arrears from the account balance figure  given to the DWP. But from November 2015 the 
figure included  the arrears, but not charges. 
Barclays has provided us with details of the information provide to the DWP, which sets out 
how much  of the outstanding amount owed to the bank consists of arrears. If this information 
was misunderstood  or misinterpreted by the DWP, resulting in Mrs T being  paid more than 
she should have  been, I cant hold Barclays responsible  for that.
In all the circumstances, Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
possession proceedings: Barclays had instructed its solicitors to begin possession action 
in early 2017. I understand two court hearings scheduled to take place in 2017  were  
adjourned, but the bank  was granted a suspended possession order on 29 January 2018, 
when the arrears were  almost £3,300.
The gist of Mrs Ts arguments (and I summarise)  is that Barclays  actions in pursuing  this 
course of action were  unfair. She says the bank  failed  to follow  the pre-action protocol  in 
relation to mortgage arrears. Mrs T says she was making payment  towards  the arrears when 
Barclays took possession  action.
I appreciate Mrs T is unhappy that the bank  proceeded with the possession  action. But the 
court was satisfied that Barclays was entitled  to possession and made the order accordingly.  
I simply dont  have  any power to interfere  with or vary an order made by a court. 
I can see from the court order that Mrs T attended  the hearing.  She therefore  had the 
opportunity to make her position clear  to the judge.  If the judge  had thought that Barclays  
was not entitled to possession, the order would not have been granted.
I do appreciate that the court proceedings were upsetting for Mrs T. But Im afraid that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  cant get involved with matters  that have already been  
decided by a court. If Mrs T is still unhappy that a possession order  was granted, then she 
will need  to refer this back to the court where the order was made.  It is outside  my power to 
do anything about  this.
In the circumstances, Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN11305584further comments: As I said above,  there is a MCA with this mortgage,  which  currently  has 
an outstanding  balance of around  £28,500.  The mortgage has about ten years left on its 
term. At the end of the mortgage term (or if it is repaid before the end date), any balance  on 
the MCA will have to be repaid in full. 
I am mentioning this here because  I think  it is important  that, if she doesnt already have a 
plan to pay of the MCA overdraft, Mrs T will need to think about how shes  going  to pay this 
off when the mortgage comes to an end. I would  not want  Mrs T to be in the position of 
finding herself with a large lump sum to pay at the point where her repayment mortgage has 
been paid off. The MCA overdraft has to be paid off separately from the mortgage.
If Mrs T believes she might have  difficulty repaying the MCA overdraft, she should speak to 
Barclays about this sooner  rather than later. There is still time for Mrs T to put a repayment 
strategy in place for the MCA.
Finally, I can see Mrs T feels  very aggrieved at what she perceives  to be injustices and 
unacceptable service  towards her by Barclays. Shes brought a number of previous 
complaints to Barclays where  final response  letters have been issued, but the complaints  
havent always been brought to us in time.  
Mrs T has also had ombudsmens decisions on complaints  she has asked us to look at. In 
some cases  the ombudsman has explained  that we cant look at the complaints because of 
the time limits set out in our rules, On other  issues, Mrs T has had an ombudsmans decision 
on the merits, meaning those issues cant then be reconsidered. by another  ombudsman  in a 
new complaint Other  matters have been  decided by a court,  and so its not appropriate for us 
to revisit those issues.
I dont doubt Mrs Ts strength of feeling  about  how she feels Barclays has treated her. But as 
we have issued  several ombudsmans  decisions on the complaints Mrs T has raised  with us 
over the years  whether  those decisions  are that we cant  consider her complaints, or 
whether they are decisions on the merits  its clear  that a line needs to be drawn on whats  
gone before  so that the parties can move  forward from here. 
There has to be finality to the involvement of the Financial Ombudsman Service in Mrs Ts 
relationship with Barclays. So I think I must make it clear that with this final decision,  our 
consideration of all the issues Mrs T has raised  with us in this and previous complaints is at 
an end. 
This does  not preclude Mrs T from bringing  complaints to us about new issues  which  may 
arise in the future  if shes unable to resolve  those matters with Barclays.  But we will not be 
reconsidering any issue which weve either ruled  out of jurisdiction or on which we have 
issued a decision on the merits. 
I would not want  Mrs T to be under any misapprehension that we will be able to reconsider in 
future complaints matters  that have already been raised in previous complaints. I fully 
understand that Mrs T has been unhappy  with the outcome of her previous complaints  and 
I have no doubt  she will not be happy  with the outcome of this one too. But that doesnt  
mean Mrs T can continue to bring the same  matters to us again  in the hope of getting  a 
different outcome. And for the sake  of clarity,  where  Barclays has previously  looked  into a 
complaint and issued a final response on it, the bank is under no obligation to issue a fresh  
final response with new referral rights if the same issue is raised with Barclays again.
Ref: DRN11305585I am sorry  this isnt the outcome  Mrs T wanted.  I would like to assure her that I have  taken all 
her arguments into account,  and given careful consideration to everything shes said. But 
having done so, I dont  find Barclays to be at fault here.
my final decision
I know Mrs T will be disappointed, but for the reasons given above, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means  that we are unable to consider the complaint any further,  nor enter  into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1130558