K820x#14The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold them a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP) policy in 2004,  with their joint mortgage. 
What happened
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) together with other features,  such as life insurance and critical illness cover 
(CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer 
wishes. 
Mr and Mrs M were  only covered for life element of the policy.  And they paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Did Mr and Mrs M agree  to the TMPP?
Halifax should have  made Mr and Mrs M aware the TMPP was optional.  
These events were obviously a long time ago now. We dont have much documentary 
evidence to refer to because Halifax no longer has any copies. This is unfortunate, but not 
particularly unusual given  how long ago the sale was.
However, Ive looked at the main points  of complaint put forward by Mr and Mrs M. The key 
one is that they have  no recollection of agreeing to take out the policy  and it was added  to 
their mortgage without their consent. Whilst I accept this may well be their genuine belief 
now, weve seen quite  a few similar sales to this from that time period.  And as a result, 
weve looked in detail at what Halifaxs sales processes were like.
We know for example  that consumers were  normally  sent or given a letter about the types 
of cover theyd agreed to at the mortgage  interview. This usually set out that consumers, 
like Mr and Mrs M, had accepted the recommendation to have certain,  or all, elements of 
the TMPP policy.
We were also sent some  screenshots of Halifaxs internal computer system. Ive seen  
quite a few of these  before and I also know from experience  that they show, as in this case,  
that Mr and Mrs M were asked several  questions relating to the cover  theyd  agreed  to buy. 
Because I think what was keyed into the Halifax computer system,  would  have been  done 
at the time of the mortgage  interview   I think its most likely  all aspects of the TMPP were 
probably discussed in some  detail. 
Finally, I can see that Mr and Mrs M only opted to take the life cover  and not the PPI and 
CIC elements. This further leads me to think they discussed different forms of protection 
with Halifax and took the level of cover most suitable for their circumstances.
Ref: DRN10868202So overall, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs M agreed to the TMPP at the time of the 
mortgage interview and sale.  
Were Mr and Mrs M given suitable  recommendations?
Halifax accepts it recommended the TMPP to Mr and Mrs M. So, it had to make sure it was 
suitable for them.
Halifax should have  sold Mr and Mrs M a decreasing term assurance,  instead of a level 
term assurance. This is because their outstanding mortgage debt was being gradually  
reduced  so their payments for the life cover should  have reflected this over time too. But 
Halifax has said it didnt actually sell decreasing term assurance, but we asked Halifax to 
see how much it would have cost had it sold to it to make sure Mr and Mrs M havent lost 
out. Halifax has provided evidence to show that the decreasing  term assurance  would  have 
been more expensive, so Mr and Mrs M havent  been financially disadvantaged by taking 
the level term assurance. 
Ive reviewed the information Mr and Mrs M have provided about  the other policies they say 
they had. But having this form of life cover didnt make the TMPP element specific  to the 
mortgage unsuitable. It wasnt unusual for couples  to take out life cover to help each other 
out if the worst happened.
And I dont  believe any of the protections Mr and Mrs M had with their jobs rendered the life 
protection unsuitable for them. Mr and Mrs M were  relatively young at the time and not 
uncommonly, they were  taking on a mortgage  which I think  would have been a long-term 
commitment for them. 
The life cover was designed to help their next of kin cope with unforeseen or sudden 
financial uncertainty and I dont  think it was unreasonable that Halifax recommended  this 
element as part of the overall TMPP policy. 
For the PPI and CIC elements, whilst Halifax recommended these elements to                    
Mr and Mrs M, they didnt opt to take them so there isnt anything  more for me to consider 
here. 
Were they given enough information?
During the sale Halifax shouldve provided information which was clear.  I cant  say Mr and 
Mrs M were told or given  all the information  they should have  been,  but I think  they would 
have been easily able to see how much the TMPP cost and what  was covered. I think they 
would have also been given a copy of the policy rules.
Having carefully considered this case,  I think its much more  likely that Mr and Mrs M 
tailored the TMPP  cover  to suit their needs  of the time. I think  they probably agreed to the 
elements of the cover because it was something  they thought would be useful to have.  
So, Halifax  doesnt  need to refund anything to Mr and Mrs M. I can appreciate my decision is 
likely to disappoint Mr and Mrs M. They  have  put time and effort into this complaint. But I 
hope my explanation helps them to understand how I have  reached  this outcome. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN10868203For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I dont direct  Bank  
of Scotland Plc to do anything  more  than the above,  to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1086820