K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained that an adviser  with 2 Plan Wealth Management Limited advised him 
to invest in unsuitable investments within his self-invested personal pension  (SIPP).
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September  2020.   I set out the 
background points  including:
Mr W was advised  by advisers, Mr and Mrs E.  In late 2008 Mr E recommended three 
investments:
o£20,000 in a structured investment product
o£20,000 with Arch Cru
o£25,000 in an unregulated collective  scheme  (UCIS) I will refer to as the 
property fund.
In 2012 Mr W cashed  in the structured investment and re-invested the proceeds.
In 2013 Mr W accepted 2 Plans  offer to review its advice in relation to the Arch Cru 
under an industry wide review  and in time he accepted redress for that investment.
In 2018 Mr W complained about  the advice he had received from Mr E.  2 Plan didnt 
uphold the complaint.   It thought  the advice was suitable for Mr W.  It  said its 
suitability letter dated 15 December 2008  recorded  that Mr W had an aggressive 
attitude to risk and so the advice was suitable for him.  It also thought  the complaint 
had been made too late in any event.
The time bar issue was considered by an ombudsman.  She thought  any complaint 
about the advice about the structured product and Arch Cru investments had been  
made too late, but the property fund investment was different.  It was recommended  
as a higher risk investment  and Mr W had no reason  to have concerns in relation to it 
more than three years before  he made his complaint in November 2018.
An investigator considered the complaint about  the property fund investment only.   
He thought the advice  was unsuitable.  As an unregulated fund it should  only have 
been recommended  to restricted  classes  of investors and it as wasnt  clear Mr W was 
such an investor.  And he didnt think the investment was suitable for Mr Ws needs 
and objectives.   He thought 2 Plan should  pay compensation to Mr W.
Mr W agreed with the investigator.  2 Plan did not.  Its position  is still that Mr W is an 
aggressive investor  as set out in the suitability letter  of 15 December 2008 - and 
that the investment is suitable for an aggressive  investor. (In my provisional  decision 
I tended to use the term adventurous rather than aggressive,  but aggressive was the 
term used in the suitability letter of 15 December  2008.)  
Being  prepared to tolerate such losses of up to 25% in a year was part of 2 Plans  
definition of an aggressive investor. Mr W says he is not an aggressive investor and 
that losses of 25% in a year was never discussed with him. 
Ref: DRN13373292Mr W also said he is no longer a UK tax payer so adjustments  to any compensation 
to account for UK tax is not appropriate.
I went on to set out my provisional findings.  The points I made included:
2 Plan says Mr W was an aggressive investor.   It says this is confirmed in a suitability 
letter dated  15 December 2008.    That letter begins:
Further to our recent meetings and conversations,  this letter  summarises  the 
outcome hopefully confirms my recommendations and the reasons for them.
YOUR REQUIREMENTS
You currently have £42K  in your Transact  pension account.  This is probably  a great 
position as whilst we may not be right at the bottom  of the markets, its unlikely that 
we are at the top!  Whilst you want to be actively invested, the main aim of the 
strategy is to provide  a core and satellite  approach where the core investments 
have a fairly low volatility  and risk levels allowing you to be more speculative  in 
specific investments.
I suggest we allocate  £65K now and look again in a month at whats  about  then and 
where things are in the market.  That way, we spread the timing,  since no one can 
accurately predict  markets
The letter went on to say: 
ATTITUDE TO RISK
We discussed the different levels of attitude to risk and the 2plan risk profile as noted 
in the Fact Find.  You confirmed that the overall  approach to investing matches the 
Aggressive category.
You are willing to accept a higher  level of risk on the basis  that it may provide 
a higher level of return over the medium to long term compared to the 
alternative investment  profiles already outlined.
You are willing to diversify your investment across the main asset classes.   
You understand that it is likely that the majority of your investment will be in 
shares with the highest proportion of your portfolio in non-UK equities.
You understand that this may result in a significant fluctuation in the value of 
your investment in the short and long term.
You would  feel comfortable  if the investment fell by more than 25% in one 
year. 
Please refer to the Risk Tolerance Summary  attached to this letter  which provides a 
comprehensive list of our risk definitions.   Please  ensure that we have correctly 
stated your views  by studying the alternatives available.
You confirmed you understand the general 2plan  risk ratings with the general risk 
profile noted above.  However, I explained  that there are some  investment products 
that offer a degree  of capital protection and you confirmed that you would be 
interested in this type of investment.
Ref: DRN13373293I have therefore  selected investments that when added  to other investments in your 
portfolio have an overall Aggressive risk profile reflecting the core and satellite 
approach.
The 15 December 2008 letter  recorded Mr Es recommendations and the reasons  for 
them.  But the letter  records and explains only the structured product and Arc Cru 
investments.  It says nothing at all about  the property fund investment.
Mr W says the willingness to tolerate losses of up to 25% in one year was never 
discussed with him.  When  he was asked to provide copies of all the documents he 
received relating to the advice he did not produce a copy of the 15 December 2008 
suitability letter.
There is no evidence the letter was received such as a response  or a signed copy  
requested for records.
By contrast  there is an email dated  12 December 2008 which Mr W did receive.   This  
is known because he replied to it.  The email of 12 December 2008 is like the 
15 December 2008 letter  in recording the recommendations of the structured product 
and the Arc Cru investment but it is also different in some important respects.
The email of 12 December 2008 begins:
you have approx  £68,351 in your Transact  pension sat in cash   not a bad place  to 
be.  We have invested  £25K in the [property fund] we discussed.
So, we should  look to allocate  another £40K now in lower risk funds.
The email then recommended  Arc Cru and structured product.  It did not set out any 
definitions of risk.  It did not refer to a tolerance of losses of up to 25% in a year.   
My W replied:
Sounds good.  I leave it to you to select the fund.
Mr W invested in each  of the three investments in his SIPP at essentially the same 
time.  
Its odd not to refer to the property fund investment in a suitability letter  (the letter of 
15 December 2008) that was apparently written to confirm the recommendations that 
had been made recently.
The letter of 15 December 2008 is inconsistent in referring to £42K available  to invest 
and investing  £65K.  The second figure is an accurate reflection of the level of 
investment being made by Mr W in December 2008.  And its consistent with the 
email of 12 December  2008.
There are two likely explanations for the inconsistencies in the letter of 
15 December 2008.  The  first is that the adviser started to draft the letter  but got 
distracted in some way and never  came back to it to correct  it, finish it and send it.  
The alternative is that the letter  was a deliberate fabrication or covering of tracks in 
Ref: DRN13373294relation to the property fund investment because Mr E knew,  or thought, 2 Plan would 
not be happy about him recommending it. 
Whatever the explanation, the letter of 15 December 2008 is not a reliable record   
which is Mr Ws position.  He says he does  not have an aggressive  attitude to risk 
and such a high-risk investment should  not have been  recommended  to him.
Mr W has argued that the investment is only suitable for sophisticated investors and 
that he is not a sophisticated investor.  However,  Mr W signed a Sophisticated 
Investor Certificate on 5 December 2008  in which  he declared that he did qualify as a 
sophisticated investor in relation to investments of the following  kinds:
oshares or stock  in the share capital of a company.
oshares or stock  in a partnership
ounits in a collective  investment  scheme (whether or not the scheme is 
authorised)
orights  under a personal pension scheme.
So Mr W did agree  that he was able to receive promotions of restricted investments.
The property fund investment was such a restricted investment.  It was an 
unregulated collective investment scheme.  It was a relatively  small property 
development fund which intended to invest 75% in residential development projects 
and 25% in land projects ie land on which planning  permission had not yet been 
obtained.  The residential projects  would  be subject to gearing (borrowing) of 75% 
with no gearing  for the land projects  but they would be subject  to planning costs 
without the guarantee of success.  
The investment  was concentrated in one sector  and was not sufficiently large  to be 
highly diversified.  The scheme was by its nature speculative since  it was intending to 
profit from the granting of planning  permission which could not be guaranteed.   And  
as a small scheme it was vulnerable should  any of its projects  be unsuccessful for 
any reason.  These points and its unregulated structure also mean that the scheme  
would very likely become  illiquid  if any problems were encountered. The scheme  
would therefore  generally be considered a high-risk investment.  
Mr E was an investor or otherwise involved in the scheme.  It  is also noted that a 
usual recommendation report setting out the details  of the investment and why it was 
thought suitable for Mr W has not been provided.  Nor is there any agreed  record of 
Mr Ws attitude to risk at the time.
Mr E was a whole of market IFA, but he seems  to have recommended a pet project  
which was a high-risk investment.  Mr W did not make a properly informed decision 
about the investment. There is no basis for saying it was suitable for Mr W in his 
circumstances notwithstanding his agreeing to sign a sophisticated investor 
certificate in order to be able to invest in the scheme. There  is no evidence that 
Mr Ws attitude to risk was sufficiently robust for such  an investment or any other  
evidence that this investment was a suitable  investment for Mr Ws pension  fund.
 
The investment  was unsuitable for Mr W and should not have been recommended to 
him.  If  Mr W had been advised not to invest in the property  fund he would not have 
Ref: DRN13373295done so.  It is fair and reasonable  that 2 Plan compensate Mr W for the loss he has 
suffered in relation to the property fund investment. 
I then set out how 2 Plan should compensate Mr W.
Mr W does not agree  that he was a sophisticated  investor at all but accepts that this point 
has not had a material impact on the provisional decision.
Mr W also points  out that the 2 Plan risk profile  it relies on includes:
You understand that it is likely that the majority of your investment will be in shares 
with the highest proportion of your portfolio in non-UK equities.
 
Mr W therefore thinks the benchmark used to calculate the compensation due to him should 
be more global than the FTSE UK Private investors Total  Return Index proposed in the 
provisional decision.  A more global index such as the MSCI World Index or FTSE All World 
Index would better reflect the way in which Mr W has invested.
2 Plan does not agree with the provisional decision.  
2 Plan says it cannot understand  the jurisdiction decision that said that structured product 
and Arch Cru investments could not be considered  but the property fund investment could.   
That decision said the property fund investment was recommended as a higher  risk 
investment and Mr W had no reason to have concerns about it more  than three  years  before 
he made his complaint in November 2018.  2 Plan asks for a clearer explanation why he had 
no reasons to have  concerns before November 2018.
2 Plan says the ombudsman service has taken the view that Mr W did not have an 
adventurous attitude to risk.  However, its records show its computer-based fact find was 
completed by the adviser.  As part of that process  there was a page that dealt with attitude to 
risk.  Mr  W must have completed  the 17 questions on that page to determine his attitude  to 
risk otherwise the adviser  would  not have been able to make  any recommendations. The 
system would not have  allowed it.  
The questions were  answered and Mr Ws attitude to risk was established to be aggressive 
on 15 December 2008.  This is at odds with Mr Ws view,  and that taken by the ombudsman  
service, that Mr W did not have an aggressive attitude to risk.
Further after moving  from Transact Mr W invested in a portfolio of funds described by his 
new adviser as speculative, this is despite  Mr W saying  he does not have such  a high 
attitude to risk.  This  does not make sense and confirms Mr Ws attitude to risk really  was at 
a high (aggressive)  level. If not, Mr W must  have  transferred to unsuitable funds in 2012 
also.
When Mr W transferred  his pension to Transact  in 2008, he transferred in cash not in specie.  
And he stayed in cash for four months  not because he wanted capital protection  but because  
there was a buying opportunity for an aggressive investor.
The above  shows  Mr Ws attitude to risk was correctly assessed and suitable investments 
recommended to him in his full knowledge and acceptance. So, if the complaint is not time 
barred, it should  not be upheld. 
 
Ref: DRN13373296my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My colleague issued a jurisdiction  provisional decision on 11 November 2019.  A copy  was 
sent to both parties.  They were both given the opportunity to comment.  2 Plan did not 
respond to say it did not agree with or understand the ombudsmans  reasoning.  It did not 
respond at all.  The ombudsman therefore confirmed the decision in accordance with her 
provisional decision.  2 Plan did therefore  have adequate opportunity to ask the ombudsman  
about her reasoning before the jurisdiction decision was made.
One of our investigators  then considered the merits of the complaint and he issued his 
opinion letter.  2  Plan did not agree with it and the matter was referred to me to consider the 
merits of the complaint. 
I said I thought Mr Ws complaint should  be upheld.  I  did not make a finding that fixed  both 
Mr Ws attitude and the investment to a particular point on 2 Plans  risk rating.  Nor did I 
make a finding that Mr W was not a higher risk investor or that the investment was not higher 
risk.  I said
There was no agreed record of Mr Ws attitude to risk.
Mr E had an interest in the property fund investment.
The property fund investment was a pet project  which was a high-risk  investment.
I could not see any basis for saying  that particular investment was suitable  when  
Mr E was a whole of market IFA (and therefore had a large number of potential  
investments to choose from).
I could not see any evidence that Mr Ws attitude  to risk was sufficiently robust  (or 
high) for the property investment in his pension fund.  
2 Plan says Mr Ws attitude to risk was assessed as aggressive according to its definitions.  
It says it knows  that because its records require the completion of a risk assessment 
questionnaire with 17 questions which must be completed before its system allows a 
recommendation.  It says a recommendation cannot be made before then and that its 
records show the questionnaire was completed  on 15 December  2008  and the assessment 
made then that Mr Ws attitude to risk was aggressive.  
I am not sure if that is right given  that the email of 12 December 2008 included 
recommendations of the structured product and the Arch Cru investment and said the 
property fund investment  had already  been made.
Also it is not clear how the aggressive conclusion was reached  in the assessment and 
whether Mr W agreed with it.  While some answers seem to support that conclusion others 
do not do so as clearly,  and a number of Mr Ws answers indicated  his perception of his 
attitude to risk was moderate.
Also the email of 12 December 2008  does not refer to Mr Ws attitude to risk.  It did however 
say that £40,000 should  be allocated to lower risk funds and went  on the recommend Arch 
Cru and the structured product.  In  relation to the Arch Cru investment the email included the 
following comments:
Ref: DRN13373297Basically, very low risk, low volatility, unique approach  that has been working.  
Worth diversifying into.
This is not subprime  lending - this is very Blue Chip with lots of collateral.
This is not a cash deposit type investment  as stated in the prospectus  the Fund 
may be suitable for investors who are prepared to risk money in the stock market,  put 
capital at risk and are willing to invest over the medium  to long term (five years).
One of the downsides is arguably  that some of the companies  to whom the fund has 
loaned money  go bust and at worst  the security no longer  exits or it takes years to 
recover the loan from the sale of the security.
Given the nature  of the fund and the lending/borrowing environment  we are in, I 
think that there are more  pros that cons to putting in a good chunk of cash
Even allowing for the initial investment cost, ongoing charges and the risks, the 
investment is probably worth a punt on the basis that it should  provide a better return 
than investing  the funds in a cash deposit
The message seems to be that the investment is lower risk but not no risk - and that its 
suitable for someone who is prepared to suffer capital losses as with investment in the stock 
market.
In relation to the structured product the letter  describes a complex investment in three short 
paragraphs and concludes:
Nice and simple, low risk, and diverse. 
As mentioned above Mr W replied  to Mr E saying  
Sounds good, I leave it to Mr E to select the fund.  
It is not therefore completely clear from that exchange on 12 December 2008, in which 
investments were recommend, what Mr Ws attitude  to risk was.
2 Plans view is that Mr Ws attitude  to risk was aggressive and the property fund was 
consistent with that attitude to risk.  And consistent  with Mr Ws investments in 2014 when 
his new adviser said his attitude to risk was speculative  and had been since the 
investments were transferred to the new adviser in 2012. (That  adviser was with a different 
firm so was using different  terminology,  but the implication is clear that Mr W had a 
willingness to accept  a high level of investment risk.)
2 Plans definition of an aggressive attitude to risk is quoted above. I note that the definition  
includes a willingness to accept a higher level of risk and explains that the investor is willing 
to diversify across the main asset classes.  But it goes on explain this risk rating  by saying  
the investor is likely  to have the majority of their investments in shares with the highest 
proportion of their portfolio in non-UK equities.   Mr Ws investments in 2014  with the new 
adviser seems broadly  consistent with that level of risk. 
The aggressive risk rating was 2 Plans highest rating and it has to be considered by 
reference to the way it was defined.  What I mean  by that is investments that are broadly 
consistent with the level of risk as defined would be suitable for that risk rating, and not 
necessarily all high-risk investments.  So, to take an extreme  example, investing  all available  
funds in one single unlisted  security  would be a level of risk much higher  than 2 Plans 
aggressive rating since it includes the following in the definition:  
Ref: DRN13373298You are willing to diversify your investment across the main  asset classes.  You understand 
that it is likely that the majority of your investment will be in shares with the highest proportion  
of your portfolio in non-UK equities.
I think it is reasonable to say Mr Ws tolerance  of investment risk was reasonably high 
whether or not the precise definition of aggressive  was fully discussed and agreed  before the 
property fund investment  was recommended.   I say this based on points such as the 
investments Mr W agreed to make, one of which was said to be suitable for investors who 
were prepared to risk money  in the stock market; his hands-off approach to the selection of 
his investments, and the investments he transferred to in 2012.
The investments recommended by 2 Plan were:
£20,000 in Arch Cru
£20,000 in a structured product, and
£25,000 in the property fund.
This is not a diversified  portfolio  across the main  asset classes  with the majority invested in 
shares with highest  proportion  of the portfolio in non-UK equities.  The Arch Cru fund and the 
structured product were  not mainstream  investments.  They  were  both marketed  as 
alternatives to traditional investing in the main asset  classes.  And  the property fund was 
also non-mainstream in the sense that it was a small fund structured as a UCIS. 
In my view, the property  fund was not consistent  with the aggressive attitude to risk as 
defined by 2 Plan when  viewed in isolation or if viewed as part of the portfolio of funds  
recommended for Mr Ws pension.  In my view the fund on its own or taken  as part of the 
portfolio is not of broadly  equivalent risk to a diversified portfolio  investing across the main 
asset classes with the majority the of investment in shares with the highest proportion  of the 
portfolio in non-UK  equities.
Accordingly it is my view that the property fund was not suitable  for Mr W even if his attitude  
to risk was (or equivalent to) aggressive.
The property fund is a small  specialist property fund in which  the adviser had an interest as 
an investor.  It was a higher risk, illiquid,  unregulated collective investment scheme  that was 
not suitable for ordinary retail investors.  Mr W did sign a form to say he was a sophisticated 
investor, but it is not clear that he was.  And  in any event  agreeing  to be categorised as a 
sophisticated investor still does not make the investment suitable.
It does seem that Mr W had a reasonably high tolerance of risk but again this in itself does 
not make  the investment suitable for him.  2 Plan is a whole of market  IFA.  It could  have 
recommended many  other funds that were well established,  well diversified and held a high 
proportion of equities with non-UK equity  exposure. Instead the adviser  recommended a 
small unregulated collective investment scheme property fund investment in which he had a 
personal interest.  
Mr and Mrs E were  investors in the first fund in the same series with the same fund operator.   
Mr W invested in the second fund.   The first fund was another  relatively small  property fund.  
I do not know if Mr and/or  Mrs E invested  in the second fund also.   I do however accept that 
the adviser seems  to have had a connection with, or personal interest in, the funds offered 
by that operator.   That  interest  may not have amounted to a direct financial interest in the 
fund Mr W invested in, but I still think it reasonable to refer to it as a pet or favoured 
Ref: DRN13373299investment  one that would not be a normal choice for most IFAs to recommend to their 
clients. 
The fund Mr W invested in was concentrated in one sector  and was not sufficiently large to 
be effectively diversified  within that one asset class.  The scheme was by its nature  
speculative since it was intending to profit from the granting of planning permission which 
could not be guaranteed.  And as a small scheme  it was vulnerable should any of its projects  
be unsuccessful for any reason.  These  points and its unregulated structure also mean  that 
the scheme would  very likely become  illiquid if any problems were encountered.  I do not 
think that a reasonable adviser  acting  reasonably  in the circumstances would have 
recommended that fund to Mr W for approximately a third of his pension fund, or at all.  
There is no evidence that Mr Ws attitude  to risk was so high that he wanted to take such a 
high level of risk with his pension  fund.  
It therefore remains my view that Mr Ws complaint  should be upheld and that 2 Plan should 
compensate Mr W for any loss he has been caused.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr W as close  as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr W would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr W's circumstances  and objectives  when he invested.  
It should be noted that the redress I award  is intended to be fair and reasonable 
compensation, something that will be broadly  right.  It is not possible to say precisely what 
investment would have  been made  if Mr W has not invested in the property fund.   
Mr W says I should  use a benchmark that reflects  the overseas equities part of the 
aggressive risk profile and reflects the way he has invested over recent years.   However in 
part Mr W says he does not have  an aggressive attitude to risk and did not agree  to that 
rating so it is difficult to say redress should be based on the detail of that definition.   And  
Mr Ws more recent investment experience may be the result  of his change  of 
circumstances.  He  is now based overseas but was not at the time of the disputed  advice.  
I therefore think the approach I set out in my provisional decision remains  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
what should  2 Plan do? 
To compensate Mr W fairly 2 Plan should:
Compare the performance of Mr W's property fund investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no compensation 
is payable.
If there is a loss, 2 Plan should pay into Mr W's pension  plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect  of 
charges and any available tax relief.  In principle it is fair and reasonable that the 
Ref: DRN133732910compensation is paid into the pension if possible, notwithstanding that Mr Ws circumstances 
have changed  since he made the disputed investment, as that restores  Mr W to the position 
he would  have been in but for the problem I am addressing in this complaint.  However, 2 
Plan shouldnt  pay the compensation  into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any 
existing protection  or allowance.
If 2 Plan is unable to pay the compensation into Mr W's pension plan, it should  pay that 
amount direct to him. Because Mr Ws tax position  has changed our normal policy (as set 
out in the investigators opinion letter) of allowing  for the effect of UK income tax is not 
appropriate and I do not know what Mr Ws tax position will now be.  I therefore consider it 
best for the compensation  figure  to be paid in full without deduction or notional allowance  for 
tax.  Both parties are however free to comment on this point if they think  some other 
approach would be more appropriate.
In addition, 2 Plan should pay Mr W £300 for the trouble and upset this would have caused 
him in relation to the losses  suffered on the Sycamore investment advice (keeping in mind 
that the other investments  are not being  considered in this complaint) 
2 Plan should  also provide the details of the calculation to Mr W in a clear,  simple format.
investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
the 
property 
fundstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of this 
decision  to 
date of 
settlement  if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of 2 Plan 
being  notified  
of acceptance
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value 
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. 2 Plan should take ownership of 
the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. 
This amount should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance  paid as above.
If 2 Plan is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should  be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. 2 Plan may wish to require  that Mr W provides an undertaking 
to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. 2 Plan will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the undertaking.
Ref: DRN133732911fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if 2 Plan total all those payments and deduct  that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr W's circumstances and risk attitude. 
my final decision
My decision  is that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld, and that 2 Plan should pay Mr W fair 
compensation as set out above.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2021.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1337329