K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Landmark Mortgages  Limited wont agree to reduce the interest 
rate on their mortgage.
background 
Mr and Mrs E have  an interest only mortgage. It was originally  taken out many years  ago 
with the former Northern  Rock. When Northern Rock collapsed,  their mortgage was moved  
to the government-owned vehicle which took it over, and has since been  sold on to 
Landmark.
When their fixed  interest rate expired around a decade ago, Mr and Mrs Es mortgage 
reverted to the lenders  standard  variable  rate (SVR), and thats  what  Mr and Mrs E have 
been paying ever since.
Mr and Mrs E complain  about their mortgage rate. They say its not fair that Landmark wont 
reduce their interest rate  either by reducing  the SVR or giving them  a new lower fixed rate. 
They say that if they were  with other  lenders they could  be paying around  2% rather  than the 
roughly 5% Landmark  is charging them. If their rate was lower, they would be able to make  
overpayments to reduce  their balance  but as it is, they face getting to the end of their term 
in a few years time without being able to pay it off. They  want Landmark to reduce their 
interest rate or extend the term.
Our investigator didnt  think Landmark was acting unfairly, so Mr and Mrs E asked for an 
ombudsman to review  their complaint. I issued a provisional decision setting out my 
thoughts, in which I said:
Ill start by saying that I have considerable sympathy  with the predicament Mr and 
Mrs E find themselves in. 
The lending environment when they took their mortgage out was very different. Now, 
its much  harder to get an interest only mortgage.  Since they took the mortgage out, 
Mr E has become unwell  and had to give up work  and as a result their mortgage  is 
being paid, in part, by government benefits. Mr and Mrs E have no means of paying 
back the mortgage at the end of the term. For all those  reasons, theyre  not able to 
move their mortgage to another  lender  and consider  themselves trapped, first with 
the government-owned lender and then with Landmark. That means that, in reality, 
theyve got no choice but to pay Landmarks SVR  whereas if they were  with 
another lender they might be able to access lower  fixed or tracker rate products.
This complaint is about Landmark  not the government-owned lender that owned 
the mortgage before it was sold to Landmark.  When Landmark took over the 
mortgage it was on that lenders SVR, and in practice the same rate continues to be 
applied. The government-owned lender was prevented from offering interest  rate 
products by the terms of its government bailout because  of legal restrictions on 
government bodies  competing against the market. That doesnt apply to Landmark,  
which is a private company, so theres no legal  or government policy  bar to 
Landmark offering  new interest rate products as there was with the government-
owned lender.
Ref: DRN19457082Landmark said in its final response to Mr and Mrs Es complaint that its not able to 
offer new interest  rate products because of restrictions on its regulatory permissions. 
When I questioned  that it accepted that this isnt in fact the case  it could offer new 
interest rate products.  But its chosen not to do so. It says that its not an active  
lender, and isnt trying  to attract new customers through offering low rates. It says its 
taken a commercial decision in the interests  of the financial  management  of its 
business to maintain all its customers on the SVR once their previous interest rate 
products expire.  To that extent, its not treating Mr and Mrs E any differently to any of 
its other customers.
Landmark is a closed lender in that its not taking on new business,  but its still 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  and has to follow its rules. But theres 
nothing in the FCAs rules  that says a lender has to offer new interest rates to its 
customers once their old ones expire. The rules  say that a lender has to treat its 
customers fairly taking account of their best interests; it has to communicate with 
them in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way; it has to notify them  of changes to their 
monthly payments;  and it mustnt take advantage of customers who cant move their 
mortgages elsewhere by treating them differently to other customers with similar  
characteristics.
In this case, Landmark has notified  Mr and Mrs E of changes  to their payments from 
time to time. It isnt treating them differently  to others  of its customers  all customers 
must stay on the SVR once their products expire, just like Mr and Mrs E. So I dont  
think Landmark is in breach  of any of the regulators  rules in not offering them  a new 
rate.
I dont think Landmark  is acting in breach of the terms of the mortgage agreement  
either. Mr and Mrs Es mortgage  offer sets out that they would pay a fixed  rate until 
December 2008,  and thereafter  the SVR. Nothing  in the mortgage offer or the 
mortgage terms say that Mr and Mrs E would be entitled to another fixed  interest  rate 
after that one expires.
Im aware, of course, from my knowledge of the mortgage market that its common  
for borrowers to take a fixed or tracker rate product  and then, at or shortly before its 
expiry, take another rate rather than revert to the SVR. Sometimes thats with their 
existing lender, sometimes its with another lender. But as I say, theres  nothing  in Mr 
and Mrs Es mortgage agreement that says theyre entitled to a new rate  and thats 
also true of most other lenders mortgage  agreements too. 
Ive set out that theres nothing in the regulators rules, and nothing in the mortgage 
contract, that requires Landmark to offer new interest rates.  Nor is it under any other 
legal obligation  to do so.
Thats not the end of the matter though  my role is to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I do that by taking  into account the law, 
regulators rules and guidance, and good industry practice  but ultimately  Im not 
constrained by them if I think fairness  requires me to do something else. 
So the question  I have to answer  is whether, taking into account the rules and the 
mortgage terms, its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  that Landmark has 
refused Mr and Mrs E a new interest rate thats  lower than the SVR.
Ref: DRN19457083Ive thought about this carefully.  Ive taken into account everything  Ive set out above. 
Its very unfortunate  that, through  no fault of their own and through  a series  of events 
entirely out of their control, Mr and Mrs E have ended up with a closed book  lender  
that doesnt offer new rates. But Landmark  is their lender, and legitimately so. Its 
decided not to offer new interest  rates to any customers, including Mr and Mrs E. 
Under current law and regulations, thats  a decision Landmark is entitled  to take. 
Im mindful that if Landmark were to offer new lower  rates to some customers  but not 
others, that could mean some customers were  being  treated  less favourably than 
others with similar  characteristics  which in turn could potentially  cause unfairness. 
But that isnt currently  the case.  
Because Landmark (and its predecessor owner  of this mortgage) is closed to new 
business, it doesnt offer new interest  rate products. However, theres  nothing  in Mr 
and Mrs Es mortgage agreement that would prevent or hinder them re-mortgaging  
elsewhere  theyre  no longer liable for an early repayment charge, for example. As 
Ive said, thats unlikely to be a practical  option in Mr and Mrs Es case. But the 
reason they cant  do that is because of external changes in their circumstances   
changes which arent part of their mortgage contract, arent within  Landmarks 
control, and couldnt  have  been foreseen by any party when they took the mortgage 
out.
Landmarks not treating  Mr and Mrs E any differently  to how it treats  its other 
customers. Its business model  is based on not offering new products  and thats a 
decision about its business its entitled to take. Although theyre  receiving 
government benefits,  and understandably they would prefer  their payments to be 
lower, theres nothing in what  Mr and Mrs E have said or the recent history of their 
account that suggests what theyre  currently required to pay is unaffordable or that 
theyre in financial  difficulty. If they were, there are specific  requirements  around what  
Landmark must fairly do  but they dont arise  in this case.
Theres nothing in the contract, the law or the regulators rules that requires 
Landmark to offer new products. Landmark itself isnt standing in the way of Mr and 
Mrs E moving their mortgage elsewhere.  Theyre not in arrears. Its treating them the 
same as it treats all its other customers. And Im also mindful that while Landmarks 
SVR is significantly higher than new interest  rate products offered by other  lenders, 
its similar to other lenders SVR rates. 
Taking the facts  of this case into account, and taking into account the law, rules  and 
my findings  about  Landmarks  business  model  and the level of its SVR, I dont think  I 
can fairly uphold  this complaint.
Finally, Mr and Mrs E are also concerned that, as the end of the mortgage term 
approaches in the years  to come, they dont have any means of repaying  the capital 
and cant afford to repay it. Theyve said theyd like a term extension and reduced 
payments to allow them to overpay. But because this is an interest  only mortgage, 
not a repayment one, the interest  payments  are the same every month regardless of 
how long the term is. A term extension  wont make any difference  in that respect.
Ref: DRN19457084However, I can understand why theyre  worried about this. If they dont have any 
other means  of repaying their mortgage,  they might  end up in a situation where the 
only option open to them is to sell their property.
The end of the term is around six years  away. That means Mr and Mrs E do have 
some time to explore the various options  open to them  and Id urge them to use the 
time to do just that. 
I know from my knowledge of the mortgage  market and from my experience  of other 
cases that other lenders with closed books,  or who have withdrawn from sections of 
the market, have made arrangements  for their borrowers to consult mortgage 
advisers to see whether  they can move  elsewhere  to a lender that would offer new 
interest rates. The government backed  lender Mr and Mrs E were formerly with does 
this  but so do other banks who have closed,  or closed part of, their books.  
I asked Landmark  whether  it would be willing to arrange for Mr and Mrs E to receive  
mortgage advice   at no cost to them  as other lenders do. It said it was not. It said 
it could refer them to a debt advice charity  or the Money Advice Service.  It said it 
would be able to give advice itself on options with Landmark. It said it had different 
strategic aims to the government-backed lender. It can suggest customers seek 
independent advice  but not arrange  for them do so itself.
I dont think this goes  far enough. I think that where  a lender has closed its book and 
is not offering  new interest rate products to its customers, theres  no obligation on it 
to do so. But at the same  time it has to act fairly,  taking into account the best 
interests of its customers. 
Theres a balance to be struck here. It is, generally  speaking, in the best interests  of 
borrowers to access lower interest  rates. But where  a lenders business model is 
closed, for the reasons Ive given I dont think it would be right for me to require it to 
change that.
Other lenders in a similar position  having closed their book, either in full or to 
certain types of customer  have made  arrangements to refer their customers to 
independent mortgage brokers to help them  move  their mortgage away  to another  
lender if possible  to do so. I think that represents good industry practice, which  is one 
of the factors I have to take into account  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.
I dont think a referral to a debt advice charity, or the Money Advice  Service,  is 
adequate in the context  of the good  practice offered  by other  lenders. Those bodies 
can give advice on Mr and Mrs Es wider  finances,  and advise them about the sorts 
of alternatives that may be open  to them. But theyre  not regulated mortgage 
advisers, able to offer regulated mortgage  advice about specific mortgages Mr and 
Mrs E may be able to apply for, and not able to assist them with an application.
I think the fair outcome in this case  is to recognise  that Landmark need  not offer Mr 
and Mrs E a new interest rate. But because it has chosen not to do so, fairness   
judged against  the good practice of the wider industry  in my view requires it to 
arrange for them to receive dedicated mortgage advice to assist  them  to identify and, 
if possible, apply  for a mortgage with another lender that does offer lower interest 
Ref: DRN19457085rates. Ive said that it might,  in practice, prove difficult for Mr and Mrs E to go to 
another lender. But its something  I think should fairly be explored. 
I therefore intend to require  Landmark to make  arrangements, should  they wish to do 
so, for Mr and Mrs E to receive independent  mortgage advice from a regulated 
mortgage adviser without  charge to them.
If its not possible for Mr and Mrs E to move their mortgage elsewhere, they will need  
to give thought to how the mortgage  is to be repaid at the end of the term. Theyve 
got around six years to do that, and they should take advice  on their options.  And 
theyll need to keep in touch with Landmark and discuss  their options, and any 
proposals they have,  with it.
Landmark will also need to take action during that time. The regulator  has made it 
clear that it expects lenders to keep in contact with borrowers of interest only 
mortgages well before the end of the term, discussing the various options and 
seeking to agree a way in which the mortgage  can be repaid. It should  not simply sit 
back and wait for the end of the term. That may require it to give advice about what  
options are available if Mr and Mrs E remain with Landmark.  
 
So Mr and Mrs E will need to keep  in touch with Landmark and discuss  with it how 
their mortgage is to be repaid. And Landmark  will need to pro-actively contact them  
too. I would expect Landmark to consider what they say and treat any proposals they 
have fairly.  If Mr and Mrs E are unhappy  at any point, theyll be able to complain  at 
that time  but I cant pre-empt  that here.
Landmark accepted my provisional decision, and identified  the regulated provider of 
mortgage advice  it would  be able to refer Mr and Mrs E to.
Mr and Mrs E didnt  accept my provisional decision.  Mr E said my decision didnt  help them 
and its not fair that Landmark doesnt offer new rates like other lenders do  it shouldnt  
have been allowed to buy mortgages  off other  lenders  if its not prepared  to act like other 
lenders. They were overpaying the mortgage  and it wasnt fair that they couldnt access 
lower rates.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs E have  said in reply to my provisional decision.  I do 
understand the position theyve found themselves in, and I appreciate why they wouldnt 
have chosen it, and would prefer to be paying  less for their mortgage  each month.  I 
explained why I couldnt fairly require Landmark to reduce the rate on their mortgage,  and I 
still think thats the case. Its now agreed  to help them explore moving their mortgage  to 
another lender  I dont  know  whether that will be possible for Mr and Mrs E, but if not 
Landmark will need to make sure it treats them fairly in the future, particularly as the end of 
the term approaches.
Ref: DRN19457086my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Landmark Mortgages Limited  to make arrangements for Mr and Mrs E to access regulated 
mortgage advice  at no cost to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1945708