K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr H took out the PPI in 1998 in connection with a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  Mr H didnt agree with 
the adjudicators  conclusions,  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think American Express  made  it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI 
and he chose to take it out. I say this because  Mr H completed and signed a 
separate section  of the credit card application document  to show that he wanted  
the cover. So I think he wouldve realised he had a choice.  
American Express didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have  to check if 
it was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr H got the information he 
needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information American Express gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful for him.
Mr H has told me he was self-employed when he took out the cover.  But the 
credit card application form he signed was completed to show  he was employed. 
So I still think its unlikely that when Mr H applied for the policy  he wouldve been 
affected by any exclusions or limitations that affected self-employed  people.  
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr H off taking out the cover. 
Which means American Express  doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But American Express has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
American Express got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mr H about that. Because 
American Express didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN15506982To put that right, American Express has paid back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1550698