K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to allow  her to port her mortgage to a 
new property and took too long to tell her the outcome of her application. 
background
Miss H had a mortgage with Barclays. Unfortunately  her mother fell ill and so Miss H decided  
to move house to be nearer her parents. She found a buyer for her existing property,  found  
another property  to buy, and asked  Barclays to allow her to port her mortgage.
Miss H says she was initially told this would be a simple straightforward process. But in fact 
she had to make a full application. The application took too long to be dealt with and then 
Barclays refused it because the surveyor  said her new property needed  renovation and 
wasnt suitable to be lent on. Miss H said she could  have  been told that from the start, as 
shed said in the application  she would be renovating the property.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint. He thought  it was reasonable 
for Barclays to rely on what  the surveyor had said. And he didnt think Miss H had been  
misled about what the application involved, or that it had taken an unreasonable time. So 
Miss H asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To port a mortgage  doesnt actually mean transferring the mortgage loan itself from one 
property to another. A mortgage is a loan secured on a property. When  the propertys sold,  
the loan is paid back  and another loan is needed  to buy a new property. Whats ported  is 
not the loan itself, but the interest rate. By porting her mortgage, Miss H would be able to 
keep the preferential interest  rate on her old mortgage and transfer it to the new one.
However, a new mortgage does have  to be applied for. Miss Hs mortgage offer says that 
porting is subject to lending  criteria at the time  what this means is that when she applies 
for the new mortgage,  Barclays will consider her application in line with the regulatory  rules 
and its policies at the time. If its prepared to grant her a new mortgage, it will then port the 
interest rate.
Miss H says she was told an application wouldnt be needed, or that it would be a quick and 
straightforward process. Unfortunately the call in which  she says she was told that isnt 
available. But on balance I dont think its likely that she was given any guarantees about  that 
 and I note the webchat  transcript shes given us does show  that Barclays told her financial 
adviser that a full application would be needed.
When it considered the application, Barclays asked a surveyor  to value the property. The 
purpose of this is to make  sure the new property is good security  for Barclays  to lend 
against. In this case, the surveyor said it wasnt. Thats because part of the property used to 
be a shop and needed to be converted back to a residence, and because  more general 
refurbishment was needed  as well. The surveyor thought the extent of the works  required  
was too much to make  the property an acceptable risk.
Ref: DRN18100522Barclays instructed a qualified surveyor to inspect  the property to see if it was acceptable. 
The surveyor was an independent  professional  and its reasonable for Barclays to rely on 
what he said. I dont think its fair to say that Barclays should have known from the start that 
the property wouldnt  be acceptable; that could only be known for sure once it had been 
inspected. And the fact that another lender was willing to lend doesnt mean Barclays  was 
wrong either;  different lenders have  and are entitled to have  different policies about what 
they do and dont accept.
Looking at everything that happened,  taking  into account what the surveyor  said,  I think 
Barclays made a fair decision. And given that an application had to be made, and the 
application wasnt straightforward in other ways (it also involved the removal  of Miss Hs 
brother who was a guarantor, for example), I dont  think it took an unreasonable  time.
I do understand why, in her particular circumstances, Miss H wanted everything  to happen 
as soon as possible. I was very sorry to learn  that her mother  has since  passed away,  and I 
hope shell accept  my condolences to her and her family. 
I can appreciate why she wanted  to move as quickly as possible and became upset and 
frustrated when she didnt  get an answer straightaway  and when the answer wasnt  the 
one she was hoping  for. Im sure this would have  been upsetting for her at what was already 
a very difficult time. But Ive looked  at everything very carefully and I dont think  Barclays  did 
anything wrong  in the way it handled  the application. So I dont think  it would be fair to 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1810052