K821x#15Complaint
Mr Z complains about a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
Background
In August  2018  Mr Z took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to cover the cost 
of a used car. The car was less than three  years  old and had travelled  less than 24,000  
miles. The cash price of the car was £11,975.
In March 2019 Mr Z noticed  a leak that was causing flooding in the boot of the car. He had it 
inspected and the mechanic said that the sealant  had worn  away, and a temporary repair 
was applied.
At the same time Mr Z complained to Moneybarn.  He said that he felt that the fault would 
have been there when  the car was supplied, so he said it wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
Moneybarn said that because the complaint had been made more than six months after hed 
bought the car, the onus  was on him to show the fault was present at the time of sale. It also 
said that it felt the faults were cosmetic  and were caused by wear and tear. It said that he 
should expect  some cosmetic wear  because the vehicle was three  years  old.
Our investigator thought Mr Zs complaint should be upheld. He didnt think  a reasonable 
person would expect  sealant to crack and cause water to leak into the boot within  the first 
30,000 miles. He said this showed  the car hadnt  been proven to be durable. 
Moneybarn disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision. It said that because  the 
mechanics report had suggested this was a manufacturing problem, it was for the 
manufacturer to resolve.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding this complaint, for the same 
reasons as our investigator.
Moneybarn supplied Mr Z with the car under the conditional sale agreement it had with him. 
Theres a term implied  in the agreement that the car would be of satisfactory  quality. What is 
satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory given 
the price,  description  and other relevant circumstances. In this case this would include things 
such as the age and mileage of the car.
Mr Zs car was three years old and had travelled 23,700 miles when he got it. So, a 
reasonable person might  expect to have to repair or replace some of the parts of the car 
over time.
Hed travelled a further 4,000 miles when he reported the fault to Moneybarn.  In its response 
to the complaint it made two points:
The faults are cosmetic and due to wear and tear; and
The fault lies with the manufacturer and it should repair the fault.
Ref: DRN10236612It also refers to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the Act) and says the onus was on him to 
prove the faults were present at the time of sale.
The Act says that goods must  be of a satisfactory quality. This includes the durability of the 
goods.
Mr Z has provided  a report from an independent mechanic. It states:
The sealer that covers  the roof joint to the tailgate  hinge reinforcement panel has 
split causing the water to leak through it and therefore run through  the inside of the 
inner rear panels  and ending up at the lowest point  - the spare wheel area.
The report  explains this is the cause of the leak, and rules out other  work  that appears  to 
have been done on the rear of the car. Theres nothing to suggest that the leak was caused 
by wear and tear. Like our investigator, I dont think that a reasonable person would expect 
there to be a water leak like this on a three  year old car that cost £11,975. So Im satisfied 
that its more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says that there is a breach of contract where  goods  are not 
of a satisfactory quality.  The Act explains the consumer has a right to have faulty goods 
repaired. And its the trader, in this case Moneybarn, who must pay for the necessary costs  
to do this. It is not for Mr Z to pursue the manufacturer.
I wouldnt expect any person to have to drive around  with a puddle  of water  in the boot of 
their three year old car. And I wouldnt  expect  them to put up with the smell of damp 
upholstery every time they used the car. So I disagree with Moneybarn  that the faults are 
cosmetic.
I find the mechanics report to be persuasive,  and for that reason,  Im satisfied that its more 
likely than not that a fault was present at the time the car was supplied which resulted in a 
flooded boot. Im satisfied this shows the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr Z.
The Act says that in cases  like this, where the fault is identified  after 30 days   and was 
present or developing at the point  of supply  the finance company must be provided with an 
opportunity to repair the fault. As Mr Zs car has yet to be repaired,  I think the fair thing to do 
here is for Moneybarn to arrange for a full repair.
I also agree  with our investigator that Moneybarn should pay Mr Z £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused.  Hes had to pay several visits to garages,  and drive  his car with a smell of 
damp, and had to take care not to leave his possessions in the boot in case they become 
damp.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited must:
refund  Mr Z £86 for the temporary repair previously completed;
repair the fault to a satisfactory standard;
Pay Mr Z £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN10236613Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1023661