K822xcomplaint 
Miss S has complained  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
increased the cost of her pet insurance policy each year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Miss S took out, will continue to cover any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Miss S. It has accepted 
the information it gave Miss S about the policy wasnt as clear  as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay her £1,000  compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been 
caused as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation  in the 
circumstances of Miss Ss complaint.
Miss S has told us shes not happy with the offer RSA has made because  due to the 
increase premiums she has been  forced  to cancel  the policy and is funding her pets ongoing 
vet costs herself. These  costs will exceed  the amount  offered by RSA over the next couple 
of years.  She has also said that she is unable to find another insurer  that will cover  her pets  
pre-existing conditions
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Miss Ss policy is too high, she should have been charged  less for the 
policy or that RSA should offer her a policy with a lower premium in the future.
While Miss Ss premium has seen significant increases, I havent  seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder  
in the same position. So in this respect  I think RSA has treated her fairly..
I understand this situation has caused  Miss S a significant amount of distress  as, due to the 
cost of the policy she has now had to cancel  it, and she cant  find an equivalent  policy 
elsewhere that will cover her pets ongoing  medical  conditions. 
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Miss S the information she needed to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
Ref: DRN12547162If Miss S hadnt taken a lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover at all, and would 
have had to pay for all her pets treatment  herself,  or a reduced level of cover, where  she 
would still have found herself in a situation where  her pets  conditions  were no longer 
covered.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Miss S having cover for ongoing conditions at a fixed or capped premium   this 
type of policy typically  doesnt exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put her in this position. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Miss S has 
experienced. It is a significant award  and I think it fairly compensates  Miss S for the trouble 
and upset shes been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Miss S £1,000  compensation is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March  2020.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1254716