K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mrs B or Halifax sent me any new evidence to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons. I acknowledge that Mrs B disagrees  with the outcome 
Ive reached. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject  
my decision  before 15 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN15949642copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
It seems  that Mrs B took out a PPI policy in 1993 after shed taken out a mortgage in 1985.  
Mrs B paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs B has argued that theres little evidence to show that the policy was sold in 1993. 
I understand that Mrs B has questioned this start date,  but based  on the evidence Ive seen,  
including some of Halifaxs internal  system  screenshots, I think  that 1993 is the most likely 
start date for the PPI. 
In situations like this, where the sale happened  so long ago and theres a lack of 
documentary evidence,  Ive to decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened   
based on the available evidence. The alternative is that I say theres not enough  evidence  to 
make a decision and neither  party  gets a resolution  to this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided not to currently uphold Mrs B complaint because:
Unfortunately there arent any notes available from the sale, and understandably Mrs B 
might not recall it clearly after so long. There are also no documents available to me from 
the time of the sale, which is not at all surprising  considering the sale took place over 
25 years  ago. 
So its difficult to know how the policy was positioned with Mrs B. In order for me to 
uphold this complaint for this reason, Id have to think  that Mrs Bs account was 
more likely than that of Halifax. But as these events  happened so long ago and as 
theres no documentary  evidence to support either partys  position, I have to conclude 
that Mrs Bs account is only as likely  not more likely. So on balance  I cannot safely  
conclude that the policy wasnt presented as optional or that Mrs B wasnt  given  a choice 
to take PPI.
Ive also noted  that Mrs B complained initially that she was told she had to take PPI as 
part of the mortgage acceptance.  But it seems that this PPI policy was taken out some 
Ref: DRN15949643years after the mortgage  in 1985.  So I havent  seen  evidence  to support what  Mrs B has 
said. 
Ive considered that Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs B, and it seems to have been 
right for her based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
As I cant safely say what was discussed  at the time of sale, in fairness to Mrs B Ive 
assumed that Halifax couldve  explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even  
if it had, I think  Mrs B would still have bought it. I say this because  Mrs B was taking on a 
significant and long term financial commitment and given  the potential consequences  if 
she was unable to make her mortgage  repayments, I think  that she could  have found  the 
PPI useful.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But Mrs B 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Bs comments,  but these  points dont currently change  my 
decision. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint.
If either  Mrs B or Bank  of Scotland plc have anything further to add, they should do so by 
27 April 2019. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1594964