K821x#15Complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the response of Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited  (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the CCA).
Background
In or around February 2015,  Mr W was contacted by a representative  of a company Ill call 
S to discuss purchasing  a solar panel  system to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative from S at his home, Mr W decided to purchase the solar panel 
system with a 10 year fixed  sum loan agreement from Barclays  Partner Finance (BPF). 
The solar  panels  were subsequently  installed at his home. Mr W says that S told him that the 
payments hed receive from the feed-in-tariff (FIT) would be sufficient to cover  the cost of 
his monthly loan repayments resulting  in his system  being self-funded. Mr W has said that 
this has not turned out to be the case.
In October  2018, Mr W, via his representative, made  a claim under section 75 of the CCA to 
BPF. Mr W said what S had told him about  the about his solar panels being  self-funding  was 
a misrepresentation,  and it was this misrepresentation that had induced him to enter  into the 
contract with S. When making the section 75 claim to BPF, Mr W provided  a number of 
documents including his loan agreement with BPF, a letter titled Project Funding, his MCS  
certificate, some marketing literature from S and a copy  of the quotation for the system.
In its final response letter  BPF said Mr Ws solar panels were  performing better  than the 
estimates hed been provided and that there  was no evidence in any of the information 
provided to support the claim that his monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
payments.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr W referred  his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. They thought that the benefits of the solar 
panel system had been misrepresented to Mr W.
BPF didnt  accept the investigators view of the complaint. As an agreement couldnt  be 
reached, the complaint  has been passed  to me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 and section  75 of the CCA. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services  bought  using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
Ref: DRN15151102the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr W paid for the solar panel system with a fixed sum loan, BPF agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr W could claim against BPF  the creditor  for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by S in the same  way he could have  claimed 
against S, the supplier.  So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding  what  is fair in 
the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr W and 
S, as the supplier,  are deemed to have  been  conducted by S as an agent of BPF.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must  decide on the balance  of probabilities  
that is, what I consider  to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr W says that he was contacted by S and during a subsequent sales meeting told that the 
solar panel  system would be entirely self-financing. I havent  seen anything to suggest  that 
Mr W had previously shown an interest in solar panels before he was called by S. It is hard 
to see why Mr W would agree to the installation of the solar panel  system, paid for by a loan, 
which would increase his monthly  outgoings.  And based on this, I think it is unlikely that he 
wouldve agreed to the solar  panel system and a loan with BPF, unless hed been led to 
believe that it would be self-funding and come at no additional cost to him. Therefore, I 
accept Mr Ws version  of events.
The documentation
Ive gone on to consider the paperwork that has been provided to see if there was anything 
contained within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldnt be self-funding.
Firstly, Ill consider the loan agreement. This sets out the amount being borrowed,  the 
interest to be charged, total amount payable,  the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly loan repayments. This has been signed by Mr W. Im satisfied that this is clear  and 
there is no reference to the solar panel system  being self-funding.  Having said that, it doesnt  
make any reference to any potential savings and income from the solar panel system, so I 
dont think it wouldve allowed Mr W to compare the cost of the solar  panel system to any 
benefit he may have  received or, have been  promised.
Ill now turn to the document  titled Project Funding.  This letter  is addressed to Mr W and 
was sent to him after he had agreed to enter  into the contract with S. This is a one-sided A4 
letter which states  that the finance  agreement with BPF has been agreed and gives Mr W 14 
days to withdraw from the loan agreement.  At the bottom  of this letter, in small font, it goes 
on to say:
IMPORTANT NOTICE (CONTRACT): If you have been offered any promotional  package by 
your supplier with any form of Your money  back in 5 years or Your  home  improvements 
can be free if you take advantage of our recommendation / promotion scheme, or if you 
have relied upon any representation  or inducement  of money  or other  benefits  to be given to 
you in future  when making your decision to enter the contract to purchase  goods or services 
 THEN PLEASE INFORM THIS OFFICE IMMEDIATELY.
Ref: DRN15151103So, Ive considered whether this would have been sufficient to alert Mr W to the possibility of 
his loan payments  not being  met by the benefits from the solar panel system and therefore  
the system not being self-funding.
I consider the wording  quoted above  to be standard wording given to all consumers that 
have taken finance and I dont think it would  be reasonable  to assume this meant that Mr W 
couldve understood from this statement that his system wouldnt be self-funding as he had 
been led to believe.
Ill now turn to the quotation that was provided  by S to Mr W when he agreed to the 
installation of the solar  panel system.  Mr Ws personal details are at the top of this 
document. It shows the cost of the system  to be £7,995 but crucially, in my opinion, doesnt  
include the cost of the finance. Therefore, the £7,995 isnt the true cost of the system to Mr 
W. The true cost to him, including interest was £12,404. In my view a significant difference.
This also shows that the estimated first year benefit to Mr W to be £824. There  is no 
reference to the true cost of the system, including interest, and his monthly loan repayments 
so, similarly to the loan agreement, I dont  think it would have allowed Mr W to compare the 
true cost of the system  to any benefit  he may receive, or have been promised.
Im satisfied that it is more  likely than not that S told Mr W that the solar panel system would 
be self-funding and come at no additional cost to him. So Ive considered  whether it was 
reasonable for him to have relied  on that misrepresentation when  entering  into the contract 
given the documents that were given to him. Ive also considered whether any of the 
documents given  to him were  sufficiently clear to counter the misrepresentation made  by S.
Taking all of the above into account, I consider that the documents provided to Mr W were 
presented in such a way that it would have  been difficult for him to make  an informed 
decision without relying on what he was told by the representative of S. So, Im persuaded it 
is reasonable for Mr W to have relied  on what he was told by S representative when he 
agreed to enter into the contract.
Has Mr W suffered a loss?
My view is that for the solar panels to be self-funding and come at no additional cost to 
Mr W, the monthly savings and benefits  he would achieve should  have been sufficient to 
meet his monthly  loan repayments.
It is clear from the information  that has been provided by Mr W and his representative that 
this has not been the case and there has been  a shortfall between his monthly loan 
repayments and any benefits he has received from the solar panel system.
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I find that Mr W has suffered a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation made by S. And as BPF has equal liability for the misrepresentation made  
by S, I find that it is responsible for Mr Ws loss.
Fair compensation
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
Ref: DRN15151104one, determining compensation  isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at fair 
compensation taking  account of the particular circumstances.
My view of Mr Ws complaint is that it isnt so much about the solar  panels themselves but 
that he was led to believe that they would be self-funding. And based on this I dont think  it 
would be fair or proportionate to require  the removal of the solar panels from his home.  
Rather, I think  the fair outcome here is to put Mr W in a position where the solar panel 
system is cost neutral over the 10 year loan term, meaning that hes not disadvantaged  by 
the misrepresentation.
Normally, by recalculating  the loan this way, Mr Ws monthly  repayments  would reduce, 
meaning that he wouldve paid more each  month  than he should have resulting in an 
overpayment balance.  And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly  
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement.  So, I think the fairest  resolution would be to let Mr W 
have the following options as to how he would like the overpayments  to be used:
a)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly  payment  resulting in the loan finishing early,
b)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly  payment until the end of the loan term,
c)the overpayments are returned  to Mr W and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment  resulting in the loan finishing early, or
d)the overpayments are returned  to Mr W and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr W accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  at the time that Mr W first complained  to 
BPF that means his complaint should  have  been  upheld. The fact that this didnt happen 
undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset and consequently Ill make an award  of £100 for 
this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ws complaint should  be upheld.  In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  to:
allow Mr W to keep the solar  panels,
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr W from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr Ws electricity bills and FIT statements to do this.
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made to the date of settlement,
allow Mr W to decide how hed like his overpayments to be used, using  the four 
options described above; and,
pay Mr W £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN15151105*If Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much  its taken off. It 
should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one so he can claim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2021.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1515110