K820x#14complaint
Miss C says Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited didnt pay her enough when she 
claimed on her motorcycle insurance  policy after her scooter  was written-off. 
background
Miss C bought the scooter in September  2017 for £1,650. In October 2018 it was stolen. It 
was later found, vandalised. Markerstudy  said it was a total loss. Its engineer  looked  at the 
national trade guides  to check  what its market  value was, and offered Miss C £1,100 for it. 
She said that wasnt enough. She found adverts online for vehicles she thought  were similar 
to hers advertised at higher prices.  
Markerstudy said it didnt rely on adverts,  and that anyway Miss C had provided an advert for 
a bike with very low mileage. But it also said it would  consider an advert  showing  a bike with 
similar mileage  and of similar  age to Miss Cs bike. Miss A also queried the £350 
Markerstudy deducted from its offer for her excess.  She thought it was only £50. But her 
broker confirmed that Markerstudy had used the correct sum. 
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Cs complaint.  He checked the two valuations  
Markerstudy said it had found  in the trade guides.  They were in line with those  he found. The 
investigator also looked at a third trade  guide. The valuation given in it was much out of line 
with the other two, so he disregarded it. He thought  Markerstudy had acted reasonably in the 
sum it offered Miss C and in not relying on adverts. He said we dont give much weight to 
advertised prices, as theyre  usually inflated to allow for negotiation. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
Miss Cs policy  says the most Markerstudy  will pay for a vehicle is its market value. It says 
market value at the time of loss will be assessed by an engineer,  using the national trade 
guides. We think the best way to find the likely  market value of a vehicle is to look at the 
national trade guides.  The valuations in them  are from extensive research into likely selling 
prices. I think it was fair for Markerstudy  to take this approach in valuing Miss Cs scooter.   
As the investigator  said, we dont place much  weight on the prices  set out in adverts. In 
general they dont  reflect  selling prices.  So even if Miss C had found a scooter very similar to 
hers in age and mileage, I think its unlikely to have  sold for the asking price. I wouldnt have 
expected Markerstudy  to change its valuation based on that.  
 
Markerstudy told us the valuations for Miss Cs scooter were  £1,037  and £1,107. The 
investigator found identical valuations when he checked the trade guides. So Miss C can be 
assured that Markerstudy didnt make  an error  when getting  the prices  it used. But some of 
Markerstudys documents say the offer it made to Miss C was only £1,000.  The investigator 
checked with it that £1,100 was the actual sum paid (minus the policy  excess).  
I understand why Miss C believes Markerstudys offer was too low. Shed paid £550 more  
than that for the scooter just over a year previously. She thought the depreciation on it over a 
Ref: DRN13192112year would only be 10%. But the evidence in the trade  guides  is clear. Its possible Miss C 
paid too much for the bike in 2017. Or it may just have lost more value than she expected.   
As Miss Cs policy excess was £350,  she was only entitled to £750 from Markerstudy. It was 
fair to deduct the excess, and Miss C had agreed to that when she bought  the policy. But it 
would still have been disappointing  not to have more money  to put towards  a new scooter. 
Despite my sympathy for Miss Cs situation,  I think Markerstudy acted reasonably  in dealing 
with her claim, so I cant uphold her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1319211