K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains Nationwide  Building Society  declined his application for a credit card after 
being told his application was successful.
background
In January 2019, Mr F applied for a credit card online. Mr F went  through  the application 
process and says he received confirmation in step four of the process  that his application 
had been approved. Mr F is unhappy as he was later told by Nationwide that his application 
was declined.
Nationwide acknowledged  that step four - which said Mr Fs application was successful - 
may have  misled Mr F. And because of this, they agreed to pay Mr F £150 compensation in 
recognition of the inconvenience it may have caused  him. Nationwide  say that the final step 
of the application process,  step five, confirmed further checks wouldve needed to be carried 
out before  completing Mr Fs application.  And that theyd  be in touch with Mr F to let him 
know whether the application could be progressed.
Nationwide say the reason why Mr Fs application was later declined was due to adverse 
information on his credit file. Nationwide also say as a responsible lender, itd be 
irresponsible of them if they didnt consider Mr Fs financial status  as part of the decision 
when assessing  any type of lending  application.
Mr F has asked for a higher amount of compensation for the distress caused and for the 
search, carried out by Nationwide during the application process, to be cleared from his 
credit file.
Our investigator looked into this complaint. She said step three  of the application process 
confirmed Mr Fs application would be subject to credit searches and so she didnt think it 
was wrong for the searches to appear  on Mr Fs credit file. She also said step five confirmed 
further checks needed to be carried out before the application could be completed.  Lastly,  
our investigator said Nationwides compensation of £150 was fair in the circumstances of the 
complaint so she didnt  ask Nationwide to do anything more.
Mr F disagreed. He remained of the opinion that it was clear from step four of the application 
process his application had been approved. And didnt think  it was fair to then be told his 
application wasnt successful. Mr F says whilst he was able to obtain  alternative credit,  hed 
like more compensation for the distress caused. So the case has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwides search appearing on Mr Fs credit file
Mr F has sent us a screenshot of what he saw at step four of the application process but he 
didnt copy the whole  screen. Nationwide have sent us a sample  of what Mr F likely would 
have seen at step three of the process  which Ive carefully looked at.
Ref: DRN15590632Step three explains if you accept  your quote today by selecting  Continue at the bottom of 
the screen, this will show on your credit history  for other  lenders  to see. While this is a 
normal of many credit applications,  please  bear in mind it might affect your ability to obtain  
credit elsewhere for a short period  of time.
At the bottom of this screenshot, it says next step:  perform credit check  and wouldve 
required Mr F to press  continue if he was satisfied with this.  
Mr F has sent us a copy of what he saw at step four. So I think  its reasonable to believe Mr 
F pressed  continue at step three to be able to move  on to step four. Mr F also 
acknowledged in his response  to the view that step three confirmed subject  to checks. 
Therefore, Im satisfied  Mr F agreed  to having a credit check carried  out which  would have 
appeared as a search on his file. So I wont be ordering Nationwide to remove  the search 
from Mr Fs credit file. 
incorrect information in the application  process
Mr F told us that although step three  did mention his application would be subject to credit 
checks, hes unhappy that step four of the process confirmed his application was approved.
Ive looked at the screenshot Mr F sent us of step four. When looking at this, it does say 
weve approved  your application.  So I can see why Mr F believed his application to be 
approved at this point.  But I can see from that screenshot there was at least  one more step 
in the application process   step five. 
Nationwide again  sent us a sample screenshot of step five of the application process.  This 
says further checks would need to be carried out before the application is completed. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest Mr F would  have seen a different  screen or wording. So Im satisfied 
that he should have realised from step five that his application may not have been approved 
in full, despite step four suggesting it was approved.
Nationwide also sent us the email  they sent to Mr F after he completed  his online 
application. The email  says were just checking your application to see if we can offer you 
this credit card. Well be in touch within the next 7 to 10 working days  to let you know 
whether we need further information  and if we can offer you this product. So I think Mr F 
should have been aware that his application hadnt  been approved  in full at this point, or at 
the very least had reason to question  if it had.
So, taking everything  into account Im satisfied that page three of the application process  
showed Mr Fs credit file would be searched. And Im also satisfied that page five of the 
application process showed Nationwide  were assessing Mr Fs application - and this was 
then said in an email  to Mr F. Mr F hasnt  made  us aware of any losses as a result of being  
told at step three of the application process that the credit card had been approved. So, Im 
satisfied the £150 compensation Nationwide have  paid Mr F is fair and reasonable for the 
distress hes experienced.
Mr F tells us that Nationwide have  since updated  their processes  and is disappointed this 
didnt happen  earlier. I can appreciate  Mr Fs frustration  with this, but its Nationwides 
decision on whether  to change their processes  after receiving feedback. And for the reasons  
I've explained above  I'm satisfied Nationwide have resolved this complaint fairly.
Ref: DRN15590633my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1559063