K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC, trading as Yorkshire  Bank, mis-sold her 
Signature packaged  bank account  in 2011. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a 
claims management company.
background
Ms R upgraded to the Signature account  from a free account  in February 2011 during a visit 
to one of the banks  branches.  She says she wasnt told about  fee free accounts and thought 
the fee was compulsory. She says she was told the account was the best one for her, but 
she didnt need  any of the benefits  that she was paying for. She wants Yorkshire to refund 
the account fees, plus interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Ms R didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
The bank didnt fully explain  the account  terms and conditions.
She was mis-led  into paying for an expensive  account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Ms Rs complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I dont think Yorkshire mis-sold the 
Signature account  and Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Ms R was given  a clear choice in taking this account.  At 
this point, it may also help for me to explain that I have to make my decision based on what 
I think is most likely  to have happened. When the parties to a complaint disagree  about what 
happened (such  as here) and theres a lack of evidence  from the time,  I have  to think about  
what I have been  provided with, what  I do know and the wider  circumstances at the time. In 
other words, what l have to do, in this case, is decide what I think is likely to have happened 
having weighed  up what both Ms R and Halifax have been able to provide me with.
Ms R upgraded to the URCA from a free account shed had for around five years.  So I think 
Ms R wouldve  known  she couldve had a fee free account if thats what she really wanted. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that the bank told Ms R she couldnt  continue with her fee 
free account. So, overall, I think that Ms R chose to take the Signature account after being 
given a choice.
I cant be certain exactly what  was discussed  during the meeting but I think  its likely that the 
member of staff told Ms R about  the account  and its features but didnt provide a personal 
recommendation. I havent seen anything to suggest that an assessment of Ms Rs demands 
and needs was carried out, which is what shouldve happened  if the Signature  account had 
been recommended. 
Ref: DRN11659152So, overall, I dont  think Yorkshire recommended the Signature account to Ms R so it didnt 
have to check if it was suitable  for her. But it did have to give her clear  enough  information  
so that she could make an informed  choice about  whether  to take the account.
When Ms Rs account was upgraded it included worldwide travel  insurance, breakdown  
cover and mobile phone  and gadget  insurance. It also included a number of other  benefits  
and features such as preferential  overdraft and savings rates.
I cant see any reason why Ms R couldnt have used some of these  benefits  if shed wanted 
to. She told us she didnt  need the breakdown cover because  she only drove  locally. But she 
did go on to use this cover which suggests to me that, when the account was sold,  she did 
think the cover would be of use to her. It also looks like she had an overdraft.
I accept Ms R may not have needed  or wanted  all the benefits, including travel  insurance. 
But packaged bank  accounts are rarely tailored to individual consumers. They  are sold as a 
pot of benefits  for a set price, which inevitably means some benefits end up appealing more 
than others. But this doesnt mean  that the account was mis-sold.
Ms R may now, with the benefit of hindsight, think she shouldnt have upgraded. And given 
what she mightve read or heard about packaged bank  accounts, I can understand why she 
believes her Signature account might have been  mis-sold. But I think  its most likely Ms R 
chose to take the account. And while she may now believe  the account hasnt proved value 
for money,  Ive not seen  enough here to make me think that Yorkshire misled  her. Or that 
she wasnt eligible to use the key features of the account. So I dont think  Yorkshire mis-sold 
the account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1165915