K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  a number of problems they experienced using  their 
Nationwide Building  Society account  cards abroad.
background
Mr and Mrs C opened joint Nationwide accounts in 2017. In early 2018  they travelled  to the 
Far East for a holiday. They complain about a number of problems they had in using  their 
cards abroad and also that Nationwide didnt register  their Power  of Attorney documents  on 
the accounts. Mr and Mrs C say in summary they tried to speak to Nationwide  about the 
problems on a number  of occasions  but certain security questions were  failed. They  say that 
if they had been sent security codes before they left for holiday then this wouldve  avoided 
the problems.
Nationwide says it has a duty to protect  customers accounts and Mr C during a call couldnt  
recall details of a password that was set up when the account was opened. It says the 
security codes it sent Mr and Mr C whilst they were on holiday were telephone banking  
codes and not related to this issue. It also says that it had previously registered a Power of 
Attorney on other accounts  but not these  accounts. Nationwide  has accepted Mr and Mrs C 
were caused  inconvenience and has paid them  £250 compensation.
Mr and Mrs C brought  their complaint to us but our investigator thought Nationwide had dealt 
fairly with it and had paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. He thought the 
code that was sent was a telephone banking code, and wouldnt have made  any difference  
to the security procedure.  He didnt think Nationwide staff had made a mistake  by not 
applying the Power  of Attorney documents onto the new accounts.  And that it had fairly 
applied security measures  when Mr C failed security questions.
Mr and Mrs C do not accept that view and say they did provide Nationwide  with the Power  of 
Attorney documents.  They also say that if they had been given the security numbers that 
Nationwide sent them whilst abroad, then they wouldve cleared security.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
conclusion that Nationwide  has dealt with this complaint fairly by paying  a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation. I realise Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed by my 
decision.
Ive no doubt that Mr and Mrs C were caused  distress and inconvenience in dealing with 
what took place.  Ive listened to the calls between them and Nationwide  and I appreciate 
their concern  and how anxious they were.  But Im also satisfied that banks and building 
societies have a duty to protect customers money and have to use security measures to do 
so. Having listened to the calls Im satisfied that on some of the calls Mr C was unable  to 
provide answers  to some of Nationwides questions   so in those circumstances I dont  think  
Nationwide made  a mistake by applying those security measures and on occasions refusing 
to continue with a call. But I also make it clear  that I think Nationwide could also have taken  
into account Mr and Mrs Cs position and circumstances and dealt with some of the 
problems in a more sympathetic manner. So I think it fair that Nationwide  should  pay 
compensation but I think that £250 compensation fairly reflects  whats happened  here.
Ref: DRN14279702I appreciate Mr and Mrs C say that they shouldve been sent the telephone security codes 
before they left for holiday  and they wouldve meant  they wouldve passed security. But I 
dont think they wouldve  made any difference. Im satisfied  these  were  codes for telephone 
banking and not related  to the security questions they were asked. I also think  it more likely 
they were generated following Mr and Mrs Cs calls to Nationwide whilst abroad.
I also appreciate Mr and Mrs C say they gave  Nationwide  the Power  of Attorney documents  
when the accounts were  opened. Nationwide say they were not. In those circumstances I 
cant be sure what happened but dont think it wouldve  made much difference to what took 
place. Mrs C also accepts during the first call to Nationwide  that this issue  isnt the main  
problem in any event.  
Overall I think  this complaint highlights  the difficult balance about  security and fraud on an 
account and a customers use of their own money.  Im satisfied that there are areas of this 
complaint that Nationwide couldve  dealt  with differently. But I dont require it to do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide has paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation 
and I dont require  it to do anything further  in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1427970