K822xcomplaint
Mr T summarised his complaint about Financial  Administration Services  Limited (trading as 
Fidelity) in an email to our adjudicator. He referred to two key issues  that he described as 
follows:
technical issues with Fidelitys online systems that meant he couldnt get an accurate 
valuation of his investments  in order to trade. This led to a number of prolonged and 
distressing telephone  conversations when he brought it to Fidelitys attention.
further prolonged and distressing telephone  conversations to rectify account issues,  
one of which resulted  in mandate being issued that should  have been issued and 
resolved at the outset.
background
Mr T held stock and share ISA investments with Fidelity. I understand he has now sold all of 
his holdings.
Towards the end of 2017, Mr T raised a number  of concerns with Fidelity. My understanding 
of the main issues and what  happened  is as follows.
In September  2017, Mr T queried  why there  was a nominal  cash balance in his 
account. The reason for this was that Fidelity had made  changes  meaning it only 
held whole shares and all partial  shares were sold on his behalf. Its provided a copy 
of a letter addressed to Mr T (dated August  2017) that I understand he says he never 
received. 
While discussing  this with Fidelity on the telephone, it appears there was some 
confusion over what he could do with the money. I understand the correct answer 
was that it was reserved to pay service fees and couldnt be withdrawn. 
Unfortunately, it took some time and a second  call before this was explained to Mr T. 
Fidelity accepted this should have been resolved much more  quickly  and, in 
recognition of that, said it was paying £50 into his bank  account. 
In October 2017, Mr T spoke to Fidelity about  a form (the MIFID form) hed been 
asked to complete.  It appears he felt it was complicated and unclear. Fidelity said the 
form was created to capture information required by the regulator,  the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA), and explained  why it was laid out the way it was.
Around the same time, there were also technical  issues on Fidelitys  website that 
meant it wasnt displaying an accurate valuation of Mr Ts account.  Fidelity 
apologised after this was raised by Mr T. Its also said these was part of general 
issue, that didnt  only affect Mr Ts account, following the introduction  of a new 
administration system. But that this didnt actually prevent him trading, either online 
or by telephone.
There were  issues  with a trade  Mr T placed  on 8 November 2017.  Fidelity says this 
wasnt due to any technical problem, but rather because he asked for payment to be 
made to an account it hadnt received details of previously and this meant  a separate  
electronic verification  was required. Because Mr T failed the electronic check, Fidelity 
says Mr T had to verify his details by telephone instead.
Ref: DRN15929432During this call, Fidelity  accepted Mr T was placed  on hold for an extended  period 
while its operators established details of the deal hed placed.  It apologised for this 
and accepted the call should  have been handled  a lot quicker. It also accepted  its 
website should  have been clearer about what was going on. But its also explained 
that despite the additional checks,  the sale was correctly placed  on 8 November 
2017  meaning  Mr T received the price he should have based on when he 
instructed the sale - and the money  was released shortly afterwards once the 
additional verification was complete.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. He didnt  believe the issues  raised  
by Mr T had prevented him trading or led to him being disadvantaged. But he did feel, and 
noted it had admitted as much, that Fidelity  could have handled some of its telephone  
contact with Mr T better.  So he recommended  it pay further compensation of £150. This is in 
addition to the £50 Ive mentioned above.
Fidelity agreed to pay the additional compensation. Mr T initially  said hed accept, but then 
changed his mind and asked for his case to be reviewed. He made  the following key points:
He lost a considerable amount of capital due to Fidelitys system errors. 
He was still experiencing issues in obtaining  a pin code for his account.
The issues hes raised are serious  and Fidelitys ongoing failure to deal with them  
has caused him extreme anguish and frustration.
He contacted Fidelitys complaint handler  to discuss his complaint and he said she 
admitted the amount of £150  was particularly low and that it was ultimately expecting 
to pay more. 
He told us hed accept £900  to settle  his complaint.
Once it was told Mr T wasnt accepting the offer, Fidelity  said it wasnt entirely  happy  with the 
adjudicators proposal either but reluctantly agreed  to pay because  it didnt think  it was worth 
pursuing further. It then said it would  also like the adjudicators proposals to be reconsidered.
Our adjudicator then obtained recordings of a number of Mr Ts telephone conversations 
with Fidelity during  the course of the issues hes complaining about, as well as his recent  
conversation with its complaint handler.  He set out his views of each recording in an email  to 
Mr T, in which he concluded the amount of compensation hed proposed  was still 
appropriate. Referring  to Mr Ts conversation with Fidelitys complaint handler, he didnt think  
she said it would have  been willing to pay a much  higher amount.
Mr T responded to say he required more compensation and wanted to push  for a higher 
award. He maintains hes lost money  because of Fidelitys system errors that meant  he 
wasnt able to trade when he wanted to. He also feels Fidelity hasnt provided the service he 
paid for and that his fees should be reimbursed. 
Ref: DRN15929433my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions for much the same  reasons.
I think its relevant to explain here that the ombudsman  service isnt the industry regulator. 
That means we dont set the rules for financial businesses  to follow  and we dont police the 
industry to make sure those rules are followed.  Its for this reason that I wont be 
commenting further on Mr Ts concerns about  the MIFID form he was asked  to complete. We 
also dont have the power to fine or punish a business for its mistakes.  That instead falls 
under the remit  of the FCA.
Our role is instead to consider  individual disputes and reach an outcome we think is fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of each  case. Where  we think  a business has 
made an error, the main aim of any award  we make is to return  the consumer  to the position 
he/she would be in but for the error.  That means we do see cases involving errors that dont 
result in the consumer  being disadvantaged  and in which no award  is made.
As Ive outlined above, its clear there  were problems with Fidelitys systems that affected Mr 
T and other areas where it should have provided a better service.  Im pleased  to see it 
accepted and apologised for many of these  issues. In deciding  how it should put things right,  
Ive considered whether Mr T has been  financially disadvantaged.
Mr T says hes lost considerable  money  due to the incorrect valuations appearing on 
Fidelitys website, but hes not provided  any evidence of this, for example details of trades  he 
wanted to make that didnt proceed, to support this. Fidelity says the technical  problems  
didnt actually prevent  customers  from trading and Ive seen nothing to show otherwise. I can 
see there were issues with the  trade  he placed  on 8 November  2017,  but these dont appear 
to have prevented  the sale being  made on the correct date and at the correct price.
In the circumstances, and while I appreciate the problems  hes outlined  would  have been  
frustrating, I dont think theres sufficient evidence for me to conclude Mr T has been  
financially disadvantaged or that hes suffered a loss for which he should be compensated. 
Im also conscious Fidelity continued  to administer and manage his account  and I dont  think  
it would  be reasonable for me to tell it to reimburse  his fees. Particularly  as the technical  
problems didnt prevent him trading.
This notwithstanding, I think its clear the problems  he experienced have caused Mr T some  
unnecessary trouble  and upset. The impact this had on him, and therefore the amount of 
compensation to award, isnt necessarily straightforward to assess. But in the 
circumstances, I think  compensation totalling  £200 (including the £50 Fidelity said it was 
going to pay in 2017) is fair and reasonable.
I note Mr T thinks Fidelity  would be willing to pay more than this. But its not for me to 
negotiate on his behalf or push for the highest possible amount. Instead, my role is to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. My decision is then binding on 
Fidelity if Mr T accepts  it. 
Ref: DRN15929434my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mr T accepts my decision,  Financial  Administration Services Limited must pay him 
compensation totalling £200. Assuming it did pay £50 into his account as it said it would in 
2017, it would only need to pay a further £150 now.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1592943