K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that a car he financed  through a hire purchase agreement with 
Secure Trust Bank Plc is not of satisfactory  quality. He also complains that VAT was applied  
to the purchase  price  and financed by the agreement which he thinks  is unfair. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
27 February 2020. My provisional decision is attached below and forms part of my final 
decision. 
Secure Trust hasnt  responded  to my provisional decision. 
Mr C didnt accept my provisional decision in response he said:
the vehicle  was grossly mis-sold - the VAT, no matter what  was stated, was not 
disclosed at the point of sale
if Secure Trust  reclaimed  VAT, but continued  to charge him the full amount of the 
agreement, this is unlawful
the previous  owners have still not been  disclosed
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I havent  seen  any 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
Neither side has provided any further evidence about the problems Mr C had with the car. 
So, I still dont think theres  enough  evidence to show that the car wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality or that Secure  Trust  should reimburse  Mr C for the costs  hed incurred repairing the 
car. And I havent  seen anything which makes me think the car was mis-sold.
Mr C was required to pay VAT when purchasing the car and the VAT applied  is clearly 
stated on the invoice which Mr C signed  at the point of sale.  So, I dont agree with Mr Cs 
assertion that the VAT wasnt disclosed  at the point of sale. 
Secure Trust provided finance  on the full purchase price  and this is what  Mr C agreed to pay 
back along with the associated interest. Mr C hasnt said what  law he thinks  Secure Trust 
has broken, but as Ive previously explained,  I dont think its treated Mr C unfairly  and hes 
able to contact  HMRC directly to make his concerns about this known. 
I cant say for sure what  the previous owners  used the car for, but as I explained in my 
provisional decision I think H had done enough  to let Mr C know  the car could  be an 
ex-lease and even  if Mr C had known for sure that it was, I think  he still would have gone 
ahead with the purchase. So, Im not asking Secure Trust to do anything for this part of Mr 
Cs complaint.
Overall, I dont  think Secure Trust has treated Mr C unfairly so Im not asking it to do 
anything more. 
Ref: DRN19841532my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Secure Trust Bank  Plc.  Under  the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my 
decision before  14 June 2020.
Christopher Bick
ombudsman
Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr C complains that a car he financed  through a hire purchase agreement with 
Secure Trust Bank Plc is not of satisfactory  quality. He also complains that VAT was applied  
to the purchase  price  and financed by the agreement which he thinks  is unfair. 
background
Ref: DRN19841533Mr C was supplied with a used car in August 2015 from a dealer who Ill refer to as H. Mr C 
arranged to collect the car via email and phone. So, he hadnt seen, or test drove the car 
before he collected  it. The car cost £9,199.00 and was financed  through a hire purchase 
agreement with Secure  Trust.  Under  the agreement Mr C was required to pay a total of 
£18,931.43 by making  60 monthly payments of £308.63 and a final payment of £413.63. 
Mr C contacted H the same day he collected  it, He said he expected  more  vehicle for what  I 
paid for and the mileage on collection was 37,500 miles rather than 36,000 which  it had 
been advertised at. He explained the cigarette lighter didnt  work  and he needed to use it as 
a power point for working  and charging devices. He also raised  concerns  about the VAT 
applied to the vehicle, he said the application of VAT meant  he got less vehicle for his 
money and was paying interest on the VAT which he didnt think was reasonable. 
In August  2015  Mr C also pointed out several  other  issues with the car, he said there was a 
problem with the drivers  front wheel and noises such as whining and rubbing.  
An appointment was made for Mr C to take the car in for H to inspect and repair it. But 
correspondence continued between them on the VAT issue.  
The account  statements  show  Mr C made all the payments towards  the agreement  on time 
and in full until January  2018 when his direct  debit payment was returned  unpaid. It was 
subsequently collected later in the month.  But Mr Cs February  and March  2018 direct debits 
were also returned  unpaid and Mr C hasnt made a payment towards the account since then. 
In April 2018 Secure  Trust sent Mr C a notice of termination. Mr C responded  the same  
month, he explained his bank account  had recently been compromised which caused him a 
number of issues. He raised concerns over the VAT which had been applied to the vehicle 
and whether this had been correctly disclosed  He also referenced a legal  case brought by 
the Advertising Standards  Agency about the disclosure  of previous owners of a vehicle. He 
said that if the car was ex-rental, or similar this should have been highlighted to him before 
he acquired it.  Mr  C also said hed had some minor issues with the car, one of which  was 
the bodywork.  
Mr C discussed this over the phone  with a representative from Secure Trust in May 2018 
and chased a response by email later the same month.  He said:  
he had been  charged interest  on the full cost of the car despite H being able to 
reclaim the VAT charged on the car from HMRC.
the vehicles  history hadnt been  adequately disclosed  to him.
he had several issues  with the car and had been required to replace the DPF (Diesel 
Particulate Filter). 
he had to replace  the flywheel, which had also damaged the clutch and cost him 
£915.00. 
there had been a persistent problem  with the ABS light which H failed to resolve. 
After years of trying  to establish what the problem was, he discovered it was an error 
with the sensor.  
Mr C said to resolve the complaint he wanted to return the car to Secure Trust, receive a 
refund of all funds paid,  plus interest  at the same rate of the agreement.  And an additional 
8% interest on top of this. 
Secure Trust provided Mr C with a final response it explained;
Ref: DRN19841534the car that he purchased was VAT Qualifying  car.  When  a 'VAT Qualifying'  car is 
sold, the VAT registered seller  is obliged to charge VAT on the sale price and return  
this to HRMC. The VAT charged  was included on the sales  invoice but did not affect 
the price the car was sold for or the amount that was financed  under the hire 
purchase agreement.
Mr C had selected a car from the ex Demonstrator  section  of Hs website. In the 
customer information section of the website  titled 'Ex-demo info' it states "The 
benefits of our ex demo and used car deals are the price and speed of delivery, 
because we are buying  the vehicles into stock in large numbers directly from the 
manufacturers, fleet and rental  companies and even sometimes dealerships.   And 
this would also have  been read out to Mr C during  a telephone call with H at the time 
of the agreement.
H wouldnt value an ex-hire/fleet  car vehicle differently when part-exchanging it and 
there was no difference recorded  in a valuation guide widely  used in the motor  
industry. 
as Mr C had taken  ownership of the car nearly three years previously it would be 
down to him to provide evidence the faults, he complained of were  present at the 
point of sale. It said Mr C hadnt provided  any evidence to show they were. 
It also explained that Mr Cs account was £1,543.15 in arrears and a notice of termination of 
his agreement had been sent in April 2018.  
The investigator who looked into Mr Cs complaint  concluded she couldnt consider whether  
the VAT had been applied correctly because thats not an activity  regulated  by the FCA. 
Because neither side could provide a copy of the original advert for the car, she said she 
didnt have enough evidence to conclude the cars mileage  had been  misrepresented.  But 
she concluded that even if Mr C was told the incorrect  mileage the difference  between what  
he was told and what the car had when he picked it up was 410 miles so she didnt  think  this 
would have made a difference  to Mr Cs decision to purchase the car. She also explained 
she hadnt seen  any evidence H had made an incorrect statement of fact regarding the 
previous ownership  of the car. So, she didnt think the car had been misrepresented. 
She also considered  whether the faults  Mr C reported meant the car wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality. She explained it appeared H had fixed  the original problems that Mr C had 
complained about.  She also pointed out that shed asked Mr C for evidence regarding the 
repairs hed completed  but he wasnt able to provide  any job sheets, invoices or reports to 
show exactly what work was done  or why. She concluded that as the cars mileage was in 
excess of 100,000  miles  it was most likely  these  issues occurred during normal use of the 
car. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr Cs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
can consider complaints  relating to it. And whilst I dont apply the law - directly  - I do take it 
into account. Relevant law here includes the Consumer  Credit Act of 1974  (CCA). Of 
particular relevance  to the circumstances of this complaint is section 56 CCA.  This makes 
the provider of finance equally  liable  for any misrepresentation made by the credit broker  in 
Ref: DRN19841535relation to the agreement.  A credit broker being the party  which introduces the consumer to 
the supplier of finance. Here S is both the dealer and the credit broker.
was the car misrepresented?  
For me to conclude the car had been misrepresented  to Mr C I would need to be sure that 
he was given a false statement  of fact about  the car and this induced him into the contract. 
Which includes not misleading Mr C about  the car by omitting  important information about  it.
I can see in the email exchange  between Mr C and H he was told the car had a mileage of 
36,000 miles. And the agreement shows the cars mileage as 36,852 miles.  But Mr C says 
the car had completed 37,500 miles at the time of purchase. I havent seen anything to say 
for sure what the mileage was when Mr C collected the car.  
The email  exchanges  between Mr C and H dont suggest he was particularly concerned  
about the mileage  of the car and his main  concern  seemed to be finding a car suitable for his 
work and within  his price  range. While I appreciate the mileage would have been a factor in 
Mr Cs decision. I dont  think  the difference here would have impacted Mr Cs decision to 
acquire the car. So, I dont think the car was misrepresented in that respect.
Ive also thought about whether H needed  to do more to highlight  the cars  history to Mr C.  
H has said that Mr C enquired about  the car through the ex Demonstrator section of its 
website. I note from the email chain  provided that the car Mr C asked about originally wasnt 
affordable for him and the car Mr C did acquire was suggested by H. So, I dont think he 
knew for sure this car might be an ex-fleet  vehicle. And I can see that H did describe  the car 
as one previous owner. 
But Hs website says Unlike  many of our competitors we offer ex demonstrator  and used 
vehicles on a business and a personal  lease basis, we have been doing  this since 2007 and 
has now become a large part of our business  with customers coming  back year after year.  
The benefits  of our ex demo and used car deals are the price  and speed of delivery, 
because we are buying  the vehicles into stock In large numbers directly from the 
manufacturers, fleet and rental  companies and even some times dealerships we are able to 
command big discounts on the cars which enable us to offer you deals that you will not find 
anywhere else and also delivery within days not months compared  to a brand new car. 
Given, Mr C had originally  enquired through Hs website, I think he knew that H sold 
ex-rental and lease  cars.  And the car he was discussing with H might fall into this category 
so if he was concerned  about this, I think he could have checked  with H, but I cant see he 
did.
 
I can see in an email  to H after acquiring  the car Mr C said I presume you purchased  this 
from a lease company  that lease to a well-known hire car provider. Mr C didnt raise  any 
concerns about  the fact the car may have been  ex-lease, nor did he suggest he wasnt 
aware this was the case or that he wouldnt have gone ahead  with the purchase had he 
known. Which, I would have expected had he been  concerned about this.  
So, the car was an ex-lease vehicle and H had told Mr C it was, that he would have gone 
ahead with the purchase in any event. So, I dont agree the car was mis-represented to 
Mr C. 
Ref: DRN19841536VAT
Whether it included VAT or not Mr C agreed to purchase the car for the price  of £9,199.00. 
The hire purchase agreement clearly sets out the interest rate and the total cost of the credit.  
Mr C accepted this and was prepared to pay this at the time.  
I can appreciate Mr C later thought he hadnt  got a lot of car for his money but that was the 
price he was prepared  to pay, and I havent seen anything to suggest H misrepresented the 
amount of VAT that would be applied to the car. As Mr C pointed  out, he did see and sign 
the invoice when he took possession of the car which clearly sets out how much of the 
purchase price was made up of VAT. 
As Secure  Trust paid the full purchase  price  to H for the car and Mr C agreed to pay the 
associated interest on this full amount, I think its reasonable for the interest to be applied.  
So, Im not asking Secure Trust to do anything else in relation to this aspect of the complaint. 
If Mr C thinks there are irregularities with how the VAT has been  applied or reclaimed, he 
can contact HMRC directly to make  his concerns known.  
faults
Secure Trust supplied  Mr C the car through the hire purchase agreement.  Our service  can 
consider complaints against the supplier about  the quality of goods  under this type of 
arrangement. 
The Sale of Goods Act (1979) is relevant to this complaint.  This says that when Mr C got the 
car, the supplier had a responsibility  to make sure it was of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory  
quality is what a reasonable person would expect   considering things like the cars  price, 
and description  and all other relevant circumstances. Which in this instance would include 
things like the cars age and mileage at the time of sale.  
In this case, Secure  Trust supplied  Mr C with a car that was two years old with a mileage of 
around 37,000  miles. The price of the car was lower than it would have been if it were 
bought new. With this in mind,  I think it is fair to say that a reasonable person would expect 
that components  of the car might have already suffered some wear  and tear. 
It seems  the original issues Mr C raised were  addressed in August 2015. I cant be certain 
because Mr C has said he arranged for this work to be carried  out himself but hasnt been 
able to provide  any invoices  or job sheets to confirm this. But I can see Mr C was in regular 
contact with H shortly after collecting the car. I can see an email from H to Mr C on 
24 August 2015  which  explained its service manager had spoken with Mr C that morning 
and the issue  had been resolved. Mr C replied to say he needed to get there and see whats  
what first suggesting, that an appointment was made for that day.  
If the issues hadnt been rectified, I would have  expected Mr C to raise this quite  quickly   as 
he had when he collected the car. The subsequent emails between Mr C and H focus mainly 
on the VAT issue. Although I can see Mr C did also continue  to mention that there  was a rust 
spot on the roof and an issue with the floor mats. 
So, I think its most likely the initial problems Mr C had raised concerning  the whining noise 
and the power  supply  were rectified  and Mr C was satisfied with this. H provided Mr C an 
Ref: DRN19841537explanation of why it changed  the floor mats.  I havent seen a photo  of the rust spot or any 
independent reports  to show what it is or that its a fault with the car.  
Although I think there were some issues with the car initially, I think its most likely  they were  
resolved to Mr Cs satisfaction  in 2015 or he decided to accept Hs response. 
Mr C has said he experienced problems with the cars DPF, mass  flywheel,  ABS sensor and 
water ingress in one of the doors.
Ive spoken with the mechanic who replaced  the DPF who couldnt provide a specific  date 
about when Mr C first visited him about  that issue. He was able to explain that it had 
recommended Mr C replace the DPF several times, but he chose to regenerate it. However, 
Mr C did eventually agree  to replace it and sourced the replacement DPF himself.
The mechanic couldnt say for sure why the DPF needed to be changed  or that there was a 
fault with the car. But he pointed out its not uncommon for DPFs to need to be changed. 
Mr C has provided evidence  that he enquired about purchasing a DPF and a cam belt in 
November in 2017. And confirmation that an order  has been placed (though  not showing  
what parts  were ordered). 
Based on his use of the car and the fact it had been in his possession for over two years at 
that point, its likely the mileage had increased  significantly. So, I dont think it unusual that 
Mr C would have been required  to complete some maintenance and some  parts  of the car 
may have  suffered from wear and tear. So, for me to determine that these issues meant  the 
car was not of satisfactory  quality  Id need to see some persuasive evidence  to confirm 
these parts were replaced due to a fault rather than normal wear  and tear. And I havent 
been provided anything which confirms why the parts  were  required or that this wouldnt be 
expected given the age and mileage of the car. 
Ive asked Mr C for evidence of the other  work completed and hes provided an invoice from 
June 2018 for the replacement of the clutch and flywheel. As this was almost three years 
after Mr C collected the car and it had completed  around 100,000  miles at this point, again 
Id need to see something to show why these parts were required. I havent been  provided 
anything which confirms  why the parts needed to be replaced or that this means the car was 
not of satisfactory  quality.  
In regard to the ABS issue and the water ingress I havent received any evidence that these 
issues were/are present, when they occurred or what caused them.
For me to hold Secure  Trust  responsible for any of the issues  Mr C experienced with the car 
I would need to see that they were caused because the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality. I 
would expect that a car that covers  over 60,000 miles in three years to experience  significant  
wear and tear and I havent seen anything  which suggests this wasnt the cause of the 
problems Mr C had with the car. So, Im not asking  Secure  Trust to do anything  to put this 
right. 
I appreciate that Mr C has had several other  issues  to worry about including  a serious  illness 
and this may have  hampered  his ability to collate and provide evidence regarding  the 
problems hes experienced with the car. But based  on everything Ive seen I think 
Secure Trust has treated him fairly.  
Ref: DRN19841538Secure Trust has now collected and sold the car. It has said that its considering 
Mr Cs health issues and will be happy to discuss  a potential  reduction in the total settlement 
amount owed. I would  just take this opportunity to remind Secure Trust of its obligation to 
treat customers experiencing financial difficulties with due consideration and forbearance.   
my provisional decision
Subject to any further submission I receive Im not minded to uphold  this complaint. 
So, Im not intending to make any award against Secure Trust Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Ref: DRN1984153