K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them three  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies for their secured loans.
Background
Mr and Mrs H took out three  loans  secured  against  their property, in 1996, 1997  and 1999 
respectively. For each of these loans they took out a PPI policy to cover their payments. 
Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI using  regular monthly premiums, which didnt attract  interest. 
The policies covered the loan repayments  in case Mr H was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Having done that, Ive decided these policies were not mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked closely  at copies of Mr and Mrs Hs 1999 secured loan application. I can see they 
were offered  the choice to take PPI or turn it down, with both options  being equally 
prominent. The option to buy PPI was chosen and Mr H signed  specifically for the policy, 
separately to signing  for the loan itself. The PPIs  cost was set out separately to the loans 
cost  it wasnt part and parcel of the loan. And I cant  see that the PPI was displayed  as 
anything other than an optional extra. Mr and Mrs H had also taken out a different secured 
loan with Halifax earlier in 1999, but didnt take out a PPI policy  for that. So it looks like they 
knew they didnt  have to have PPI to get a secured loan by that point.
For the 1996 and 1997 sales,  neither side still have  the original documents. But I think  thats 
understandable given  just how long ago those sales were. Indeed, under data protection 
rules Halifax  were required  to dispose of Mr and Mrs Hs data rather  than hold on to it for too 
long. Ive thought carefully  about whats most likely to have happened based  on the limited 
information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have added  the PPI without Mr and 
Mrs Hs permission, or to have misled them into thinking they had to have it. But I have no 
evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen  any wider problems with 
Halifaxs sales process from the time of those sales. And those sales  were too long ago for 
me to reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce the documents  from the time to 
defend itself now. So I dont think I have a fair basis on which  to conclude that Halifax  misled  
Mr and Mrs H or added PPI without them knowing. I think  its more  likely that it followed a 
relatively standard sales process, offered them a choice, and that they chose PPI, like they 
did in 1999.
Ref: DRN18597972Halifax recommended  the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs H, so it had to check  they were  right for 
them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time,  I think they were. For 
example, it looks like Mr H was eligible  for the policies  and wasnt affected by any of their 
key exclusions or limitations.
While Mr H had benefits through work, the policies  wouldve paid out on top of those and 
they covered him more comprehensively. For instance, they would help fill the gap when his 
sick pay reduced to just half pay  a serious drop in income  and they covered him for five 
times as long in any one claim. Mr and Mrs H also had savings, though  those wouldve only 
lasted so long if needed to cover  Mr Hs income. And the PPI meant  they could effectively 
protect their savings and use them for other things. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr and 
Mrs H fell behind on their secured loans  they couldve lost their home.  It looks  like the PPI 
couldve been useful  for them in protecting their home and providing some peace  of mind. 
The cost of the policy was set out clearly in the 1999  sale.  So I think  Mr and Mrs H wouldve 
understood how much that policy wouldve cost if they chose it.
Its possible that in the other instances the information Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs H about  PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  The question, then, is whether I think better information 
was likely to have changed their minds.  But as I explained above, Mr H wasnt  affected  by 
any of the main things  the policies didnt cover, and they couldve been useful for Mr and 
Mrs H in case something went  wrong. And the policies were  paid on a rolling monthly basis,  
so Mr and Mrs H could cancel them at any time without a penalty. Overall,  I dont think  that 
better information was likely to have put them off taking out these policies.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1859797