K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Hargreaves  Lansdown Asset Management Limited paid him
£300 less for his holding of OM shares  than he was told it was valued at on the day in 
question. It also gave him the wrong  information about transferring his L shares to another  
platform.
background 
The adjudicator who considered this case summarised the key events as follows:
Mr C asked for the current value of his OM holding and whether there  were  costs in cashing 
in. Based on a price  of £3,900 (approx.)  he instructed HL to sell but received £25 less than 
the quote. HL said this was because the prices  had fallen marginally by the sale point at the 
end of the day.  Mr  C also wanted to withdraw the money held in both his capital and income 
accounts. This totalled £3,940 but HLs accounts  department mistakenly paid him just 
£3,640, leaving  £300 in his account.
HL admitted these  mistakes and told Mr C how to withdraw this sum. But as he didnt do so 
this meant  his account remained open and he was charged a platform  fees of £10.70 in May 
2018.
After the complaint came to this service HL admitted that its call handler could have spelt  out 
that the price  quoted was not guaranteed as Mr C would receive the end of day trading price. 
It also admitted it failed to pay the full balance into his account, and did not correct  this 
promptly or explaining the reason  for the £10.70  deduction. It agreed to pay Mr C £200  in 
lieu of these errors and said it was now up to Mr C to instruct  it to transfer his balance  to his 
nominated account.
The adjudicator felt this was a fair and reasonable resolution of this issue.
In relation to the L shares issue she felt HL had responded  appropriately to Mr Cs request. 
She also didnt feel it should be responsible for Mr Cs decision not to go ahead  with his 
share consolidation till his complaint about  the OM shares had been resolved.
Mr C disagreed, and said:
At no time did HL contact him and admit that it had made  an error and would rectify it 
prior to this query.  If it was concerned it could have done that. This implies  that it 
does not have adequate  checks  and balances in these situations
Given he had instructed it to process a complete withdrawal earlier why didnt it just 
send the additional money as soon as the problem came to light?
On 15 January HL said, by letter,  that he had to pay Equiniti £10 to arrange the 
transfer, something Equiniti repeatedly said was incorrect
Instead, Equiniti  told him that he needed to fill in the form himself and send it to HL. 
This was the point  he raised in his 19 January  2018 letter following his call with HL
The consolidation eventually took five months  which resulted in his share dividend 
not accruing further  shares
The adjudicator  wrongly stated that he still held shares with it; these were transferred 
to Equiniti in May 2018
It appears, according to its letters of 15 January of 19 April 2018, that HL received 
form F from him but lost it
Ref: DRN13965942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the first issue I am satisfied that HL did eventually  recognise the various mistakes  Mr C 
refers to, and its £200 offer was in lieu of these. So I dont agree that there are outstanding 
issues yet to be addressed. I also do not believe £200 was an unreasonable offer and will 
therefore instruct HL to pay this.
I dont think this admittedly annoying  mistake (not paying the full balance) necessarily 
indicates underlying concerns about HLs entire processes. Mistakes do happen even when 
a business has a generally effective  system  in place. That said,  even one mistake like this 
can undermine a customers faith in a business  so I do understand Mr Cs concerns.
In relation to the share transfer I dont believe the evidence indicates that HL did anything 
substantially wrong.  I accept there was an initial confusion  as to whether Mr C wanted to 
consolidate his portfolio  with HL or transfer all his holdings with it to another  provider. But I 
dont agree that HL was responsible for this confusion. I think it was not unreasonable for it 
to conclude that Mr C wanted to move  all his holdings into his HL account.  Its subsequent 
actions, in my view, are therefore understandable.
I recognise some of its communication was unclear  or arguably incorrect,  such  as the £10 
reference, but I dont  believe these are sufficient to uphold this complaint. In my view it 
explained, once  Mr Cs intentions become  clear,  what Mr C needed to do so I dont accept 
that any problems  or delays in the transfer were its fault. I have considered Mr Cs other 
points but do not feel they alter my overall view about the merits of this issue.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  to the degree outlined by the adjudicator and instruct  Hargreaves 
Lansdown Asset Management Limited to pay Mr C £200 in lieu of its errors.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1396594