K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs O say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  MPPI.  
The type of MPPI policy Mr and Mrs O were sold was called Total  Mortgage Protection  Plan 
(TMPP). TMPP can be split into sections, namely Mortgage Repayments  Cover (which is a 
form of MPPI),  Life Cover  and Critical Illness Cover (CIC).
Mr and Mrs O took MPPI and Life Cover. They have  only complained  about  the MPPI, so 
Ive only looked  at the sale of the MPPI element of the package  in this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs O disagreed so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs O say that they didnt know they had taken MPPI  and that they wouldnt 
have accepted it if it had been  mentioned. But I think BoS made it clear that Mr and 
Mrs O didnt have to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this as it was so long ago. I say this because  BoS 
has provided information about  how it sold MPPI at the time, and the kind of paperwork 
that wouldve  been completed. This shows that MPPI was presented as an optional 
product  and that consent  wouldve been  gained for it to be taken out. And I havent  
seen anything to suggest that BoS did anything other than its usual process  when it sold 
Mr and Mrs O the MPPI.  
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs O so it had to check that the MPPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI 
cover and they seem to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible  the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs O about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs O have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN13990222Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to give Mr and Mrs O some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Os 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So BoS 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs O paid for the MPPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019. 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1399022