complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  about  the way U K Insurance  Limited has handled a claim made  
under their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy - and the way in which  the law firm it 
appointed to pursue legal action on their behalf  conducted itself.
All and any references  to UKI in this decision include its claims handlers. 
background
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim on their LEI policy to cover the costs of representing them in a 
contractual and property  damage dispute  they were having with a builder whod been 
engaged to carry out works to their home.  
UKI appointed one of its panel law firms to represent  Mr and Mrs C in that dispute.  They  
soon become unhappy with the way in which that firm was handling their claim so requested 
a local law firm be appointed to represent them instead. UKI declined this request but did 
offer to appoint another of its panel  law firms to represent Mr and Mrs C (the law firm),  
which they ultimately agreed to. 
 
The law firm initially advised that Mr and Mrs C didnt have reasonable prospects of 
succeeding in their claim - thats because the prospects of recovering anything from the 
builder were advised to be low. Relying on this advice, UKI withdrew  cover. 
Mr C proceeded to send  the builder a letter of claim and thereafter, settlement negotiations 
commenced. As a result  of a complaint brought to our service in the autumn of 2013, UKI 
agreed to provide additional funding to enable the law firm to assist Mr and Mrs C with 
negotiations. The parties couldnt  reach  a settlement but as, by that stage, Mr and Mrs C had 
discovered the builder  had other  assets, cover under the policy was reinstated.
Court proceedings were  issued and a default judgement was made by the court  in 2014. The 
court listed  a hearing to determine  the amount Mr and Mrs C should  be awarded. However, 
the law firm didnt send  a representative to represent them at that hearing and the claim was 
struck out. It was only reinstated after the law firm made an application to the court, and the 
court subsequently awarded an interim charging order against  the builder.
A disposal hearing was listed  for 27 November 2015 but, at short notice, this was brought  
forwards to 23 November  2015 - to be heard  after the builders  application to set aside the 
default judgement.  The builders application was successful so the disposal hearing  didnt go 
ahead. The court case was set for trial in the autumn of 2016.
In April 2016, the law firm once again  advised  that Mr and Mrs Cs claim didnt  enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success on the basis that they wouldnt be able to successfully 
recover any award made by the court in their favour.  Cover  was withdrawn on that basis.
Mr and Mrs C proceeded  without representation, and in October 2016 successfully applied  
for the builders defence to be struck out once more. Thereafter,  Mr and Mrs C agreed a 
repayment plan with the builder to pay the Judgment amount in monthly  instalments.
Mr and Mrs C are very unhappy with various  aspects of the way in which the law firm 
handled their claim. They also say UKI:
Ref: DRN16153812-provided little legal protection under the terms of his LEI policy because it didnt 
arrange suitably  qualified legal representation  for them;  it shouldve  known that there 
were problems  with the way they were being represented (and did nothing about  it), 
and it failed to monitor the law firms actions;
-failed to challenge the law firm regarding the costs it had incurred whilst representing 
them, which they say were disproportionately high and escalated very quickly;  and
-hasnt fully complied  with their data protection request.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. He didnt think UKI had done 
anything wrong. They  disagree and have  raised  several points in reply.  Their complaint has 
now been passed to me to look at everything afresh  and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Having  done  so, I dont 
uphold it. I know Mr and Mrs C will be very disappointed by this, and before  I explain why, I 
just want to reassure  them  that although I havent  addressed each point thats been made, 
Ive taken on board all of their comments.  
Under the policy UKI is entitled to appoint  a law firm to assess the merits of Mr and Mrs C 
succeeding in their claim and, if they had more chance of succeeding in that claim than not, 
representing them in that action (subject to the remaining policy terms). Its common for LEI 
policies to include a condition like this and generally we dont think that sort of clause is 
unfair. Thats because  it wouldnt  be reasonable to expect an insurer to fund a claim that isnt 
likely to succeed, or where  a privately paying client wouldnt be advised to start, or continue 
with, legal action.  Although not expressly set out in the terms of the LEI policy,  the term 
requiring Mr and Mrs Cs claim to have reasonable prospects  of success also applies to 
whether theyre  likely to recover any amount awarded by the court  if successful in the claim.
Mr and Mrs C are very unhappy about  the way their case was conducted by the law firm 
including relying  on the wrong information,  in 2013, when advising UKI that they didnt  have 
reasonable prospects of recovering any award.  That information  was for a different person   
not the builder. Theyre also unhappy  that after making the law firm aware in early 2016  that 
the builder might be disposing assets,  it did nothing in response.  But, as Mr and Mrs C are 
already aware,  this service cant consider complaints about the general legal advice or 
service given by a firm of solicitors; theyre not under UKIs control. They  are independent  
professionals with their own regulator and complaints procedures  and Mr and Mrs C have  
already exhausted  these.  
This service can only consider whether UKI did anything wrong in the way it handled the 
insurance claim. That includes whether the advice  given  to Mr C was obviously wrong or 
based on factual  mistakes to the extent that UKI shouldve reasonably questioned it. I dont 
think thats the case here. Im satisfied that on the occasions when UKI withdraw cover 
under the policy,  it reasonably relied  on the advice of the law firm when doing so.
suitably qualified representation
UKI are required to appoint a suitably qualified representative to act for Mr and Mrs C under 
the policy. Looking  at the areas in which the law firm practice, Im satisfied that it did have  
experience in contractual and property  disputes.
Ref: DRN16153813Im also satisfied that the solicitor who had conduct  of Mr and Mrs Cs claim at the law firm 
left in around July 2015 and it looks like a paralegal then handled the claim until the end of 
that year. Thereafter,  the claim was once again  dealt with by a qualified solicitor. 
Given the expertise  and experience of those solicitors, Im persuaded that they were 
appropriately qualified  to represent Mr and Mrs C in their legal action.  Although Ive taken 
into account what Mr and Mrs C say about the work of the paralegal, I think its likely that the 
paralegal wouldve received appropriate  supervision during the period they handled they 
claim. Its not unusual  for staff who arent qualified solicitors but experienced in legal matters 
to help do work on a file. And Mr and Mrs C were represented at the hearing in November 
2015 by an experienced  barrister. 
So, whilst Mr C may have agreed  with the law firm that his and Mrs Cs claim only be dealt 
with by a solicitor, and the paralegal may not have made it clear  that she wasnt  one, thats 
something they need to take up with it. Im not persuaded  that UKI can reasonably be held 
responsible for that.
appointing a solicitor of their choice 
Under the policy Mr and Mrs C were entitled  to choose their own solicitor  once  it became 
necessary to start court  proceedings, or if a panel law firm had a conflict of interest. I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs C wanted to instruct a more local firm of solicitors but at the 
time that request was made, there  wasnt a conflict of interest  and legal proceedings 
(although perhaps  contemplated) hadnt become necessary. 
Mr and Mrs C have mentioned that they asked UKI to appoint their own law firm throughout 
their case.  However,  I havent seen evidence that any such  request was made  by them  after 
the law firm took over conduct of the claim, or around the time it became  necessary to 
commence legal proceedings - or at any time subsequent to that. I know  UKI confirmed in a 
letter to them in January 2016 that a request was made back in 2013,  but that was prior to 
when it was necessary  commence proceedings and when the first panel firm was still acting 
for them. So, at that stage, I think it was reasonable for UKI to appoint another panel firm  
the law firm  to act for Mr and Mrs C rather than appoint the solicitor  theyd requested.  
I accept that whilst acting  for Mr and Mrs C, the law firm accepted that occasionally  the 
service provided fell below the necessary standard and in late 2015 / early 2016  it offered 
some monetary compensation to them for this. Because of the way in which  the law firm had 
conducted itself - and given the complaints Mr and Mrs C had raised  against  it - they say the 
law firm had a conflict of interest.  But given the nature of the complaints raised by Mr and 
Mrs C about the law firm, Im not satisfied that these issues alone are sufficient  for me to 
conclude that there  was a conflict of interest by that stage or that UKI shouldve  proactively 
offered to appoint a different firm to represent  Mr and Mrs C. And Ive seen no evidence  that 
Mr and Mrs C, at that stage, requested another solicitor be appointed to represent them.  
monitoring the law firm and the costs incurred
UKI says that under the standard terms of appointment with panel  firms  the law firm 
wouldve been required  to provide  six monthly  updates on issues such  as the status of the 
claim, whether the claim still enjoyed reasonable prospects  of success, costs to date and 
costs to the conclusion of the case.  I havent been given copies of any reports  so I dont 
know whether the law firm did provide regular updates to UKI  and if it didnt, whether UKI 
chased these  up. But Im satisfied thats a matter between the law firm and UKI. Had 
Ref: DRN16153814Mr and Mrs C raised  any concerns with UKI about  these issues  whilst funding was in place, 
I wouldve  expected  it to look into them. But Mr and Mrs C didnt do so during that period and 
its not unreasonable of UKI to leave the day to day management of the case to the law firm. 
After all, the law firm has its own regulatory  standards to comply  with, and as their client,  it 
was under an obligation to keep Mr and Mrs C updated on issues like costs, as appropriate. 
UKI says it paid the law firm an initial fixed fee to act for Mr and Mrs C. I havent  seen  
evidence of the amount it paid but, in my experience,, its not uncommon for LEI providers to 
engage panel firms  on this basis. So in the absence of any evidence to contrary, I accept  
what UKI says about this; particularly as UKI says the law firm hasnt issued them  with a bill 
for the work  carried  out on Mr and Mrs Cs case; just an invoice for the fixed  fee.
It looks like the law firm estimated  Mr and Mrs Cs total legal fees to trial to be in excess  of 
the indemnity  limit  and significantly more than the amount being claimed. But even  if the 
law firm had reported this to UKI, I dont  need to make a finding about  whether UKI shouldve 
questioned this because even if it didnt,  theres  no evidence that Mr and Mrs C lost out as a 
result. Im satisfied: 
-Mr and Mrs C havent had to pay any costs incurred by the law firm. And no matter 
the outcome of the claim  or the costs estimated by the law firm - UKI wouldnt  have  
been responsible for these. Thats because, as Ive found above, Im satisfied UKI 
was only required to pay the law firm a fixed fee. As such, the indemnity figure  
wouldnt have been used to pay any such costs;
-theres nothing to suggest  that had Mr and Mrs C been  successful in their claim,  but 
the law firm was unable  to recover all or any of their costs  from the builder, 
Mr and Mrs C wouldve  been personally  liable to make up the shortfall;  and 
-had the law firm advised  that the claim enjoyed reasonable  prospects throughout, but 
Mr and Mrs C had lost their claim,  UKI wouldve been responsible for their 
opponents costs  up to the indemnity amount. Thats because  the definition  of costs 
under the policy  include  costs ordered by the court  to be paid by Mr and Mrs C.
not fully investigating the concerns  raised  about  the law firm
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  that when it complained to UKI about the way in which  the law 
firm handled their claim, UKI didnt fully investigate those concerns and instead relied on the 
law firms findings. 
Ref: DRN16153815I dont think thats  unreasonable because UKI didnt have day to day conduct  of 
Mr and Mrs Cs legal  claim and arent the legal experts. So, its not unreasonable for it to 
have first allowed  the law firm to investigate Mr and Mrs Cs concerns under its own internal 
complaints procedure. I can see UKI reviewed Mr and Mrs Cs concerns  against the 
responses received  from the law firm and concluded  that the law firm had provided them  
with a reasonable outcome when  compared to the concerns raised. UKI also informed  
Mr and Mrs C how they could escalate  their complaint further, if they were  unhappy with the 
reply theyd received  from the law firm. I think thats reasonable. 
not providing Mr and Mrs C copies of documents theyve requested  
The policy says if Mr and Mrs C would like to see the terms of appointment which  UKI sent 
to the appointed representative, they can ask for a copy. Mr and Mrs C have done this, but 
UKI has declined to provide them with a copy as it distinguishes  between providing the 
standard terms it sends  to non-panel firms  and those terms that are in place with panel firms. 
UKI says the latter are commercially sensitive and are over 100 pages long. It also says 
these terms dont contain data that specifically relates to Mr and Mrs C; the terms govern  the 
basis on which the law firm is appointed as a panel firm to act for its policyholders  when a 
claim is made under the policy for legal representation, and sets out the expected service 
standards for the law firm to follow.
So, despite  what the policy terms say, in the circumstances of this particular complaint,
I dont think the reasons  UKI has put forward to explain  why it wont give Mr and Mrs C a 
copy of the terms of appointment it has in place  with the law firm - as a panel firm - is 
unreasonable. However, if Mr and Mrs C consider UKI has breached their data protection  
rights by not providing  this document  and other  documents theyve requested  from it  they 
can complain to the Information  Commissioners office. 
other issues
Mr and Mrs C also say the policy was mis-sold  to them. They  should  complain  to the 
business that sold the policy to them in the first instance, giving it an opportunity to reply  
before referring  that complaint to us to investigate if theyre unhappy with the response they 
get.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask them to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1615381