K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) T/A Halifax mis-sold  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to her alongside  a mortgage  in 2006. 
I know that when  Mrs M bought PPI, BOS was trading  as Halifax. To keep things simple,  Ill 
refer to BOS for the rest of this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Through her representatives, 
Mrs M disagreed with that view. She said that it wasnt made clear to her that the PPI was 
optional. She also didnt think the cover  was suitable for her because  she had good sick pay 
arrangements from her employer. 
As Mrs M didnt accept what our adjudicator  said, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint . Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.
I havent upheld  this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
PPI was sold to Mrs M during a meeting with BOS. I cant know what  was said during that 
meeting. So to help me decide  whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at what  Mrs M 
remembers about it. And Ive also considered the paperwork  and the electronic records from 
BOS that are available  from the time.  
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mrs M would have known PPI was optional  and 
she didnt have to buy it if she didnt want it. Mrs M is adamant  that PPI wasnt  discussed 
with her during  that meeting. I dont doubt  that what she told us is what she honestly  recalls. 
But I also have to take into account that it is difficult to remember  precisely what happened 
over 10 years ago, which is when this policy was sold. 
I can see from the electronic records that a number of questions were asked about  Mrs Ms 
personal circumstances relating  to PPI. And I think those details could have only been input 
if Mrs M had provided BOS with information.  I appreciate Mrs M doesnt now remember,  but 
I think there probably was a discussion about  the cover  when  she took the mortgage  out. I 
think shed have known  shed bought this at the time. 
BOS advised  Mrs M to buy PPI. So it had to make sure the cover  was suitable for her needs. 
To help me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions. And Ive 
also thought carefully  about what Mrs M told us about her personal circumstances at the 
time. 
I can see that if she d had to make  a claim on the policy, Mrs Ms mortgage repayments 
would have been covered  for up to 12 months  if shed been  made  redundant or if she was 
unwell. Mrs M told us that she didnt need  the cover  because she had a good sick pay 
Ref: DRN16149182package from her employer. She told us that shed have received more than six months full 
pay, but less than 12 months. Looking at the type of work Mrs M did, I think she probably did 
have a good sick pay package. But I also think that this cover  would have  paid out for longer 
than her full pay. And as Mrs M told us she didnt have any other  means of making 
repayments, I think this cover could have  been  helpful at what would have  no doubt been a 
very stressful time if she couldnt  work.  
Mrs M told us she was in good health when she took this policy  out. So I dont think  shed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything unusual  about her employment  circumstances  that would have stopped her 
from making a successful claim if she needed to. On balance, I think PPI probably was 
suitable for her. 
Even so, BOS still had to give Mrs M enough  information about the policy  so she could 
decide for herself whether  it was a good fit for her needs. It is obviously possible that BOS 
didnt give Mrs M all of the information  it should  have  done. But Ive set out above how PPI 
could have been helpful for Mrs M. And although  I appreciate she doesnt  now remember, I 
think she probably chose  to buy PPI. So it looks like she wanted that type of cover. With all 
of this in mind, I dont  think further  or better  information would have  put Mrs M off buying the 
PPI. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs M, but I havent  upheld her complaint. It follows  that I dont need  
to ask BOS to take any further action. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1614918