K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains about the service he received from the National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) whilst  trying to find out about  Premium Bonds (PB), and Childrens Bonus Bonds 
(CBB) held in his name.
background 
In April 2018, Mr P informed NS&I of a change of address.  He asked for a statement of 
account for all his accounts, and received a response showing a value of £60 for his PB 
account and £287.36 for his CBB account. He therefore thought  he had money  in both 
accounts. 
Mr P completed a withdrawal form to withdraw  the monies in the CBB account  but incorrectly 
entered the PB number onto the form. NS&I then incorrectly closed his PB account  and sent 
him the £60 balance. NS&I said they had previously received from Mr P a request form for 
repayment of the CBB account in November 2013,  which they had duly processed and paid 
the balance to him. They therefore accepted that they had given Mr P incorrect advice when 
issuing the CBB statement in 2018.  
NS&I further accepted that they should  not have closed the PB account. Initially  they said 
they would  be paying a goodwill payment of £30 in compensation to Mr Ps account to reflect 
that error,  but later increased the payment to £60 to take account  of the wrong  advice 
regarding the CBB account.
 
Mr P wanted  his PB account reinstated, which NS&I agreed to do, on the condition he 
returned the £60 paid to him. But Mr P didnt want to repay the £60. Mr P was also unhappy 
with the customer  service he received from NS&I when dealing with his complaint.
An adjudicator from this service looked into the complaint  and agreed  that Mr P had received 
a poor service. He thought that the payment of £60 for the errors regarding  the PB and CBB 
account were fair, but overall thought  the goodwill payment should be increased because 
there were other parts of the complaint which had not been addressed.  He said he had 
listened to the telephone call recordings and thought the customer  service  couldve been 
better, because Mr P hadnt  been  given clear information during the phone calls,  and hed 
been asked to write to NS&I as they couldnt confirm  payment amounts over the phone. 
Because of that it had taken multiple phone calls for NS&I to give an explanation to Mr P 
regarding the incorrect statement  sent to him. So he thought a fair outcome would be if NS&I 
paid a further £50 for the inconvenience caused  to him.
Mr P disagreed with our adjudicators view and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat our adjudicators  
background summary since  it is accurate  and full. My own background summary  has been 
necessarily brief to avoid repetition. So if I havent  mentioned something  it is not that Ive 
ignored it, rather that I think its not relevant.  This approach allows  me to concentrate  upon 
the determinative issues and avoiding becoming distracted by those which  are peripheral.
Ref: DRN19923602What I need to decide is whether NS&I  have acted fairly and reasonably  in how it dealt with 
Mr P. It is accepted that the CBB account  was repaid in November 2013  and it is unfortunate 
that Mr P was unable  to remember that. Nevertheless, NS&I  should not have  sent him a 
statement which I accept would have  led to him reasonably believing  he had a balance  of 
£287.36. That said, I think the offer of £30 to reflect  that error  was reasonable, as I think I 
need to take into account  that Mr P ought to share some responsibility  as he might  
reasonably have been expected to remember hed already had the money in 2013. 
In relation to the closure of the PB account, the evidence is very clear.  Mr P did not want  to 
close the account, but again I find that Mr P must bear some  responsibility, albeit it minor, 
since he entered the PB account number  on the CBB form. If he hadnt then the PB account 
wouldnt have been closed. NS&I should  nevertheless have spotted that and checked with 
him before closing  it. NS&I have offered to re-open the account on condition Mr P returns the 
£60, and that is fair and reasonable. To simply re-open the account with £60 already in it 
gives Mr P a further £60 in compensation, which I dont think  is fair. I do take into account  
that Mr P has potentially missed out on winning a prize by virtue  of the closure  of his 
account, but it is impossible to say whether or not he would have won. So taking into 
account the size of his PB holding, the time his account was closed, and the likelihood  of 
winning with a small holding of £60, I do think £30 was fair, reasonable and proportionate.
That leaves the other elements of Mr Ps complaint. I agree the customer service could have 
been better and Mr P was put to some degree  of inconvenience. It is always  difficult  to 
gauge the correct level of compensation for such service failures, and my role is to try to 
ensure a fair outcome.  Our adjudicator has taken the view that a further £50 would be fair 
and I think that falls within the broad parameters of reasonableness, so I would not disturb  it.
I know Mr P will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion 
as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do uphold the complaint. National Savings and Investments 
have already paid £60 to settle the complaint and so my decision is that National Savings 
and Investments should pay Mr P a further  £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1992360