K820x#14complaint
Mrs E has complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled her buildings  insurance 
claim. She doesnt  think its fair that they havent  paid out for the full cost of the repairs.
background
Mrs E had a leak at a property she owned, and this damaged the kitchen  floor. Mrs E wanted 
her own builder to repair this, and Aviva  agreed  to cover the £1,164.60 costs invoiced by the 
builder. But, when the builder started work, they found the damage was more  extensive than 
originally thought. The builders charged an additional £1,965.78  to repair  this additional 
damage. Because Mrs E couldnt contact Aviva  about this (it was a Bank Holiday weekend) 
she authorised the additional work  to be carried out. 
Mrs E thought that, because Aviva had authorised the initial repairs,  they would pay the cost 
of the additional work.  But Aviva didnt agree with the additional costs, and would only pay 
£1,080 towards  this. Mrs E has complained shes had to cover  the difference  between what  
the builder charged, and what Aviva agreed to pay.
Our investigator found Aviva had acted reasonably. Because Aviva didnt have the 
opportunity to see the additional damage before  it was repaired, they based their decision on 
the invoice Mrs E provided.  Aviva thought this was too much, and only agreed to pay what  it 
wouldve cost them to repair the additional  damage. The investigator  thought  this was fair 
and he didnt feel Aviva  should do anything more.
Mrs E didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsman  to review the case 
and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When settling a claim, an insurer can offer to repair the damage themselves or settle with a 
cash payment. Where the insurer chooses  to settle  with a cash payment, I would expect 
this payment to be enough to cover the consumers costs in repairing all of the damage. But, 
if the consumer  chooses  to have a cash payment, and use their own repairer, then I would 
only expect the insurer to pay what it wouldve cost them to repair the damage.
Insurers often have  arrangements with companies  that mean they can get things repaired or 
replaced for less than the market rate the consumer might pay. So theres  a cost to the 
insurer, which could be different to the cost to the consumer. Differences might be negligible  
in some cases, or significant in others.
Ive seen Avivas case notes for this claim. Mrs Es insurance broker reported  the claim to 
Aviva, and the case note for a call to Aviva on 4 July 2018 says:
Phone call from [Broker] to enquire  if we would be sending someone out, I have 
enquired if the client is looking for us to send  someone out he advised no and would 
we be happy with the client getting there [sic] own quote  advised  we would.
Ref: DRN15563702This shows me that Mrs E wanted  to use her own repairer and, through  her broker,  asked 
Aviva if she could do this. Aviva agreed. The claim was settled on a cash payment basis 
and, because Mrs E had asked for this, Id expect  Aviva to settle on the basis  of what  it 
would cost them to do the repairs.
When Mrs E submitted the first invoice, this fell within what  it wouldve cost Aviva to do the 
repairs, and they agreed to this. I wouldnt have expected Aviva to discuss potential 
additional works at this point, as there was no indication any would be needed. So I wouldnt 
expect them to have  explained to Mrs E that theyll only cover  costs up to the value of what  it 
would cost them to do the work.
The additional damage was discovered over a Bank Holiday weekend  and Mrs E says she 
couldnt contact  Aviva to discuss  the additional costs. Ive seen from Avivas  website that 
they have a 24 hour claim line, so I think Mrs E couldve attempted  to contact them to ask 
about the additional estimate.
Mrs E authorised the additional costs with her builder, in good  faith,  and in the expectation 
that Aviva  would pay these costs.  But if she had been able to speak to Aviva  at the time, 
they wouldnt have  authorised the work to go ahead and wouldve needed to assess  the 
costs. When Aviva received the additional invoice,  their surveyor assessed this and said it 
was more than it should  be. The surveyor considered the additional costs should be in the 
region of £800 and Aviva  agreed to pay £900  plus VAT (£1,080). 
While I accept that Mrs E will be disappointed  by this, Im satisfied Aviva acted reasonably,  
by assessing the value  of the claim and paying  out in line with what this wouldve cost them  
to do the repairs.  Because  of this I dont  think they should pay any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint about Aviva  Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1556370