K822xcomplaint
Mrs Y complains about issues shes experienced when she tried to pay a settlement figure 
on a car supplied with finance from Volkswagen Financial  Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS).
 
background 
In September  2018 Mrs Y requested to pay the settlement figure on a car supplied with 
finance from VWFS.
VWFS advised Mrs Y that it wasnt possible to pay the settlement amount with two separate 
cards. When  Mrs Y raised a complaint, VWFS said she could make a partial payment of 
£4500, leaving  one monthly  payment of £50 followed by a balloon  payment of £445.99 and 
an option to purchase  fee of £60.
Following this Mrs Y tried to pay with two separate cards again. VWFS agreed to let her do 
this but each time she tried to pay the payment was declined.
Mrs Y contacted VWFS and provided  the identity of the third party bank who issued her 
payment card. VWFS  advised  Mrs Y that it wasnt able to accept payments from this 
particular bank because  the third party bank  hadnt updated its bank identification  number 
with card payment  companies.
Mrs Y made further attempts to pay with the card, all of which were declined. She contacted 
VWFs again and was told by an advisor  that it appeared that she might  be trying to commit a 
fraud. Mrs Y raised a complaint about this which was upheld  and she accepted £100 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
In October  2018 Mrs Y called VWFS to try and amend the date the balloon  payment was 
due. WWFS advised Mrs Y that it wasnt able to amend the date. It said she could hand back 
the car if she wished.
Mrs Y decided to hand back  the car. Unfortunately her balloon  payment had already been 
requested for the following day and it was too late to stop the payment. The payment was 
taken from Mrs Ys account , which caused  her to become  overdrawn.
Mrs Y complained to VWFS. It advised her that she could  claim  a direct debit indemnity to 
retrieve the funds  which had been taken.  Mrs Y made a claim and didnt incur  any overdraft 
charges.
Following this, a third party retailer contacted VWFS to request a settlement figure. The 
outstanding amount was paid in November 2018 following a trade in of Mrs Ys car.
Mrs Y is unhappy about the way she was treated by VWFS.  She says she was caused  
distress and she wants compensation.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said VWFS was allowed to refuse split 
payments for commercial reasons but noted  it had given Mrs Y the option to make a split 
payment in any event.  The investigator  also said that VWFS hadnt been  able to accept a 
payment from the third party  bank for reasons  outside of its control. However, in relation to 
the advice provided  to Mrs Y regarding the balloon payment, the investigator  said that Mrs Y 
Ref: DRN12021362had been misadvised as to whether  the payment would  be taken from her account  or not 
and recommended that VWFS paid compensation of £75.
Mrs Y didnt agree. She said the taking of the balloon payment caused her to become 
overdrawn which couldve  impacted her credit score. She said she wanted compensation of 
£500.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how frustrating it mustve  been for Mrs Y to be advised that she wasnt able to 
pay with two separate cards. VWFS  has explained  that it has a policy  of not accepting split 
payments or payments  of £5000 or more  by telephone. This is a commercial decision by 
VWFS and not one which this service is able to ask it to change.
I can see that in any event, VWFS agreed  to make  an exception for Mrs Y and said it would 
accept a split payment.  So I cant say that VWFS  has treated Mrs Y unfairly here.
I appreciate that it was distressing for Mrs Y to have her payment declined  so many  times. 
Ive looked into why this happened. VWFS  has explained  that the issue was caused by the 
third party bank not updating  its details  with card payment companies. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the payments were declined by VWFS  itself.  So again,  Im unable  to 
say that VWFS has made  an error  or treated Mrs Y unfairly.
I understand Mrs Ys concerns about her account  becoming overdrawn when the balloon 
payment was taken.  Having listened  to the call between VWFS and Mrs Y, I think VWFS 
provided misleading information about whether the payment would be taken. I appreciate 
how distressing it mustve been for Mrs Y to discover that the payment had been taken and 
that shed become overdrawn. I understand why shes concerned  about  her credit score; 
however, I havent  seen  anything to suggest that this was adversely affected. Nor have I 
been provided with any information  to suggest  that Mrs Y incurred fees or charges as a 
result of becoming overdrawn. 
On balance, I think VWFS should  pay compensation to Mrs Y for the misleading advice. I 
think the sum of £75 is fair and reasonable.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited should pay compensation of £75 to Mrs Y.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN12021363
Ref: DRN1202136