K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains about the way in which Legal & General  Insurance Limited (L & G) handled 
his claim under his pet insurance policy. 
My references to L & G include its agent.  
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold this complaint but only in part. I include an extract 
from my provisional decision here:
In September 2017  Mr Y took out a lifetime pet insurance policy  with L & G for his cat. In 
January 2018  his cat was diagnosed with chronic  kidney  failure.  
In June 2018 Mr Y made a claim to L & G. It turned  down the claim as it said the kidney 
failure was pre-existing.  Mr Y didnt agree, and his vet sent L & G evidence to support the 
claim. Mr Y also informed L & G that sadly his cat had passed away.  
L & G turned  the claim down again.  Mr Y asked  for a review. In mid-October 2018 L & G 
issued a final response letter saying it had reached  the correct  decision to decline the claim. 
But because of the vets information  it was happy  not to link the chronic kidney disease with 
what had happened  before the policy started. L & G made paid most of the claim,  subject  to 
the policy excess and co-payment. 
Mr Y asked L & G to pay his claim for the remaining expenses hed incurred since  June until 
August, but it said hed need to send  another claim form first, signed by his vet, together with 
an up to date clinical history and breakdown of costs. Mr Y didnt think  this was fair, given it 
would put him to further cost and inconvenience.  L & G said it was its procedure as set out in 
the policy document and it needed  this information to assess  the claim. It issued a final 
response explaining its position.  
Mr Y came to us. He complained that L & G had refused to process the second part of his 
claim without  another claim  form; that it closed the original claim without asking if he would 
make a further claim even  though it was aware that his cat was suffering from a chronic 
condition; and that this followed delayed payment and attempts to refuse to deal with his 
original claim. 
Our investigator thought L & G had been  entitled to ask for another  claim form so didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr Y didnt agree, and he explained why he thought the request  for a 
wasnt valid both under the policys  terms and in consumer law. He thought one reason for 
asking for a continuation claim was to inconvenience consumers in stressful  circumstances 
so they would abandon  claims they were  entitled  to pursue. He said L & G had received 
directly from the vets practice its further statement of account  and clarification of the 
circumstances. We asked  L & G for further comments, which  weve shared with Mr Y. The 
complaints now come to me for review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN15483712I intend to uphold this complaint but only in part. Ill explain  my reasons. 
the June 2018 claim
Mr Y did include his complaint about the handling  of the June 2018 claim both to L & G and 
in the complaint form he sent to us, a copy of which was sent to L & G. He doesnt  have  to 
make a new complaint  about the handling of that claim.
In common with most pet insurance policies the L & G policy  didnt cover any pre-existing 
conditions, being  those which showed  signs or symptoms before  the policy started. In the vet 
section of the claim form, the vet said the cat had been treated for renal failure  between  
January and June  2018. In response  to a question about whether the cat had received 
treatment for any of the above, or any related conditions before the vet said Did have blood 
tests in 2016 because of PU/PD. 
PU is polyuria (excessive urine output) and PD is polydipsia (excessive drinking). Both can 
be signs of kidney failure. So I think it was reasonable for L & G to ask for further information 
from the vet, which it did promptly. The vet indicated that the blood  test results werent 
available. Based on the information it had, further  symptoms of PU/PD  in 2017 and the same 
symptoms in 2018 L & G declined the claim.  
But Mr Ys vet then emailed to dispute the outcome. The vet said that the 2016 blood tests  
came back  as normal, as seen in the cats clinical history, so the cat wasnt diagnosed with 
any renal issues in 2016.  
L & G was relying  on the pre-existing condition exclusion. So the onus was on L & G to 
show, on balance, it was more likely  than not that the cats condition was pre-existing. Given 
the vets supporting email and the clinical history showing the 2016  blood tests were  normal  
I dont think L & G had enough evidence to decline the claim in August  2018.
L & G said in its 30 August 2018  letter turning down the review that Mr Ys vet couldnt 
confirm the PU/PD was medically unrelated to the diagnosed  renal failure. But thats not the 
correct test. It was for L & G to show, on balance, that the earlier symptoms in 2016  and 
2017 were signs  of chronic kidney failure. Given the vets evidence  I dont think  it had shown 
the link. So I currently  think  that L & G should have paid the claim at the end of August 2018. 
Instead it was paid in mid-October  following an underwriting review. This means Im likely to 
uphold the complaint about the delay in dealing with the claim. 
L & G had been  aware that Mr Ys cat had passed  away before making its August 2018 
decision. I think it could  have taken more care to review the claim in the circumstances. 
I think both the delay and the timing of the decision caused Mr Y some  unnecessary  distress 
and inconvenience.  Im currently minded to award  moderate compensation for that. L & G 
did pay the claim in mid-October 2018 (following Mr Ys complaint) and taking  that into 
account I currently assess £150  compensation to be fair. 
Ref: DRN15483713the request for the claim form for the continuation  claim
Turning to the continuation claim I dont think L & G was required to anticipate that Mr Y 
might make a further claim  when considering the first one. I understand Mr Ys point about  a 
chronic condition  but this doesnt mean to say that a second claim will follow immediately  
after the first. 
Even if L & G had mentioned the continuation claim to Mr Y when assessing the first one, 
I think it could still have  required  another claim form to be completed. This is usual practice 
in pet insurance,  and I dont think asking for both a claim form and vet evidence  for a 
continuation of a claim  to be unreasonable. 
Mr Y has explained that he doesnt  agree the policy wording allows  for another  claim form. 
The policy index includes a section on how to claim.  When turning to that section  L & G 
explains the claim form can be downloaded  or submitted  online,  by email, can be requested 
by telephone or in writing. I dont think it was a complicated process.  
The policy goes on to say the policy holder must co-operate fully to give L & G the 
information it may need. As a condition of settling the claim:
18.1 If requested by [L & G], the vet attending to your pet or the usual or previous vet must, 
at your expense,  provide  [L &G] with all information  about your pet, including its full medical 
history or its treatment as [L & G] may require. 
18.2 You and your vet will have to complete all applicable sections of our claim forms and 
submit the same to [L & G] before a claim can be assessed by [L & G]. An incomplete  claim 
form will be returned and this will delay settlement of your claims. We will not pay any fee 
charged by your vet for completing the claim form. Your fully completed claim form should 
be returned to [L &G ] without undue delay and in any event within 90 days  of the incident 
occurring or your renewal  if sooner.
Mr Y says that to the extent this wording allows for a further claim form to be completed and 
submitted then the above wording is an unfair contract term under the Unfair Contract Terms  
Act 1977.  
In reaching a decision that is fair and reasonable Im required to take into account,  amongst 
other things,  relevant law. Ive done  so here. I think the relevant law is the Consumer Rights  
Act 2015,  which brought together various  pieces of legislation  including the Unfair  Contract  
Terms Act 1977. 
Having taken into account the law I find I dont agree I can fairly  say that L & G requiring a 
claim form for a continuation of a claim is an unfair contract term. I think  the requirement  for 
a claim form is reasonably prominent and transparent in the policy. 
The claim form itself is not complicated, and can be requested  and submitted in a number of 
ways. Mr Y has mentioned the vet fees for completing the form, but the policy  clearly  says 
thats not an expense thats covered (in common with most insurance  policies which  require 
proof of claim). I dont think the request  for another claim form causes a significant 
imbalance between  the consumers rights  and L & Gs rights. 
L & G has explained it needs information  in the claim  form to show  the condition being  
treated, the dates  of treatment, whether its linked to a previous condition as well as the up to 
Ref: DRN15483714date clinical history and the breakdown of the further costs. I think  thats  a reasonable 
explanation by L & G. 
I dont agree that the requirement  for another claim  form is designed to dissuade  a consumer 
from pursuing a claim. I appreciate Mr Y had problems with his first claim, but even if that 
had been smooth  another claim form is required for additional costs.  Mr Y says his vet did 
send the up to date clinical history and breakdown  of costs but L & G says it didnt receive 
that information. 
I can see that this matter has reached an impasse  and I think  thats partly due to the 
handling of the original  claim. Subject to any comments  I receive in response  to this 
provisional decision, then to move  things forward I suggest that if Mr Y (and his vet) now 
agrees to complete and submit  a claim form, remaining clinical history and a breakdown of 
costs within  28 days of accepting my final decision then L & G should  assess that claim, 
even though its outside its usual  timescales  for accepting a claim.  It should give Mr Y its 
decision on the claim within one month  of receiving the information  it needs to assess that 
claim. If Mr Y isnt satisfied with the outcome then he can raise  that as a separate  complaint 
with L & G and with this service, but I hope that wont be necessary.
responses to my provisional  decision
L & G accepted  my provisional decision  and didnt have any further comments. 
Mr Y said hed also accept my provisional  decision although  he didnt agree with the points 
Id made.  He was disappointed with my interpretation of consumer law and remains  of the 
view that L & G should not have closed  a claim without confirming whether he intended to 
submit any further invoices. He gave  us his current contact details for the claim form, which  
weve passed on to L & G together with his preference for email communication.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have decided  to accept my provisional decision. I confirm  the findings  I reached 
for the reasons given in that decision and here. I uphold the complaint in part and I require 
L & G to take the steps set out below. To avoid  any delay  Ive required L & G to send Mr Y 
the claim form using the updated contact details weve  sent him as soon as possible and, if 
its not already  done so, within 14 days of the date of this final decision.  
Ive read Mr Ys comments and I appreciate his strength of feeling in this matter. I remain of 
the view that L & G wasnt required to anticipate an additional claim for costs of any 
additional treatment  when settling the original claim.  Having considered all the evidence 
I dont agree that the request for an additional claim form is onerous or designed to wear  
down the claimant.  
Ref: DRN15483715my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision and in this final decision I uphold 
this complaint but only in part. I require Legal & General Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr Y £150 compensation for distress  and inconvenience within 28 days  of the 
date we send  it Mr Ys acceptance  of my final decision. If it pays  later than this it 
must also pay interest* on the compensation from the date of my final decision until 
the date of payment at 8% per year simple;  and 
To consider any claim for Mr Ys remaining  costs  and pay it (or explain why its not 
paying it in full or part) within 28 days of receiving Mr Ys completed claim form and 
the requested  supporting information, provided  that Mr Y submits his claim within  
28 days of the date he accepts my final decision   and on the condition  that L & G 
sends him the required claim form as soon as possible and, if its not already done 
so, within  14 days of the date of this final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If L & G considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr Y how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr Y a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN1548371