K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that J D Williams & Company  Limited, trading as Fashion World,  increased 
the credit  limit on his mail order  account  twice in the same month, without checking he could 
afford the increased  minimum  payments.
background
Mr B has a mail order account with Fashion World. In October 2018 his credit limit was £300.  
He says that on 1 October this was increased to £700, and on 29 October  it was increased 
again to £1,200. This resulted in his minimum monthly payments increasing from £15 to 
£100. He says he could not afford  this, and he went into arrears, incurring charges and 
interest for late or missed payments. He complained, but Fashion World said it had carried  
out affordability checks, using information on his credit file. It also said it had told him in 
advance about  the increases, and he had not declined them.  Being  dissatisfied with this 
answer, Mr B brought this complaint to our Service.
 Fashion World disputed  Mr Bs chronology of events. It said that it had actually increased  
his credit limit incrementally, starting  in June. It had checked his credit file each time, and his 
overall indebtedness seemed to be low. It said Mr B had been managing  his account well. It 
pointed out that his minimum payments  had only increased because he had chosen to make  
more purchases,  making use of the new credit limit.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He accepted that Fashion World  had done  
proper checks,  and said that Mr B could have opted  out of the increases  if he hadnt wanted  
them.
Mr B did not accept that opinion. He said that he had only ever made minimum payments 
when his credit limit was £300, so Fashion World should not have assumed he could afford  
higher and higher limits.  He said his credit report before the increases was already poor. He 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following  table sets out all of Mr Bs credit  limit increases in 2018. At the beginning of 
that year, his limit was £300.
Date New limit Amount of increase
9 June £350 £50
4 August £400 £50
29 September £700 £300
27 October £1,200 £500
That isnt quite as abrupt an increase as Mr B thought it was, but it is still a tripling of the limit 
in about a month.
The first two increases  were of only £50 at a time.  That does not seem unreasonable to me. 
So I do not uphold  this complaint insofar  as those increases are concerned.
Ref: DRN12875052I accept that Fashion World told Mr B in advance about the increases, that he did not decline 
them, and that he took advantage of them by making further  purchases. Consumers do have 
responsibility for their own finances,  and I take that into account.  But that cant automatically  
get Fashion World off the hook, because lenders still have a duty to lend responsibly. So 
I will still consider what  Fashion World knew about  Mr B when it decided  to increase his limit 
in September  and October.
Fashion World says it checked his credit  file each time, and also took into account how he 
had been managing his account with it. I will consider each of these matters in turn.
Fashion World has recorded that Mr Bs total indebtedness was low, but that at the times of 
the last two limit increases it had been  11 months  and 13 months, respectively, since his 
most recent default.  That is not very long, and demonstrates that he had most likely been  in 
financial difficulty only a year earlier. But on the other hand, his circumstances may have  
improved since, and one default does not automatically mean that it is never  appropriate to 
lend money to someone a year later. On balance,  I dont think  that this factor,  taken on its 
own, is so serious that a lender could  never  exercise its commercial discretion  in favour of 
raising a credit limit.
I have been provided with a list of all of Mr Bs purchases in 2018,  which  includes his running 
balance. He remained within his £400 credit limit for the whole time that he had it. Once the 
limit was increased again to £700,  he remained within  that limit. So as far as Fashion  World  
could see, there was no evidence that Mr B was in financial difficulty. And if he was, then the 
onus was on him to tell Fashion World. Since he didnt, I think  Fashion Worlds conclusion 
that he was managing his account properly was justified.
On the other hand, an increase from £400 to £1,200  an increase of £800, double  the 
earlier limit  in only four weeks  does seem to be rather rapid. And soon afterwards,  Mr B 
got into difficulty with his repayments. So I have  considered the effect  the last two increases 
had on his monthly payments.
Every month  up to September, Mr B made  a payment of £15 by direct debit. He says (and 
I accept) that was the minimum payment. In October, when the credit  limit was £700, he paid 
£20. (That payment  and the subsequent payments were  made using a bank card.)  Then  in 
November, when the limit was £1,200,  he paid £30. That was when  his balance was just 
over £1,000. He missed  Decembers payment, and paid £50 in January. That seems  to have 
been his last payment, and he then went into arrears.
I dont think that Fashion  World could reasonably have predicted that such  a modest  
increase in its customers outgoings could  have caused him financial difficulty. So I do not 
believe that its decision to increase  the credit limit was irresponsible, given the information it 
had at the time. I dont think it needed  to do further checks than it did. I regret  that this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr B.
Once Mr B told Fashion  World about  his difficulties, Fashion World put his account on hold, 
and encouraged him to speak to its specialist  team  about a way forward. That is what  
I would expect it to do.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN12875053Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1287505