K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC wrongly  recorded adverse information about  
him with a fraud  prevention  agency  (FPA). He says he was the victim  of fraud. Mr R says 
this has stopped him being able to properly access other financial services.  He wants the 
adverse information  removed  and a proper explanation of what happened.
background
Dates are quite important to this complaint. They refer to 2016 unless noted otherwise.
Mr R says hes been the victim of fraud  on his accounts with Barclays.  Two of those 
accounts are personal ones in his name. But there  are also accounts  in the name  of a limited 
company, of which Mr R was the sole director. Ill refer to the limited  company as X.
X has now been dissolved. That means it no longer exists as a legal entity   so neither it nor 
Mr R is able to complain  about anything Barclays did (or didnt do) in respect of Xs accounts  
with the bank. So what I can say about those accounts is very limited.
A large  credit was made to Xs account on 14 November. Soon after that, Barclays  was told 
the credit  to Xs account was fraudulent  and it blocked Mr Rs accounts. But by then, the 
money had been  taken  out of the accounts through it being:
moved between Mr Rs various accounts; or
withdrawn, including at ATMs;  or
spent using  Mr Rs debit cards;  or
transferred to other parties by bank transfer.
I dont need to set out all the transfers and transactions  here  as our investigator  has done 
so in his view on this complaint.  But I will refer to those relating to Mr Rs personal accounts  
later on.
The bank carried out a review and in January  2017 gave Mr R notice  it was closing all his 
accounts with immediate effect.  It also recorded its concerns with a FPA, saying Mr R had 
misused his (banking)  facility because a fraudulent item had been paid into an account.
Mr R says he didnt know anything about  the fraudulent credit.  And it wasnt until October 
2017, when he had another account  hed later opened with another bank closed, that he 
realised something was wrong. At this point, Mr R contacted the FPA  and it told him about 
the adverse information Barclays had recorded against his name.
Mr R then complained  to Barclays. But the bank  told him it was satisfied the information it 
had recorded  with the FPA was correct.  So it wouldnt be doing  anything further.
As Mr R wasnt happy with what the bank had said, he contacted us. One of our 
investigators looked into things for Mr R. But, in summary, he was satisfied Barclays  was 
right to record the adverse information  about  Mr R with the FPA.
The investigator reached this conclusion by being  satisfied Mr R had been aware of the 
activity on his accounts. So it was most likely  hed authorised the transactions.
Ref: DRN18963452And in concluding that Mr R had most  likely authorised the transactions,  the investigator had 
considered the requirements of the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs)  as these  set out 
whats needed for a bank  to hold a customer liable for spending in circumstances like this.
The investigator had asked Mr R to identify the transactions he says he didnt make.  This 
took a little time as Mr R didnt initially look at the credits made to his accounts   just the 
withdrawals and spending. And things were a bit more  complicated by Mr R now highlighting 
transactions he says he hadnt made,  which had happened  on his accounts  earlier  in 2016  
but he hadnt noticed before.
Barclays said it was strange that Mr R would  have seen  statements for his accounts, 
showing all these transactions  some  of them substantial  amounts  from the end of 2016. 
But he didnt  raise  any sort of query about  them until early  in 2018.
Barclays records showed a large  amount of the activity on the accounts had been  carried 
out by using Mr Rs online and mobile  banking,  the latter using the mobile  phone  number 
registered to Mr R. And his debit  cards had also been used  and the correct PINs  had been 
entered when  withdrawals  were made  at ATMs and for purchases  at retailers.
There were some genuine transactions that Mr R says he did make  mixed  in with those  he 
says he didnt. So this would mean  somebody  had been able to get Mr Rs security  
information and debit card(s), use them   and then return his card(s)  without  Mr R realising 
on more than one occasion. The investigator  didnt think this was very likely.
Mr R was clear  he hadnt shared his online banking details with anybody  else  or told 
anybody else his PINs. And our investigator  said some  of the withdrawals required the 
person making  them to be aware of information  about Mr R. So the investigator said that, if 
all of the above was the case,  it wouldnt have been  possible  for anybody else to have made 
all the transfers, withdrawals and other spending.
In summary,  our investigator concluded either Mr R carried  out the transactions  himself or 
hed given enough information to somebody  else for them to be able to do so. The amount of 
information needed to carry out the activity was so much that it was unlikely it could be done 
without Mr Rs involvement.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view. He said it wasnt  possible for him to have  
made the cash withdrawals. They were  made  in a different part of the country from where  he 
lives. He still feels let down by Barclays and wants to know who was responsible  for the 
fraud. Mr R doesnt think Barclays has enough evidence to record adverse information  about 
him with the FPA.
Hes also explained the difficulties hes been having with his finances. Mr Rs had to use a 
family members account for some banking  activity. This is no longer possible and all of 
whats gone on is impacting on how he cares for a relative.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Rs complaint  in October 2019.
Ref: DRN18963453This was because our investigator included information about the accounts of a limited  
company of which Mr R was the sole director. But that company has been dissolved. So, 
under our rules, the company isnt eligible to complain about anything.
The adverse  information recorded about  Mr R with the FPA relates to him personally (it cant 
be about the limited  company). But it was important I set out why the activity on Mr Rs 
personal accounts only is enough for that information to be appropriate.
my provisional findings and provisional decision
I could see Mr R was quite upset  by whats happened here. Thats clear from what hes said 
to both us and Barclays. And Im not surprised about  that. Hes explained the difficulties hes 
having getting banking facilities  and the problems thats caused him. Im particularly sorry 
to hear about  the impact theyve had on his caring responsibilities.
But I had to tell Mr R that I agreed  with the overall  conclusion of the investigator. I thought 
the activity on Mr Rs personal accounts  is sufficient for Barclays to record  adverse 
information about him with the FPA.
For Barclays to record  adverse information with the FPA about Mr R, it has to:
be sure there are reasonable  grounds  to believe that a fraud has been committed or 
attempted;
have enough evidence so that it could report whats  happened to the police (if 
necessary);
be sure Mr Rs accounts were misused  through the paying in of a fraudulent credit;  and
have closed  his accounts because  of whats happened.
Our investigator didnt  comment on these  specifically. So I looked at each of them.  But some 
of the evidence available does cross over more  than one of the above criteria.
are there reasonable grounds to believe a fraud has been committed or attempted?
I thought the answer here is yes. Money in Mr Rs personal accounts was transferred from 
Xs account(s). Barclays says it was told the original credit was fraudulent. So Im satisfied it 
had reasonable grounds to believe a fraud had been  committed or attempted.
is there enough evidence so Barclays could  report whats  happened to the police?
Its important to be clear here that Barclays isnt responsible for reporting the matter  to the 
police. The bank  simply has to be sure it has enough evidence  to do this if necessary.
Here, some of the evidence was quite compelling.  Mr Rs personal  accounts were used to
move money between  his various accounts;
withdraw cash  at ATMs and spending  with retailers using his debit card;  and
pay third parties by bank transfer.
Ref: DRN18963454It is only activity  after the fraudulent  credit that Barclays can rely on in terms of recording 
adverse information  with the FPA. So, to be clear, I was only looking at activity on Mr Rs 
personal accounts on or after 14 November 2016.  Ill return  to the other transactions  Mr R 
says he didnt make before this date later on in my decision.
I didnt repeat in any great detail what our investigator said in this respect.  But it seemed 
clear to me that Mr R either authorised the activity  himself or passed enough information to 
somebody else in order  for them to do so.
I was satisfied Barclays records  show the transfers   both between accounts and to third 
parties were  made using  Mr Rs online or mobile banking  (using  the phone  number 
registered with the bank  by Mr R). Mr Rs said nobody  else knows the security  information 
needed to do this. He said hes not shared  it with anybody. So the only other possibility 
would seem to be that Mr R made the transfers  himself.
The cash  withdrawals at ATMs would need  Mr Rs debit card and the PIN, which  he says 
was known only to him. So its hard to see that anybody  other  than Mr R made those  
withdrawals. I accepted they were made  many  miles from where  Mr R lives. But that, of 
itself, doesnt  mean he didnt make them  or gave his debit card and PIN to somebody else 
to use.
Our investigator said other cash withdrawals (not using an ATM) were made by somebody 
that required personal information  about  Mr R. So I asked  Barclays  what this information 
was. The bank confirmed  these withdrawals only required Mr Rs card and PIN, and not any 
additional or personal information.
Barclays no longer  has details of how the ATM and other withdrawals  were  made  due to the 
passage of time  in other words,  that Mr Rs genuine card was used  and the PIN entered  
correctly. Thats very disappointing  given that the bank has considered this to be a key factor  
in its decision to record adverse information  about Mr R with a FPA.
So, what  our investigator  said in his view about  the ATM and other  cash  withdrawals wasnt 
right.
But I thought,  on balance, there  was probably  just about enough information about the wider 
circumstances of whats happened here for me to conclude Barclays has satisfied the 
requirements of the criteria for recording adverse  information with the FPA.
And in reaching  this conclusion I was mindful of the requirements of the PSRs, and the 
guidance of the Financial  Conduct Authority, around authorisation of, in this case, transfers, 
payments and withdrawals.
were Mr Rs accounts misused  through the paying in of a fraudulent  credit?
The answer here seemed clear in that they were. But the use of Mr Rs personal  accounts is 
only indirect. The fraudulent credit  was paid into Xs account in the first instance.
This is a finely balanced point.  I couldnt entirely  separate the use of Xs accounts from those 
of Mr Rs personal ones  as all of the accounts  were visible  from his online banking. But, 
taking the other circumstances Ive touched on above, I think  Barclays actions just passed  
the test for this criteria.
Ref: DRN18963455have Mr Rs accounts been closed because of whats happened?
Yes  Barclays has been clear that it is the paying  in of the fraudulent  credit  and the 
subsequent actions on all of the accounts Mr R is connected with that resulted in it closing 
them.
earlier transactions Mr R says he didnt make
Ill now return to the other  transactions  Mr R says he didnt make  before the fraudulent 
credit was made to Xs account. These  dont directly  affect Barclays  decision to record 
adverse information  with the FPA.
Most of these disputed  transactions  took place on Xs account. As X no longer exists, I cant 
comment on them directly  as X isnt eligible  to complain to our service.
But I was aware they are of concern to Mr R. He wants to know whats  been  going on with 
Xs account. Mr Rs right to be concerned about these things.
The majority of those transactions that Mr R says he didnt make on his personal account 
are transfers  to Xs account. I note that had these  disputed  transfers  not taken place from his 
personal accounts, Mr R would not have been able to make some  of the payments from Xs 
account that he says were  genuine  as the balance of Xs account  would have  been  
overdrawn as a result. So it seemed to me that Mr R either:
authorised those transfers;  or
allowed somebody else to make them on his behalf.
Mr R would have been able to see this from the times he accessed  his online banking. 
Barclays records show clearly that he did use online banking  throughout the period when 
these transactions  took place.
summary
I said that in some respects  this complaint is finely balanced  because Barclays  isnt able to 
provide the level of evidence that Id expect. But when  I combined all the information that is 
available, I was satisfied  the bank didnt  do anything wrong in recording adverse information  
about Mr R with the FPA.
I accepted it was possible Mr R has been  the victim here  in the sense that somebody 
(probably close to him) may have abused the trust Mr R placed in them.  But he is 
responsible for activity  on his (personal) accounts. And I was satisfied the activity in question 
here was enough  for Barclays to raise concerns.
It clearly didnt help Mr Rs case  when  he only started to look at the activity on his accounts 
some considerable time after it happened  and realised that all was not in order. Indeed, it 
wasnt clear to me that Mr R really  understood the scale  of what  had happened on his 
accounts until he brought his complaint to us and we asked him to confirm the transactions  
he was disputing.
Id expect Mr R to be keeping a close eye on all of his accounts  and he seemed to have 
been doing that by accessing his online and mobile banking when the disputed transactions  
took place.
Ref: DRN18963456So, my provisional decision was that I didnt propose to uphold  Mr Rs complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision  and my further findings
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Not surprisingly Mr R didnt agree with my provisional decision. He wanted Barclays  to carry 
out a full investigation and provide  clear evidence it was him that was carrying  out the 
various transfers and transactions  and to find out who had actually been the perpetrator  
here. Mr R felt Barclays hadnt protected his account, money  or his personal information.
He noted my comments about the evidence from Barclays not being as extensive  as I might 
expect and the possibility he was the victim here. He re-stated the impact this matter  
continues to have  on his life.
While I note what Mr R says, Im afraid I have to tell him he hasnt said anything new or 
which changes my mind. But I should clarify some points in response to what he has said.
Its not Barclays role (or for our service) to find out who may have  been  responsible  for any 
actions that Mr R says he didnt carry out. That would be a matter for the police. What  
Barclays has to do is satisfy the criteria Ive set out above for reporting adverse information  
about Mr R with the FPA.
And following on from that, I should clarify  that while I made  the comment that I was 
disappointed with various aspects of the information  Barclays was able to provide I am  on 
balance and when  taking all the available evidence into account   satisfied it has done  so. 
I might  have  wanted more  evidence. But I have  to work with what is available  to me  and 
reach a conclusion based on that.
None of this is to suggest I am not sympathetic to the position  in which  Mr R finds himself. 
The problems here have clearly had a significant impact on his life. Im sorry to hear that 
continues to be the case.
I know Mr R will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings  to an end what our service, 
in trying to resolve  his dispute with Barclays informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant  
help Mr R any further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020. 
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1896345