K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  didnt pay a fair total loss 
settlement when he claimed under  his car insurance policy.  
background
Mr E made a claim to his insurer, Admiral. Admiral settled Mr Es claim by paying the market 
value for his car. Mr E thought his car was worth more than Admiral paid. 
Our investigator explained that we dont  decide  a valuation, but considered whether Admiral 
had reached its valuation reasonably and in line with the policy.  He thought it had.
Mr E didnt agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at whether Admiral reached  its valuation reasonably and in line with the policy. 
We dont decide  an exact valuation. Admirals  policy says the most it will pay is the market 
value of Mr Es car in the event of a total loss claim.  It defines  market value as:
the cost of replacing your vehicle with another of the same make, model,  age, 
mileage and condition  as your vehicle. Please note that the value you quote is not 
necessarily the amount  of pay-out you will receive in the event of a claim. We will 
determine the exact market value of your vehicle in the event of a claim.'
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We find the main  motor trade 
guides are a reliable  way to decide a fair valuation as they provide valuations based  on the 
same make, model, age, condition and mileage  of a car based on likely selling prices.  They  
provide a retail  transacted  valuation which is the price Mr E  or anyone  might  expect to 
reasonably pay at a retail  garage.  
We find the motor trade guides more reliable than advertised prices as they tend to be a 
starting point to negotiate a price downwards.  Adverts can vary widely for similar cars. 
Ultimately theres no limit as to what price a seller  might choose to advertise a car for. 
Admiral checked the main  motor trade  guides and paid Mr E the highest  of the valuations. 
Generally if an insurer  has paid the average  of the main motor trade guides, we think this is 
reasonable. 
As Admiral paid more  than the average  of the trade  guide valuations for Mr Es car, I think 
Admiral settled his claim in a fair way. 
Mr E said his car was kept in good  condition, regularly serviced and with a warranty.  I 
appreciate that having to deal with the claim  the circumstances under which it happened  
and the trouble of having to purchase a replacement  car  has caused Mr E some anxiety. 
Ref: DRN14828552But I think Admiral has fairly applied the term of its policy when deciding a valuation for 
Mr Es car. The valuations Admiral used  were on the basis  that Mr Es car was in good 
condition. 
I should clarify that when we checked  the trade guides, we looked at valuations  based on the 
month Mr Es car was written off. And Im satisfied that Admiral correctly  did the same.  
I realise Mr E will be disappointed with my decision.  But based on what Ive seen, I think the 
total loss settlement Admiral paid was fair and in line with the policy.  This means  I dont think 
it needs to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1482855