K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bristol Street  Fourth Investments Limited (trading as Bristol  Street  
Motors Ilkeston) misrepresented a finance  agreement to him.
background
Mr Bs partner,  Miss E, says they were  initially interested in buying  a car from Bristol  Street  
Motors as it was offering  a 0% finance deal. She says they explained their circumstances 
and wanted to trade in their car, pay monthly  instalments  for four to five years,  with the new 
car becoming theirs at the end of the repayment period. Miss E says she initially  questioned 
the agreement  she was offered as the trade-in value and the monthly  instalments totalled  
less than the price  of the car. Miss E says she was told this was because  Bristol Street 
Motors could claim the VAT back due to the 0% finance arrangement.
When Miss E went to collect the car, she says they were given a copy  of the invoice and 
Mr B signed  the finance agreement electronically.  She says she saw the monthly instalments 
and a £0 balance  at the end of the term, but was never given a copy  of the agreement at the 
time. When she later called to request it, she was told the employee shed been dealing  with 
had left and, in fact, Mr B had signed up to a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) with a 
£7,495 final payment, rather  than the Hire Purchase  agreement theyd expected.
Miss E believes they were deliberately misled by the salesman in order  to secure  the deal.
Bristol Street Motors says it was satisfied that all the relevant paperwork had been correctly 
actioned and signed to show Mr B wanted  to proceed with the PCP.  It says the signed 
Duty of Care document clearly showed the duration of the agreement, the monthly  
payments, the interest rate, the final payment due and the agreed annual  mileage. 
Bristol Street Motors adds  that the equivalent  monthly payment on a Hire Purchase  
agreement would have  been £280  to £290  which would have been outside their stated  
monthly budget  of £200. It says the finance  agreement also made the nature of the 
agreement clear on the first page and there is nothing to suggest  it was a Hire Purchase  
agreement at 0% APR.
Bristol Street Motors says the agreement was e-signed on 23 April 2018 and standard  
practice would  have been for a copy to be printed  for Mr Bs records. It says it was unable to 
identify any form of mis-selling.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said there was 
insufficient evidence  to show Mr B was told he was entering into a 0% interest  hire purchase 
agreement. He added that documents signed by Mr B showed the nature of the agreement.
Miss E responded to say, in summary,  that Mr B did not sign the actual contract and a copy  
of it was never given  to them  at the time. She added that the salesman did not go through  
the Duty of Care  form, but just asked for a signature  to confirm hed asked the questions.  
Miss E adds that the issue goes further  than a mis-sale complaint as Mr B actually signed a 
different agreement to the one that is now being presented.
As a result, a second adjudicator reviewed  Mr Bs complaint, but was also of the opinion that 
it should not be upheld. He said he could  not agree there was a separate agreement at the 
point of sale and that Mr B could have asked to read the Duty of Care  document which 
Ref: DRN15319202shows it was a PCP agreement.  Our adjudicator said he hadnt seen any evidence that false 
statements were made  in relation to the agreement so couldnt  agree it was misrepresented.
Miss E requested a further  review by an ombudsman as she added  that the contract 
Bristol Street Motors produced showed  the incorrect amount borrowed and notes  she had 
from the conversation  on the day of the purchase  say nothing else was due after the monthly 
instalments.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory, as some of it is here, I must make my 
decision based on the balance of probability.  That is, what  I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
Miss E says they were never given a copy of the finance agreement  at the time of the 
purchase and I have no reason to doubt what she says.  I accept  Bristol  Street Motors says it 
is usual practice to print this off once a consumer  has signed it electronically, but it is 
possible this didnt happen in this case.
That said,  that, in itself, is not evidence that the nature of the agreement  was misrepresented 
to Mr B. I have also looked at the other available evidence and Im not persuaded that the 
agreement was misrepresented  to Mr B. I say that because:
I have seen no paperwork  that indicates  either a 0% deal, or a hire purchase  
agreement was agreed;
I have seen the notes from Miss Es mobile phone  which say £211.05 over 4 years 
nothing else to pay, but I cant  conclude this is evidence the agreement was 
misrepresented as Mr B did have  the option to hand back  the car after four years  with 
no further payments:
oThe Sales Agency  Agreement, which Mr B signed electronically,  also clearly 
states the £7,497 final payment as a guaranteed  price and I consider it likely 
that there would  have  been a discussion about Mr Bs options at the end of 
the four-year period before this document was signed;
Im satisfied  that, even  if Mr B wasnt given a copy of the finance  agreement,  he was 
given a copy of the Duty of Care document showing all the relevant information,  
including the interest  rate and final payment;
Mr B physically  signed the Duty of Care on the same page  as all the financial 
information and the customer declaration was just under where it says: The 
agreement is a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP). You will not own the vehicle until 
you have paid all of the payments including the Guaranteed Minimum Future  Value  
of £7,497.00.
Although I acknowledge Miss E says Mr B wasnt given any time to read through  the 
document, I consider a cursory glance  would have  shown the agreement was not a 
0% hire purchase agreement;
Ref: DRN15319203Mr B had an opportunity to cancel the agreement within the 14-day  cooling off period 
once hed had a chance to read through the paperwork  but Bristol  Street  Motors  says 
it didnt receive any such  request;
Miss E says she recognised the payments  seemed  low compared with the cost of the 
car, but was persuaded by the explanation given by Bristol Street Motors about  being 
able to claim back VAT because of the 0% deal.
oBut, even with this explanation, a 0% finance  deal over four years would have 
meant the monthly instalments  were more like £265,  rather than the £211  in 
the agreement, although I accept a five-year deal would have seen  payments  
at roughly the same level;
oBristol Street Motors confirmed that Mr B said his monthly budget was £200.
So, in conclusion, although I sympathise with the position in which  Mr B now finds  himself,  I 
havent seen any evidence that the finance agreement was misrepresented to him, or that he 
signed a different agreement to the one which Bristol Street Motors has now sent him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1531920