K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited  (Astrenska) failed to arrange post-
operative home care and assistance under his private medical  health  insurance policy.
References to Astrenska include its agents.
background
On 2 January  2019, Mr H told Astrenska that he was due to have a hip replacement 
operation on 8 January. He wanted to use the benefit under his policy  for up to 14 hours  
necessary care or assistance at home  for up to one week.  Astrenska needed to assess  
whether he was going to be eligible for this.
He called Astrenska  again on the 3 January for an update  and was told he could use the 
care and assistance benefit.  So Mr H asked for the assistance to start on 15 January as he 
already had family assistance for the first few days after he was due to leave the hospital.  
Under the policy terms, Astrenska needed  to arrange for a detailed assessment of Mr Hs 
needs. But Mr H wasnt contacted after this and so he called Astrenska on 11 January, after 
hed had his operation. He was told hed be phoned back. He didnt hear anything and so he 
called Astrenska on 14 January. Astrenska then arranged for an assessment of Mr Hs 
needs on 16 January.  Mr H says he wasnt made aware of this beforehand, the 
representative just turned up.
During the assessment, Mr H says he was told a carer wouldnt be available  at the times he 
required. There was also some confusion on the part of the representative about what cover 
Mr H had and what support he was entitled to. Following the assessment, Mr H contacted  
Astrenska to cancel  the request for assistance.
Mr H complained to Astrenska. It apologised it wasnt able to give the service  he needed and 
offered Mr H £30 to compensate him for the delay before the home visit was arranged.  Mr H 
wasnt happy with this and so he came  to our service.
Our investigator looked into matters and thought the decision made to cancel the assistance 
on 17 January was Mr Hs decision and the assistance still couldve been provided  to him. 
However, he felt the service Astrenska had given Mr H had fallen below what  he was entitled 
to expect. So he recommended that Astrenska pay a total of £150  to Mr H.
Mr H accepted this but Astrenska disagrees.  It says the recommendation of £150 is 
excessive. And, as it feels it was Mr Hs choice to cancel  the assistance  on 17 January, it 
says £30 is adequate. The matter has now been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Ref: DRN18998282Having done so, I think the investigator has reached  the right outcome. So I uphold  Mr Hs 
complaint in this matter.  I think  the investigator  has explained matters clearly  and thoroughly  
so theres very little for me to add.
The terms and conditions  of the policy require the policy holder to tell Astrenska before 
theyre due to be admitted to hospital. Mr H did this on 2 January 2019. But a representative 
didnt visit him to assess the support  hed need until 16 January. This was the day after hed 
asked for home assistance to start, which was two weeks after hed first contacted  it and one 
week after hed had the operation. I dont think that was reasonable, particularly given  the 
nature of this benefit. Furthermore, even if Mr H was happy with the cover that was 
available, it wouldn't have  been given to him when he needed it to start as this time had 
already passed  when  he met the representative  on 16 January.
Instead, Mr H was in the position of having  to chase Astrenska to find out what  was 
happening with the assistance  and then arrange  for additional assistance at home after hed 
had an operation. And I think this wouldve been both difficult and inconvenient for him.
If an assessment wasnt going  to be available to Mr H in time to arrange the assistance hed 
asked for when he needed  it, more shouldve been  done to make him aware of this sooner 
so that he had time to make alternative  arrangements before he had the operation. Having 
said this, from the emails Astrenska have  sent to our service, its my view that the delay in 
arranging the assessment  was due to communication issues within  Astrenska and with the 
provider it used to carry out assessments and give care.
Ive thought about the claims process  and level of service given by Astrenska very carefully, 
looking at what it was responsible for and the impact that wouldve had on Mr H. Having 
done so, I think  its clear that the service given  to Mr H fell below  the level he was entitled to 
expect. And this wouldve caused  both distress and inconvenience at what was already a 
difficult time. So I agree with our investigator that Astrenska should pay Mr H a total amount 
of compensation  of £150 for the distress  and inconvenience he experienced because of 
Astrenskas poor service in handling his claim for assistance. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. To put things right, I require 
Astrenska Insurance  Limited to pay £150 to him for the distress and inconvenience caused 
in this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1899828