K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the rental  that hes been  charged by Arval UK Limited at the end of a 
hire agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr W under a hire agreement with Arval that was dated  in August 
2016. The agreement  was for 24 months and ended in September  2018  but Mr W didnt 
tell Arval that the car was available for collection until October 2018 and it charged him 
additional rental of £312.01. He complained to Arval about that charge. It said that it doesnt 
contact customers to arrange collection of the car at the end of the agreement  as its the 
drivers responsibility to make it available for collection. He wasnt satisfied with its response 
so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She thought  that it 
was the hirers responsibility to let Arval know when the car was available to be inspected 
and collected.  She didnt  think  that it had done anything  wrong  by assuming the extra month 
was an informal extension  of the lease. Mr W had had access  to and the benefit  of the car 
for one month longer  so she thought  that it was fair for him to pay the additional  rental 
charge.
Mr W has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. He says,  in 
summary, that British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations code of conduct relating to 
end of contract procedures says that: :
Before the end of the lease or finance agreement, members will clearly explain: the 
end-of-lease vehicle  return standard, including: vehicle condition, service  and 
maintenance, vehicle accessories and MOT (if appropriate); the vehicle collection 
process and inspection procedure; and the customers rights relating to disputes  over 
the vehicle collection  process and inspection  procedure. 
He also says that the Financial Conduct Authoritys principles  require that:
Consumers are provided with clear information  and are kept appropriately informed 
before, during and after the point  of sale.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mr W and to Arval  on 3 March 2020.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
The hire agreement was for 24 months until September 2018. Mr W had the car for 
more than an additional month  after that so Arval has charged him additional rental of 
£312.01. Arval  says that it doesnt  contact customers to arrange  collection of a car at 
the end of the agreement,  as it is the hirers responsibility to make  the car available 
for collection at the end of the agreement. It says that as the agreement  end date is 
known and set out in the agreement, the date that the car needs to be returned had 
already been advised  to Mr W.
The hire agreement says:
Ref: DRN15795422At the end of the Contract Term  (or on early termination of this Agreement  or 
late return of the Vehicle) the Hirer will make the Vehicle available for 
collection.
The agreement set out that it was for 24 months  and that Mr W had to make the car 
available for collection  at the end of the agreement.  So Arval says that its the hirers 
responsibility to make  the car available for collection.
Mr W has referred to the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations code of 
conduct relating  to end of contract  procedures and the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
principles. I consider that it would be reasonable to expect Arval  to have contacted 
Mr W before  his agreement ended to make  him aware of what  he needed to do, his 
options and potential liabilities.  I dont consider that its reasonable for Arval to rely 
solely on the information set out in the agreement.
But I consider that the evidence shows that Mr W was aware that his agreement  was 
ending and that he chose not to contact Arval but to wait for it to contact him to 
arrange for the car to be collected. He had the car for more than an additional  month 
 and he had the use and benefit of the car during that period. So I consider that its 
fair and reasonable that he should  pay for additional rental of £312.01 that hes been 
charged by Arval. 
But Arvals failure to contact Mr W before his agreement ended has caused him 
distress and inconvenience. I consider that it would  be fair and reasonable for it to 
reduce that charge by £100 as compensation for that distress and inconvenience. 
Arval has passed  Mr Ws account  to a debt collection agency  and it has contacted 
him about the debt  and additional charges have been added. But I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Mr W to pay £212.01 to Arval to clear his account.
Subject to any further representations by Mr W or Arval, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold  this complaint in part.
Mr W says that it's not accurate to say that he hadn't made  contact with Arval as he was the 
one making the contact  with it in order to arrange the collection. He also says that he thinks  
that Arval hasn't made it clear  in the documentation  that he ought to make the contact  not 
them. He said that he would send an e-mail with his response to my provisional  decision - 
but he hasnt done so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision.
Mr W had the car for more than a month after the end of the agreement and I consider that 
its fair and reasonable that he should  pay £312.01 for the time that he had the car. But I 
dont consider that its reasonable  for Arval  to rely solely  on the information set out in the 
agreement about  the collection of the car and its failure to contact Mr W before his 
agreement ended has caused him distress  and inconvenience. I consider that it would be fair 
and reasonable for it to reduce the charge  of £312.01 by £100 as compensation for that 
distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN15795423Mr W says that he contacted Arval to arrange  the return  of the car and that it didnt make it 
clear that he had to contact it. But I consider  that its fair and reasonable for him to pay 
£312.01 for the time that he had the car less the £100 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience that he was caused.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and I 
order Arval UK Limited to reduce  the amount that its charged Mr W to £212.01.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1579542