K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr H and Mrs C payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1994.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr H and Mrs C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr H says it was implied that they had to have  PPI and he feels  it was imposed on them.  
The problem I have,  in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt  know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were  said.  It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy,  even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth  having. The 
closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative  to taking the 
policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it 
wouldnt be fair to say Lloyds did something wrong unless I had stronger  evidence  of this. 
The evidence is that the documents set out the PPI as a choice. I say this because  Ive seen 
the mortgage application form, and you have to tick a box to say whether you want PPI. I 
can see that a box has been signed  to apply for PPI. The form has been signed by Mr H and 
Mrs C.
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H and Mrs C, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
particular circumstances  of Mr H (who  was the person covered). However, finding yourself 
unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Mr H and 
Mrs Cs situation at the time:
Its likely  Mr H was eligible  for the policy. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mr H received  any employer 
sick pay. It would  have paid unemployment benefits  in addition to any redundancy 
pay. And it would  have put off the time when Mr H and Mrs C would need to fall back 
on any savings or other  means  they may have had for paying  the mortgage  and other  
living costs. This all would have put Mr H and Mrs C in a more secure position, if 
theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ref: DRN18888212Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some  things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr H would 
have been affected  by any of these
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr H and Mrs C to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely  that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Mr H and Mrs C took the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2020. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1888821