K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest)  
handled their application  to port their mortgage.  
background
Mr and Mrs W were looking to move home in October 2018. They  wanted  to transfer their 
existing mortgage  with NatWest to a new property (a process known as porting). But their 
application was declined. They subsequently  sold their property and incurred an early  
repayment charge  (ERC) when  redeeming the mortgage. They didnt proceed with their 
purchase, and instead moved  into rented accommodation.
Mr and Mrs W complained to NatWest. They said theyd been led to believe that the porting 
process was straightforward   in particular Mrs W recalled being told it was as simple  as 
living in your current house one day, moving  to your new house the next  and that solicitors 
would take care of everything. They only belatedly found out that theyd need to submit  an 
application, and couldnt understand why NatWest  had then declined  that. 
NatWest didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. It said that in Mrs Ws initial call about 
porting, its adviser  had been very clear about  the process  including that a new application,  
subject to underwriting,  would be needed. And while it thought the adviser Mrs W spoke to in 
a subsequent call couldve  been a bit more helpful,  it didnt think  hed misled her. 
On the decision  to decline the application itself, NatWest said it hadnt  met the banks 
criteria. It said factors  had included  the level of Mr and Mrs Ws unsecured borrowing, 
payment difficulties on other accounts  and that they were looking to increase the loan-to-
value ratio (in other  words, they were looking to borrow  a greater share  of the property  
value).
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and referred their concerns to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into things and upheld  the complaint in part. In summary, he 
said:
-Having listened  to the calls in question, NatWest had given Mrs W clear information 
about the porting process in the initial call but had contradicted this in the second  
one. While he didnt think that Mrs Ws recollections of what shed been told were  
understandably  entirely accurate, he thought  shed understandably been left with 
the incorrect impression that there was nothing further to do with the bank and that 
her solicitor would handle everything. 
-He didnt think this had affected  the chain of events. In his view, Mr and Mrs W would 
still have  continued  with the application  had they been given the right information.  
And he didnt  think the banks decision  was unreasonable, so they wouldve ended  
up in the same  position. So he didnt  think NatWest needed to refund the ERC, as Mr 
and Mrs W were  seeking.
-He thought that to put things right,  NatWest  should apologise and pay Mr and Mrs W 
compensation of £300. He said that finding  out about the application process so late 
in the day wouldve  caused them some trouble and upset, especially in light of other 
issues theyd been dealing with around  this time.
Ref: DRN12808002While NatWest accepted  that it couldve communicated the relevant information better, it still 
thought that what  its advisers had said was correct.  But in the interest of resolving things, it 
agreed to pay the compensation proposed by our investigator.  
Mr and Mrs W didnt  think the compensation went far enough  in light of the incorrect  
information theyd  been given. They said they couldve explored other options if theyd been  
told the right thing at the right time, possibly not proceeding with the sale at all. Theyd gone 
ahead for the benefit of those in the chain and were now worse off  despite NatWest being  
in the wrong. So they asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint, and it was passed  
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W were looking to switch their existing mortgage with NatWest to a new interest 
rate product  last October. But around  the same  time, they also decided  to sell their property. 
They had an offer for a new fixed rate with NatWest that they were mulling over.  That offer 
included information  about porting under a section headed What happens if you move 
house?. And that set out that while the new deal was portable, it was subject to a new 
application that had to meet the banks lending criteria. I think  the porting process was 
clearly explained  here.
In any event, before accepting the offer Mrs W called  NatWest to find out if theyd be able to 
transfer the mortgage if they moved house.  Ive listened to a recording of that conversation.  I 
think the adviser explained clearly  that while the new mortgage product was portable, this 
was dependent on an application.  The adviser made a point of telling Mrs W that it wasnt 
just a matter of closing  down  one mortgage  and starting another.  Rather, theyd have to 
submit an application  to be assessed by an underwriter, which  would include an income  and 
expenditure assessment and checks on the property.  So I think the process was explained 
clearly here too.
Mr and Mrs W then went on to accept the new rate. I dont think  they were misinformed or 
misled about porting   and in particular  that it was subject to application   before doing so.  
But I think NatWest did give Mrs W incorrect information when she called again a little later,  
once theyd found the property they wished to purchase. Ive also listened to a recording of 
that conversation. Mrs W wanted to find out about  the process for porting. As noted above, 
Mr and Mrs W needed to submit  an application   but the adviser didnt tell them that. 
Instead, he suggested that all they needed to do was get their solicitors  to request a 
redemption figure:
Its just a case of getting the solicitors in question to send in  and they do 
this all the time, theyd  know about it  its basically sending in a request for 
a redemption. We can calculate it any day four weeks from todays date,  
but they need to send that request  in themselves and then we would send a 
redemption statement to them and then that its really.
Ref: DRN12808003Mrs W checked if there was anything else they needed to do and on clarifying that they were  
just porting, the adviser confirmed that there wasnt. That wasnt right.  So while  I didnt hear 
the adviser use the particular phrase Mrs W has quoted, I think  she legitimately understood 
from the conversation  that there  was nothing else that she needed to do and that the next 
steps would  be taken care of by her solicitor. 
Although Mr and Mrs W had been  given the correct information previously, I think  it was 
reasonable for them to rely on the information given  in this call. They  were  looking to port 
and wanted to know how to go about  it. They were told that they didnt  need  to do anything 
more, so they didnt.  And they only realised  that an application would be necessary when 
their solicitor  told them, a few weeks later.
I think finding out about the need for an application  further down the line wouldve been 
concerning for Mr and Mrs W. Buying and selling properties are stressful processes at the 
best of times  so this would only have  exacerbated things.  And it put them under tighter  
time constraints. In turn they found out about the banks decision to decline the application 
later than they otherwise wouldve done.  Im also mindful of the difficult personal 
circumstances they were expecting around  the time. So its right that Mr and Mrs W are 
compensated for this. Bearing in mind that the misinformation was corrected relatively 
quickly (albeit by Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor  rather than the bank), I think  the £300 already 
proposed represents  fair compensation for the trouble and upset they were caused by 
NatWests error.
Like our investigator,  I also think it would  be reasonable for NatWest to apologise  for its 
error. It doesnt seem to think its done anything wrong  but, to be clear, it failed to give 
Mrs W the right information in response to her queries. So it would be reasonable to expect 
an apology for that, and the upset it caused.
I know Mr and Mrs W dont think this goes far enough to make  up for what  happened.  In 
particular theyre unhappy  at having to pay the ERC  and want  the credit checks removed 
from their credit files. But once they knew they had to submit an application   and more 
significantly, once  that application  was declined  it was then their choice as to how to 
proceed. They opted to go ahead with the sale, incur  the ERC and move  out without a 
mortgage offer in place. 
Mr and Mrs W have  suggested that they wouldve weighed up their options if theyd received 
the correct information from NatWests  advisers   and may have acted differently. As Ive 
said above, I found that the only occasion  on which they were misinformed was the second 
call. The correct information then would simply have  been to say that theyd need to apply to 
port. And I dont think  that wouldve led them to act any differently. The only thing that might  
have given Mr and Mrs W pause for thought wouldve been when they found out that their 
application was unsuccessful. But they wouldnt have found that on the second  call either.  
That decision would only have been reached  some  time later,  once the application had been 
submitted and considered. And in the event,  when they got that decision they chose to go 
ahead. So I dont think the fairly short delay in receiving this decision wouldve changed  
things. Mr and Mrs W say they only did this out of courtesy to their buyers  and the rest of the 
chain  but while I appreciate their principled  stance on this, I dont think I can hold NatWest  
responsible for the consequences of that decision.
Ref: DRN12808004Ive also reviewed NatWests decision to decline the application. But I dont think  it acted 
unreasonably here.  Porting was always subject to the banks approval   in line with the 
terms and conditions of the contract, and as is common practice across the industry. While 
the misinformation above was regrettable,  NatWest  was still entitled to consider Mr and 
Mrs Ws application in line with its usual  processes.
Looking at the decision itself, NatWest explained to Mr and Mrs W that the application  failed 
due to a combination of credit-scoring  and the increased loan to value  ratio. Its concerns 
over Mr and Mrs Ws financial circumstances coupled with the increase to the risk led it to 
decline the application. While Mr and Mrs W werent looking to amend the terms of the 
borrowing they already had, it was still an application for a new mortgage. I think the bank 
was entitled to decide whether it wished to lend on that basis,  and I dont think its decision 
was unreasonable.
As Ive said above,  once  the application was declined  it was then up to Mr and Mrs W to 
decide how they wished to proceed.  As they opted  to go ahead  and redeem  the mortgage, 
the ERC  was applied  in line with the terms and conditions of the account. So theres no 
basis on which I can fairly ask NatWest to refund it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and require 
National Westminster Bank Plc to apologise  for its error and pay them £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2020.4
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1280800