K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  in 1994 and in 1995.  
background
Mr and Mrs A bought the regular premium policies alongside loans in 1994 and 1995.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. As Nationwide disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint was passed  to me. 
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 17 January 2020, a copy  of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 17 February 2019.  At the time of writing I have received no further  
submission from Mr and Mrs A or any request for an extension.  The decision was sent to the 
correct addresses for them, so I consider  that Mr and Mrs A have had sufficient  time to make 
a submission had they wanted to. Nationwide has responded saying it does not wish to 
make any further submission. So I am proceeding to my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs As case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents  available  
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party  has been able to 
provide any documentation as these  events happened over 25 years  ago. Its also the case  
that the policies ended  approximately 23 years ago and the later loan itself ended  over 
21 years  ago. So, its no surprise  at all that neither nationwide nor Mr and Mrs A have any 
documents from the actual sales to share from that time.  
Ive first looked at whether Nationwide gained consent and whether it made clear to 
Mr and Mrs A that the policies were optional.  Nationwide has provided a copy  of the sort of 
loan agreement it thinks that Mr and Mrs A would  have seen when signing to get the loans. It 
thinks the PPI covered the first named  party  of the loan agreement and thinks that was, most  
likely, Mr A. Nationwide also thinks the PPI is described as Optional Credit Insurance on the 
loan agreements which also show the monthly  costs.  So having  considered all the 
submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that Nationwide wouldve 
made Mr and Mrs A aware  that the PPI policies were optional and that they chose to take 
them, even though Mrs A may not remember that now,  many years later. 
Ref: DRN17323482Ive not been provided a policy document from the time of the sale.  But Nationwide has given 
us a policy document from soon after the time of sale and Ive also considered  other policy 
documents from before and around  this time. Having thought carefully  about  this, I think  its 
most likely that the terms and conditions of these policies are broadly similar  to those sold to 
Mr and Mrs A. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs A, so it didnt have to check  if 
they were right for them.  But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs A got the information they 
needed to decide if they were right for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like Mr A 
was affected by any of the exclusions from or limitations to the PPI cover. And Ive 
considered that whilst Mrs A told us that their initial  sick pay was good over 12 months,  
Mrs A also told us they had no other means  to rely on to help meet her repayments. Upon a 
successful claim  the policy couldve paid out for either up to 24 months if ill health stopped 
Mr A from working or until the loan was repaid.  And it would have also provided  help if Mr A 
lost his job. So, I think Mr and Mrs A couldve found the policy  useful. So I dont  think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
The adjudicator initially thought that Mr A may have been ineligible for the 1994 policy.  In 
saying that, they had placed weight on a screen shot from Nationwide that suggested Mr A 
had worked for a housing association since September 1993. And to be eligible Mr A needed  
to have been in continuous  employment for six months before the sale. However, Nationwide 
subsequently apologised  for the screenshot that it had sent us and explained they also had a 
record that suggested Mr A had in fact worked for a company called Care and Repair and 
had been working for them for several  years. In thinking about this, I have noted that this 
testimony from Nationwide is supported by the testimony of Mrs A in this case. In completing 
our questionnaire Mrs A told us that Mr A had been working for Care and Repair and had 
been for 6 years  at the time of the sales. So, on balance, I believe  that having  considered  all 
of the evidence in this case, Mr A was, most  likely, eligible for the policies that are the subject 
of this complaint.  
So, for the reasons given above,  I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order  to decide  
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence  of any 
further points  for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN17323483my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not think  the PPI 
policy was mis-sold  so I do not uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  26 March  2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1732348