K821x#15complaint
Mr I says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance policy (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mr I took out in July 1999.
The PPI was sold to Mr I by a third party but FICL  have accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things  simple.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL didnt respond so the complaint  has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Is case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Is complaint  and I will explain why.
Ive looked at the policy document  I think wouldve  been in use at the time of the sale.  It was 
a requirement within  this policy for Mr I to be working a minimum of 16 hours  per week if he 
wanted to claim under  the accident,  sickness and unemployment benefits. These were the 
main benefits of the policy.
I think this term given  in the policy wouldve mattered to Mr I as hes told us he was not 
working at the time of the sale. Mr I has been clear to our service that this was the case but 
at some point there was some conflicting  information  about this. So our service has gone 
back and clarified  with Mr I what his employment  status was at the time of sale.  He has again  
reiterated that he was not employed and provided further information about this detailing his 
circumstances. So on balance after reading his latest submission, I think  I can rely on what  
he has said. And I think its very unlikely Mr I would have much  documentary evidence of his 
employment status from such a long time ago. 
This means  Mr I was most likely not able to claim under the accident, sickness  or 
unemployment sections  of the policy, which were  the main benefits. And if Mr I had known 
this, I dont think he wouldve bought the policy. I havent seen enough to suggest  he was 
given clear information on this. So, I think Mr I has lost out because of what  FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mr I in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr I would  have owed  when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN13688652So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr I owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr I made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr I would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr I would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr I 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr I paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Mr I wouldve 
owed FICL something on his store card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr I what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give   
Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Is complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1368865