K822xcomplaint
Mr G and Mrs G are unhappy that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) removed Mr Gs name 
from an account they held jointly, and replaced it with the name of a family member who had 
passed away. As a result,  Mr G couldnt pass security or access  his account. 
background 
Mr G logged onto his online banking in April 2019  to find that his account, which  held a 
considerable sum of money, wasnt  showing. Santander said it couldnt  resolve  the issue  
unless he went into branch with proof of his ownership of the account and photo ID. But 
Mr G was going abroad that same day and wouldnt be returning  until late May. 
The account  had been in the name  of Mr G and his mother, Mrs G. Mr G said hed added  
Mrs G several  years  prior to allow her access to the account while  he travelled. When Mr G 
contacted Santander to query his account access, it advised that Mr Gs late father was on 
the account instead of him. 
Santander admitted  it made an error. Mr G had been incorrectly named on a joint mortgage 
account with his mother, instead of his late father.  And when this was amended,  Mr G was 
mistakenly removed from the joint current account.  But Santander showed that direct debit 
payments were still being made, the debit card was still being used, and said that Mr G didnt 
regularly access his online banking. So, while the complaint was with our service,  it said it 
would pay £200  in compensation, and would change  the name back  on the account,  which  it 
ultimately did but seemingly not at the first attempt.
Mr G said the whole matter has been extremely inconvenient, time-consuming and stressful 
and felt that compensation of £25,000 was due. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. He recognised  that an error had been made but 
noted that direct debits  were still being paid and the debit card could  still be used. He also 
said that Mrs G could  still have accessed the account, so felt that the £200 offered was fair.
Mr G and Mrs G disagreed. Mr G said that hed spent a long time trying to resolve an issue 
caused by Santander; that his mother was on the account for emergency purposes  only and 
wasnt registered for online banking; that he was prevented from making  investments from 
this account leading to delays, limitations and lost potential gains; and that he hasnt been 
told why the error had occurred or been given any assurance that the same thing wouldnt 
happen again in future.  
So the complaint has been passed  to me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will be disappointing for Mr G and Mrs G, I think  the £200 offered fairly  
reflects whats gone wrong here.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN12862392I recognise that this matter wouldve been frustrating, inconvenient and stressful,  particularly 
as Mr G wasnt going to be in the country  to resolve  the issue. But the first thing to note here 
is that the money in the account wasnt lost or at risk. It was a case of Mr G not being on the 
account when  he shouldve been.  So Ive thought about the impact of this. 
Direct debits  were still being  paid and the debit card was still being used so Im satisfied 
there wasnt an issue in this regard. And it doesnt appear, based  on Santanders records,  
that Mr G regularly used  his online banking facility. But Mr G has said he wasnt able to 
invest as much elsewhere as he wanted  to as he wasnt  able to access this money. I havent 
seen enough proof that Mr G wasnt able to make the investments hed intended  to make.  
But Im also not persuaded that Mrs G couldnt have moved the money  for him, if required. 
I appreciate that Mr G has said he didnt want to involve his mother.  He suggested  that she 
wouldve had difficulty communicating with Santander because of a language barrier.  But 
most businesses wouldve  tried to facilitate  communication  by using translation services so I 
dont think it would be fair to say that Santander wouldnt have been able to help. And I note 
that Mr Gs reason for adding Mrs G to the account was to allow  her access to the account 
while he travelled.
After agreeing to reinstate Mr G as an account holder, I can see that it took a while for this to 
happen successfully.  And I acknowledge this wouldve added further frustration to an already 
frustrating situation.  
I know that Mr G is unhappy that it hasnt  been  made clear  why the initial  error happened.  
But, other than the explanation given, Santander  hasnt  been able to provide anything  
further. It doesnt dispute that it made an error  but, because  it doesnt  know  why this error 
happened, it cant provide  assurances  it wont happen again. I accept this isnt ideal  but 
unfortunately mistakes  do happen  sometimes. So it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask for 
anything further  from Santander here.  
When an error happens, my role is to think about  any financial losses incurred and whether 
any compensation should be paid for the trouble and upset caused. Im not persuaded there  
were any financial losses. But I recognise that this situation wouldve been troubling and 
upsetting. This is for all the reasons mentioned previously but also because it involved 
Mr Gs late father. But I think that, overall,  £200 is a fair reflection of what went  wrong here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that this complaint  should be upheld  and 
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr G and Mrs G £200  for their distress and inconvenience. 
Payment is to be made within 28 days of receiving  notification  from us of Mr G and Mrs 
Gs acceptance of this decision, after which time interest will accrue  on the amount  
payable at the simple  rate of 8% a year until the date of settlement (less  any tax that may 
lawfully be deductible).  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2020.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1286239