K822xcomplaint
Ms T complains that British Gas Insurance Limited refused to do repairs  on her home.
background
Ms T got in touch with us to tell us about  a claim that BGI had declined. She said that BGI 
had told her it wouldnt cover her for a leak at her property, because the copper pipes which 
leaked in her home hadnt been covered  in plastic to protect  them from the corrosive effect 
of the concrete that surrounded  them. But she said that her builder had told her that at the 
time that this pipework  was installed it just wasnt common practice to lag pipes  in that way. 
So she didnt think it was fair for BGI to say that the problem was bad workmanship. 
BGI wrote to Ms T to say that a leak had been located on the shower pipework, which was 
under floor level. It said that the pipework was found  to be brittle, as it had been exposed  to 
concrete. It said that this may be linked to poor installation. BGI said that this wouldnt be 
covered under Ms Ts policy.  
It sent the relevant part of its terms and conditions  to Ms T. That says:
our products dont  include  cover  for any faults or design faults  that:  
We couldnt reasonably have  been expected to know  about before. For example, 
faulty pipes that dont  have the correct  protection, which are buried under concrete 
floors.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that there wasnt a fault with the plumbing 
before the policy started.  And it wasnt clear to her that there was a design fault either,  
because shed not seen anything to suggest that the pipework wasnt installed correctly, in 
line with industry standards as they were at the time.  She said that Ms Ts claim should  be 
covered, and BGI should  pay £150 in compensation for the frustration this has caused Ms T. 
BGI didnt  agree  with that. It said that its terms and conditions were very clear  that repairs  
such as these werent covered under Ms Ts policy.  It said that pipework which  is exposed  to 
concrete must be lagged  for protection or the lime in the concrete would eat away  at the 
copper. Regrettably  no type of survey  would show that the pipework wasnt  lagged. And it 
was the pipework not being lagged that had caused  the leak. 
Our service replied to say that our established position is that when were considering if 
something is faulty, well consider if it was faulty  at the time it was made or built.  And BGI 
hadnt shown  us that there was anything  wrong  with this pipework at the time it was installed. 
BGI said that it hadnt changed its view. As an insurer it took a business decision to exclude 
repairs to unprotected  pipework which was buried in concrete. It said that it appreciated that 
this was frustrating, and it noted our comments regarding building  regulations at the time, but 
it said that it didnt  agree that it should repair something that was a clear  exclusion in its 
terms and conditions. 
Ms T didnt agree with what BGI had said. She said that BGI was just relying on this clause 
to exclude expensive repairs. She said that she couldnt have known in advance  either that 
this pipework had been  installed in this way, and questioned how this insurance  had been 
sold to her. 
Ref: DRN13899722Ms T also said that if the exclusion was for problems that BGI couldnt  reasonably  have 
been expected to know about before which included faulty  pipes that dont have the correct 
protection , which are buried under concrete floors  then she didnt think that applied  in this 
case. Firstly, she said that plumbing  dating  from the time her house was built, installed in line 
with the practices  of the time, could be expected to be found in a house of that age. And 
secondly, she said that the pipes  which leaked  were in a wall behind the tiles in the shower 
cubicle rather than under  the floor. The pipes under the floor werent embedded in the 
concrete, they were  raised above it.
Because no agreement had been  reached on how to resolve this case, it was passed  to me 
for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then:
-Ms T had home emergency insurance  which covered her for repairs to her plumbing. 
Aside from the exemption that it relied on, BGI hadnt suggested that there  was any other 
problem with covering her claim.
-The first question I needed to consider was whether  the leak was in fact in an area of 
pipework which was likely to have  been  damaged as a result of being  surrounded by 
concrete. Ms T said that the leak was in the wall, and that area was surrounded  by 
concrete. But BGIs report stated  that the leak was under the floor. And Ms T told us that 
the pipework under  the floor was raised above the concrete, rather than embedded in it. 
BGI hasnt shown us any job sheets  for this work, or pictures of the problem. So it wasnt 
clear to me that I could safely conclude, on the evidence that had been provided here, 
that the problem had actually arisen in the way that BGI suggested. 
-The second question  was, if the pipework  was damaged by being exposed to concrete, 
whether it would be fair to exclude  the leak from cover because of that. Id set out the 
exclusion that BGI relied on. For this exclusion to apply, the leak had to have  been  
caused by a fault or design fault. And it had to be something that BGI couldnt 
reasonably have been expected to know about  before.
-Our investigator pointed out that there had been nothing  from BGI to show that this 
installation wouldve been considered  either a fault or a design fault at the time of the 
installation. That is the test that our service applies in these cases.  I agreed  that BGI 
hadnt shown  that the installation that leaked was a fault or a design fault. 
-Ms T also told us that her builder viewed this as a standard  installation  for a home of this 
age. Whilst we had suggested to BGI that it might like to show  that this installation 
wouldve been considered faulty  at this time, it hadnt done so. The information from 
Ms Ts builder was the only expert  evidence  that I had on this point. It seemed likely that 
he was right, and many  homes  from this era do have unlagged  copper pipes encased in 
concrete.
-For that reason,  I didnt think it was likely that there was a fault or design fault. And 
without that, I didnt think that BGI could rely on this exclusion. 
Ref: DRN13899723-Our investigator suggested as a resolution to this complaint, that BGI should pay some 
compensation, and also do the work  to repair the leak in Ms Ts home. But wed spoken 
to Ms T recently, and she had since had a considerable amount of work done  on her 
bathroom, which included these repairs. So I thought that instead  of doing the work, BGI 
should make a contribution towards  the work that Ms T had done.  
-I thought that BGI should pay £500  towards  the work that Ms T had done.  I said I would 
consider further  evidence from either  side on this point, but my view then was that this 
would be a reasonable contribution towards the part of the work  she had done that 
shouldve been covered by her policy, which was work to repair the leaking shower  and 
make good. I thought  that would be a fair resolution to this complaint. I didnt think  that 
BGI would  need to pay any further  compensation in addition to that.
-I anticipated that BGI may have  paid rather less for this work if it had commissioned the 
repairs itself. But I didnt  think  it would  be fair to limit the payment to what BGI wouldve  
paid if it had sent its own workmen to do the job. BGI had repeatedly  refused to do this 
work. When BGI did that, it left Ms T without a functioning shower. And that situation 
went on for quite some time. It wasnt unreasonable for Ms T to have decided in late 
2018 to get this work done herself, in these  circumstances. And it wouldnt be fair if the 
financial burden of fixing her shower, which shouldve been covered by her policy with 
BGI, then fell predominantly on Ms T because  of a decision  that BGI made. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides accepted  my provisional decision.
my findings
Even though  neither side has put forward any new arguments against my proposed decision, 
Ive still reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Ms T £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1389972