K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains Bradford & Bingley  Plc mis-sold her waiver  of premium  benefit when she 
took out an endowment policy through it in 1996.
background
In 1996 Ms T took out an endowment policy with waiver of premium  benefit on the advice of 
Bradford & Bingley.  The policy had a term of 20 years and a monthly premium of £109.24.
In 2004 Ms T complained  the recommendation to have an endowment policy  for repaying 
her mortgage wasnt suitable  advice. Bradford & Bingley agreed and so offered 
compensation in accordance with the regulators guidelines. Ms T accepted  the settlement.
In 2018 Ms T complained  about the sale of the waiver of premium  benefit. Bradford & 
Bingley declined to look at the complaint as the premiums for this had already  been 
accounted for in the compensation paid in 2004.  So Ms T asked us to look into the matter.
Our investigator concluded this was a different issue to that considered in 2004. But she 
thought the complaint had been  brought late  Bradford & Bingley consented us to 
investigating. Our investigator concluded the waver of premium  hadnt been mis-sold. 
Although it did contain  an exclusion relating to childbirth and pregnancy she didnt think  Ms T 
would have acted  any differently. Ms T also believed commission  had been paid and so in 
accordance with the Plevin ruling this should be refunded but the investigator  explained  this 
wasnt a complaint we could  consider  as it hadnt been made to the business. 
Ms T has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
I firstly need  to explain to Ms T that the waiver  of premium isnt a separate insurance policy 
sold alongside the endowment policy. It is just a benefit the endowment  provider offers in the 
circumstances of long term ill health  to ensure the benefits of paying into the endowment  
policy  the life cover (and any additional  critical illness cover) and investment value built up 
 arent  lost due to non-payment of premiums.  
It is there  to continue paying  the premiums in circumstances where the endowment  policy 
holder cant due to long term illness.  The provisions  of the Plevin  ruling do not apply here, as 
the benefit does not protect  repayments  to credit covered  by The Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
Its my understanding the only requirement was for Ms T to be told the commission  for the 
advice, and I can see she was.
I turn now to the suitability of the waiver of premium  itself.  As explained above, the benefit 
means premiums are waived towards the policy  in the event of long term illness and means 
the benefits of the policy arent  lost. 
Ms T is right there  is an exclusion relating  to childbirth  and pregnancy. And as a young  
female I understand the argument  Ms T makes  about the likelihood of that eventuality. But 
Ref: DRN18082142the exclusion applies to total permanent disablement, paralysis, loss of limb,  blindness, 
severe burns, coma, loss of hearing or loss of speech. So it is these illnesses/situations  that 
arent covered if they arise from pregnancy or childbirth  which  I consider to be far less 
likely than simply being pregnant or having  children. And such clauses arent  unusual.
Im also mindful that Ms T tells us she became aware of these clauses just after taking the 
policy out. Yet she didnt  cancel the benefit, even though it was an option  and that part of her 
premium was paying for it. So it seems to me that she did see a benefit in having it despite 
the clause detailed above. It is difficult to find that Ms T would have acted any differently had 
this information  been made any clearer before she agreed to it. 
Ms T is also unhappy she wasnt told the exact cost of the waiver  of premium. The cost is 
usually a very small percentage of the endowment premium itself.  It isnt known what  it is 
here, but is usually only a few pounds, depending on the premium for the endowment. Its 
hard to see that Ms T would have  decided not to opt for it had she known  the cost given  the 
benefit it provided  and that I have found  she would have gone ahead  with despite the 
clauses it contained.
Overall, Im not persuaded the waiver of premium  itself was mis-sold.  I am aware  that 
Bradford & Bingley  has already compensated Ms T for the sale of the endowment. And I do 
understand that if the endowment hadnt  been  sold then the waiver of premium  wouldnt 
have been sold either. But it was Ms Ts choice to continue  with the policy,  including the 
waiver of premium, after shed been compensated when  she didnt have to. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1808214