K821x#15Complaint
Mr F has complained that Elevate Credit  International Limited  (trading as Sunny) did not 
carry out proper  affordability checks when lending  to him. He says he became  dependent  on 
payday loans  and became stuck in a cycle of borrowing.
Background
Mr F took 8 loans with Sunny between August 2015  and November 2015.  Each  of the loans 
was due to be repaid  over a period of six months  but Mr F repaid the loans early.  Some of 
Mr Fs loans  overlapped  with one another. A summary of Mr Fs borrowing is shown below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsAmount 
(£)
1 25/08/2015 03/09/2015 24 weeks 150
2 01/09/2015 06/09/2015 24 weeks 100
3 04/09/2015 06/09/2015 24 weeks 300
4 07/09/2015 09/09/2015 24 weeks 300
5 11/09/2015 22/01/2016 24 weeks 550
6 13/09/2015 18/11/2015 24 weeks 200
7 17/09/2015 15/10/2015 24 weeks 150
8 02/11/2015 20/12/2015 24 weeks 150
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended  Sunny refund the interest  and 
charges on loans 5 to 8 as well as making amendments  to Mr Fs credit  file. She said if 
Sunny had done proportionate checks, it would have realised at loan 5 that Mr F was having 
problems repaying  his loans and from loan 6 onwards the overall pattern of Mr Fs borrowing 
suggested he had become persistently reliant on short-term loans. 
I issued my provisional decision on 3 January 2020 explaining why I was thinking of reaching  
the same  outcome as the adjudicator but for slightly different  reasons. 
Neither Mr F or his representative responded. Sunny didnt  accept my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered Sunnys response  to my provisional  decision, along with all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, my decision remains the same.  For completeness, I have set my 
provisional decision out below and addressed Sunnys arguments within  it to form my final 
decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  Sunny  lent to Mr F. 
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific  to consumer credit 
providers, such as Sunny.  
Ref: DRN19537282I am not quoting all the specific  regulations  here, because I would expect Sunny to be 
familiar with these through previous ombudsman decisions, particularly recent  decisions,  
which set these rules out in more detail.
It is important  to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other  words, the assessment needs  to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender  of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequence  as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the consumer  directly  relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible. That is to say; what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same  consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way.  
Certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So Sunny was required to establish  whether  Mr F could sustainably  repay his loans   not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  Mr F could 
sustainably make his repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments. 
Ref: DRN19537283So, it follows  that a lender  should  realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably - if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. 
I think the checks Sunny carried  out were proportionate for the first four loans. Mr F was in 
the early stages of his relationship with Sunny  and the amounts that Mr F needed  to repay  
were relatively modest compared to his income.
But by the time Mr F asked for loan 5, Sunny should have done more than relying on the 
information he was providing about  his finances.  Although Mr F was a relatively new 
customer and may have had a history of repaying  his loans early and was never  in arrears, it 
doesnt automatically follow that he managed to repay the loans in a sustainable way. This 
was Mr Fs fifth loan in two and a half weeks and the loan amount was almost four times 
what hed initially borrowed. 
I think by this point, Sunny should  have taken  steps to independently verify Mr Fs true 
financial position. Mr F provided us with some of his bank statements and credit file so we 
could see what better  checks would have shown Sunny.
Sunny says it did verify Mr Fs income  of £1,300.  It explained that it did so via the 
affordability check through the credit reference  agency. Sunny says this produced  a result 
indicating a 90% confidence  level. I appreciate Sunny  deems this as verifying Mr Fs actual 
income, but as explained in my provisional decision,  looking at Mr Fs bank statements I can 
see Mr F was actually  paid around  £246  weekly  so even with the very occasional five-
week month  this would  amount to less than the income Sunny verified. Sunny further 
explained that it only used a proportion  of the income verified  through  its credit checks. 
Even if I accept that Sunny verified and discovered Mr Fs actual income  through  its checks,  
I still havent seen  anything to suggest Sunny verified the actual extent  of Mr Fs expenses. 
Any arguments Sunny  is making  around Mr Fs disposable income still appear to be based 
on the expenses  Mr F declared  to Sunny. And a proportionate check would have likely 
revealed Mr F did not have £552.09  per month for unplanned expenditure.
As I said in my provisional decision,  if Sunny had done proportionate checks  and verified 
Mr Fs expenses, it wouldve learnt  that Mr F was spending a significant proportion of his 
income through on-line gambling  websites  - very frequently. For example, over three 
consecutive days in the run up to loan 5, Mr F spent around £540. There are similar patterns 
of spending throughout the statements Mr F has provided. I accept that there  were  
occasional credits from these websites, but they fell well - short of the sums Mr F was 
spending. 
There were other signs from his bank statements that Mr F was having problems managing 
his money; such as unpaid direct  debits and unplanned overdraft fees.  Given  all of this, I 
think Sunny  would have realised  that Mr F was unlikely to be able to repay loan 5 in a 
sustainable way and, as a responsible lender, Sunny would  not have agreed to lend Mr F 
loan 5.
Ref: DRN19537284Loan 6 was taken two days later and ran alongside loan 5 (thereby effectively extending 
Mr Fs borrowing even further). A further four days after this, loan 7 was taken out (whilst 
loans 5 and 6 were  still running). In the six days  between loan 5 and loan 7, Mr Fs 
circumstances had not changed  from those  set out above. Sunny says the requested  loan 
amounts were decreasing but this ignores the fact that the loans over lapped one another - 
so in fact Mr Fs overall indebtedness to Sunny was increasing. On this basis, I dont think 
Sunny would have  agreed to loans 6 and 7 either.
Loan 7 was then repaid and loan 8 was taken two weeks  later (with loans 5 and 6 still 
outstanding). Mr Fs circumstances hadnt  changed  in the three-week  period since he took 
loan 5, and so for the same reasons I am upholding the complaint about loans 5, 6 and 7, I 
am also upholding loan 8.
Putting things rights
I think Sunny  shouldnt have given Mr F loans 5 to 8 and should put things right as set out 
below:
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr F towards interest, fees and 
charges on these loans.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr F which  were  
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr F the total of A plus B.
D.Remove any adverse  information Sunny has recorded on Mr Fs credit  file in relation  
to loans 5 to 8. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny should 
give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr Fs complaint as Ive explained above  and in my
provisional decision. I require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put 
things right for Mr F as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1953728