K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about an application for a rate switch on an existing buy-to-let mortgage 
Mrs and Mr T made to Barclays Bank UK Plc in 2018. Theyre unhappy with how Barclays  
handled the application. They say it was delayed unnecessarily whilst other  transactions  
were progressed, causing them to pay a higher rate needlessly.
Barclays agreed to refund  extra interest  charged  between 3 March  and 3 June 2018, but 
Mrs and Mr T say it should be backdated to 3 February 2018.
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys  intended by that. Its a reflection  of the 
informal service  we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mrs and Mr T when my 
decision is published.
This is one of a number  of linked complaints involving other family members. Each one has 
been considered separately and discretely  from the others. However, all of the complaints 
arise from a common set of circumstances, and turn on much the same arguments and 
evidence. For that reason,  the decisions also, to some degree,  share  a narrative and 
structure. But my conclusions on each relate solely to that case. For ease of reference, this 
decision relates to the transaction  on a property Ill call 3F.
Barclays had already looked at the complaint, but had done so in tandem with all the other 
complaints. It had admitted mis-handling the applications and had offered compensation, but 
on an aggregate basis to settle all of the complaints. 
Our investigator has looked at each one individually, and in this specific case, he was 
persuaded Barclays was correct to use 3 March 2018 as the start date for the interest 
refund. But he recommended Barclays  pay Mrs and Mr T £300 compensation for their time 
and trouble.
Mrs and Mr T have  asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  but it seems  
thats not because they think the recommended redress is inadequate.  Rather,  theyre 
concerned that a recording (or alternatively a transcript) of a two-hour telephone 
conversation held with the bank in 2018 isnt available.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Ref: DRN11674992Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  On that point, its for me to decide  if the 
evidence I have is enough to allow me to reach a fair conclusion. 
Im aware Mrs and Mr T have concerns about  what has happened to the records of a phone  
call, and the potential implications for their personal data. Matters of data protection  
generally are for the Information  Commissioners  Office  to deal with; the exception would be 
if I considered the missing evidence  essential to my reaching a fair conclusion to the 
complaint before me. 
Im satisfied thats not the case here, because the underlying complaint isnt in dispute. Its 
common ground that Barclays wrongly  advised Mrs and Mr T to delay the rate switch;  its 
accepted as much. That being  the case, all Id normally be required to decide here is 
whether the proposed compensation is fair in all the circumstances (as they relate  to this 
specific complaint). However, as Mrs and Mr T havent disagreed  with that proposal,  theres  
nothing further  for me to decide as far as this complaint is concerned.  
There is, however, one observation that I feel I must make  concerning  the missing phone  
call records. In asking for the complaints to be reviewed, the consumers have  expressed  
dismay at what they see as Barclays changing its mind and giving a variety of seemingly 
different reasons (or excuses as they see it) for there being  no recording or transcripts  of the 
call. I assure Mrs and Mr T thats  not whats happened;  the reality  is altogether  more  
straightforward. 
Very simply, Barclays gave us one explanation  for not having  any records of the call; the 
closure of the department involved.  What then happened is that in his individual  
assessments of each  complaint, our investigator paraphrased that explanation in slightly  
different ways, to avoid  appearing  overly repetitive. Thats all; if the consumers think  
something more sinister has gone  on, thats their prerogative, but theyll  be misdirecting 
themselves if they do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only.  In full and final settlement, I 
direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mrs and Mr T £300 compensation. I make no other  order 
or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1167499