K820x#14complaint
Mrs O and Mr B complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly  handled their 
buildings insurance  claim.
background
In July 2018 Mr Bs vehicle rolled  into his front porch causing cracking to the external brick 
work and damage  to the alignment  of the front door of his property. 
Mrs O and Mr B claimed for the damage under their buildings insurance policy with UKI. UKI 
appointed a loss adjustor  Company A  to visit the property and assess  the damage.  
Company A concluded that the claim could be accepted, but given the nature of the damage,  
it couldnt scope  for the full extent of the works. So it recommended  that a surveyor assess  
and decide on the probable repairs.
Mrs O and Mr B say the surveyor told them the door needed to be realigned, and part of the 
damaged wall would need to be rebuilt.  To settle  the claim, UKI gave  Mrs O and Mr B the 
choice of getting a quote and using their own contractors, using UKIs contractors or 
receiving a cash settlement.
Mrs O and Mr B chose  to use UKIs contractors  Company B. But upon  its own review, 
Company B said part of the wall hadnt been damaged by the impact of the car, but instead 
was due to poor workmanship.  So it only carried out repairs to the areas affected by the 
impact as this is what UKI was responsible  for under the claim. 
Mrs O and Mr B said that if theyd known Company B werent  going  to carry out the works  
theyd expected; they wouldve either taken the cash settlement or wouldve withdrawn the 
claim  keeping their no claims discount intact.  So they asked UKI to still honour  these 
options. They also complained about delays and said Company B had left behind a mess at 
the property after carrying out repairs.
UKI upheld  the complaint in part. It said thered been a delay  in Mrs O and Mr Bs door being 
fixed and this was because of a breakdown in communication between Company A and its 
contractor. So it paid Mrs O and Mr B £100 compensation for any trouble and upset  this 
caused. 
But it concluded that it had handled  the claim fairly. UKI said its policy terms allow  it to 
decide how to put things  right. And it said it had photos that showed  their property had been 
cleared of all debris before the contractors left. 
Mrs O and Mr B didnt  agree with UKIs  response regarding the outcome of their claim. They 
didnt dispute  that the repair to their wall was a sufficient  resolution, but were unhappy they 
werent told about the change to the extent of the works before it was carried out. So they 
brought their complaint  to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt think UKI had acted unfairly  so he 
didnt ask it do anything  differently.  Mrs O and Mr B disagreed with this, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN10303142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  why.
When settling a claim, the terms and conditions applicable to Mrs O and Mr Bs policy allow 
UKI to repair  or rebuild the damaged part by using its own suppliers, using the policyholders 
suppliers or by making a cash payment. In line with the policy terms, Mrs O and Mr B were 
given all of these options, and they chose to use UKIs contractors.
The report  Ive seen  from Company A says that a clear scope of work wasnt  given by them  
due to the nature of the damage to the porch. So a surveyor was appointed. I havent seen a 
written copy of the surveyors report, but Mrs O and Mr B say the surveyor told them that part 
of the wall would need to be rebuilt, so they proceeded with the claim on that basis.
But when Company B arrived to carry out the repairs to the property  they stated that some  
of the damaged area was because of poor workmanship  which  isnt covered under the 
policy. So they only repaired  the damage  caused  by the impact of the vehicle  which is the 
insured event in this case. So on the face of it, the claim has been handled in line with the 
policy terms and conditions, which is what Id expect.
Mrs O and Mr B dont  disagree with the extent of the repair Company B carried out, but say 
that had Company B told them about this  before starting the work,  they wouldve 
withdrawn their claim at that point and carried out the works themselves. They believe this 
wouldve been a better option  as it wouldve kept their no claims discount intact. 
But I disagree. I say this because, the earliest  Mrs O and Mr B could reasonably  have been  
told about the changes,  was when Company B visited their property.  And by that point, its 
my understanding that the claim  had already progressed quite considerably and UKI 
wouldve incurred costs  as a result. 
While UKI can reasonably expect to incur some costs in the early stages of a claim  notably 
in appointing a loss adjustor to assess the reported damage, the claim had progressed  
further than this at the point Mrs O and Mr B are saying they wouldve withdrawn it. 
With that in mind, I think that even if Company B had made  Mrs O and Mr B aware  of the 
changes to the repairs  before they were carried out, and theyd subsequently requested  to 
withdraw their claim as a result, I dont  think it wouldve been reasonable, in this particular 
case, for UKI to refund the policy excess and reinstate the no claims  discount  to its pre-loss  
position, given  how far the claim had already progressed at that point. 
I understand Mrs O and Mr B have now decided they wouldve taken a different approach in 
hindsight. But these  points dont change my conclusion, as I dont  think it wouldve made a 
difference to the situation theyre now in with regards to their no claims discount and policy 
excess for the reasons Ive explained  above.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint and so I wont be asking UKI to do anything  
further. I know this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs O and Mr B, but I hope they 
understand why Ive decided this is a fair outcome for the reasons Ive explained.
Ref: DRN10303143my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1030314