K820x#14Complaint
Miss A complains  about the way Tesco  Personal Finance PLC handled her requests for 
recovery of money shed paid using her credit card. Mr S is assisting Miss A in bringing her 
complaint.
Background
Return flights were purchased from an airline  (P) using a Tesco credit card. The original 
return flight was cancelled, with an alternative flight provided two days  later.  At departures  
Miss A and Mr S were told an extra £150 in tax was due, which  they paid in cash. The family 
were also unable to sit together on the replacement  flight.
Miss A and Mr S attempted to resolve their complaint about the cancelled flight, additional 
tax and seating arrangements with P, but were  unsuccessful so turned to Tesco  for help. But 
Tesco told Miss A that it wouldnt be raising a chargeback. She and Mr S complained to 
Tesco about  this decision and failings in the customer service levels and the advice they 
were given.
In response, Tesco acknowledged that its customer service was not good  enough  and paid 
£150 in compensation. In respect  of the chargeback, the bank said it was unable to proceed 
under the card scheme  rules. Miss A did not agree with the chargeback  decision or level of 
compensation, so the complaint was brought to us for investigation.
The investigators view was that a chargeback would have not been successful as he didnt  
think the circumstances met any of those required by the scheme. He was also of the view 
that the £150 paid in recognition of the poor customer service was fair in the circumstances.
The investigator also looked at whether Miss A could claim against Tesco under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. This is a different process whereby a card holder can, in 
limited circumstances,  make a claim against the credit provider where there has been either 
a misrepresentation  or a breach of contract by the supplier of the goods or service. The 
investigators view was that there had been  no misrepresentation or breach of contract by P, 
as the problems Miss A had experienced at the airport and with the flights  were covered in 
the terms and conditions set down by P.
Miss A didnt agree with the investigator, so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered whether Tesco should  have accepted liability  under  section  75 or raised a 
chargeback on behalf  of Miss A. The investigators  view was that it shouldnt have, and Im 
afraid I agree, for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain.
Ive explained  above about  how liability  might  arise under section 75. Where a consumer is 
in dispute with a provider  of goods or services they paid for using a card,  they can also ask 
their card provider for assistance in recovering money via chargeback.  Chargeback rules are 
set by the card scheme (in this case Mastercard) rather  than the banks involved, and a bank 
Ref: DRN15835392doesnt have to raise  a chargeback if it looks clear  to them that the claim has little chance of 
being successful.
Tesco has said that it couldnt raise a chargeback as shed paid the additional taxes  in cash.  
For this reason, it declined to submit the claim. I dont think Tesco  was right to take this 
position. Miss As grounds for requesting  a chargeback arise  from her original card payment 
and her understanding that this covered all applicable fees and taxes. Her payment of the 
taxes merely represents the point at which she would have become aware she had grounds 
for querying  this.
Under the card scheme rules, there are potentially two grounds for raising a chargeback on 
the basis described by Miss A. Those grounds would be where goods or services  are not as 
described, or where they are not provided. Clearly in this case P did provide  the flights, albeit 
a couple of days later. So even if Tesco had attempted  to chargeback  the payments on that 
basis, I cant see how that would  have been successful.
Miss A claimed there was a misrepresentation of the service  provided (the flight was on a 
different day; the seats were different and not all together as booked  and there  was 
additional tax to pay at the airport). In some  respects, that line of argument  is along similar 
lines to the chargeback reason of goods or services not as described. So, I think there was a 
basis for raising a chargeback. However, that doesnt mean such a claim would have  been  
successful either.
I looked at Ps terms and conditions regarding their flights. In my opinion they deal with the 
circumstances described above, and in summary state:
any additional local taxes due are the responsibility of the customer
neither specific seats, nor sitting together is guaranteed
if the booked  flight is cancelled, an alternative is provided if the customer  wants it, or 
otherwise a full refund  given
With this in mind, its difficult to see how a claim either under section 75 provisions regarding  
misrepresentation or breach of contract, or under  the chargeback  process that the flights 
were not as described could be successful. I accept the flights didnt take place quite  as 
Miss A and Mr S had anticipated.  But I cant see that was down to the way P had described  
or intended them. So, while I think Tesco could have done  better  in identifying Miss As 
claim, I dont  consider  that she suffered any material disadvantage  from this. 
There is an additional point of note. I have considered  the time limit which is set down by 
Mastercard during  which a dispute must be raised.  Under the rules, Miss A had 120 days  to 
raise a dispute with her card provider, from the date of purchase, or the date the service was 
provided, whichever occurred last. The flight in question occurred on 3 August 2018. The 
very earliest  time I consider a complaint was raised  was when Mr S called Tesco  on 
4 December 2018. This is more than 120 days from when the service was provided, and so 
outside this limit. So, even if the decision was that Miss A had grounds to raise  a 
chargeback, Tesco wouldnt have been  able to under the time-limit rule.
Finally, I must consider the customer service  provided. It is not in dispute  that this fell below 
what Tesco  consider acceptable, and they have given a total of £150 in recognition of this. I 
have considered the timeline and details  of the various calls made  by Miss A and Mr S and 
the probable level of distress and inconvenience these have caused. I have also considered 
the fact that Tesco dealt  with the subsequent complaints promptly.
Ref: DRN15835393For these reasons I believe the £150 already given is reasonable. As a result, I do not 
believe Tesco need to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not require Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC 
to take any further  action  to resolve  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1583539