K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1998. Mrs C says Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI. She says 
she wasnt aware she had a choice.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the mis-sale shouldnt  be 
upheld. But RBS has already offered to pay back some money  to Mrs C for the commission 
it received from the sale. 
Mrs C still thinks  the PPI was mis-sold  in the first place  so the complaint has therefore  been 
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint about the mis-sale.
I certainly dont doubt Mrs C honestly  and genuinely  now feels  that she was mis-sold PPI, 
which she applied for by post.  
However, I was sent her credit card application  form and Im afraid I cant  agree  she would 
have been unable to see the PPI was optional. Although the bank was obviously promoting 
this type of cover at the time, Mrs C was presented with a choice during the application 
process in the form of an option box to tick. If she wanted the PPI with her new credit card, 
the format was that she had to insert a tick to get it added. And if she didnt  want it, she 
could have just as easily left the PPI option box empty.
Mrs C ticked the box and signed the application form.
I note that the PPI was being  listed regularly on her monthly credit  card statements over an 
extended time period. So because of these  things, I think  Mrs C asked for the PPI and she 
would have been able to clearly see a policy had been set up on her account, which she 
went on to keep for many years.
Because it was a postal sale, I think Mrs C most  likely filled out the application in her own 
time and with any influence or direction from RBS. So it wasnt  an advised sale and it was 
for her to decide  for herself what she wanted  to do. RBSs responsibility was limited  to 
providing clear enough information so that she could make an informed decision.
Looking at the form, its possible RBS could have  explained  the policy in more  detail  than it 
did, but Im afraid this doesnt make  any difference to my decision.
This is because I think Mrs C could see there  was a choice. She was also eligible for the 
cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  
Mrs C only had some sick pay with her job already but this doesnt  mean  the policy wasnt of 
Ref: DRN12265102use. I reiterate that the choice was for her to make and the PPI wouldve covered her in the 
event of her being  unable  to work  or losing her job. In the event of a successful claim the PPI 
wouldve paid off 10% of her outstanding  credit  card balance for up to a year. This wouldve 
been in addition to any other means  she had in place at the time. I also considered  the cost 
of the cover  and I think it would have been affordable  for her.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs C but I dont  think this policy was mis-sold. Which  means  RBS 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to her.
But it has agreed to pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because when the policy  
was sold, RBS expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium)  so it should  have told Mrs C about that. Because RBS didnt tell her, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, RBS offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what RBS  needs to do
RBS has to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. It should  also pay back to Mrs C any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs C can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Royal Bank of Scotland plc doesnt  have  to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Royal Bank of Scotland  plc has offered to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1226510