K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with a credit card 
in 1996. Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) is responsible for the sale.
background
Mrs W bought the PPI whilst applying for a new credit card by post.  Our adjudicator  who 
looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold  shouldnt be upheld. 
However Mrs W has already been offered some  money back  for part of the commission  BoS 
received from selling her the PPI. 
She still thinks she was mis-sold  the PPI in the first place and disagrees with the adjudicator 
so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Mrs W says the PPI was added without her agreement. I dont doubt she honestly believes 
this now, but I was sent a copy of her credit  card application and this shows she was given 
a choice to either have  or not have PPI with her new card.  Mrs W selected  the box to add 
the PPI and she signed the form. 
Mrs W has implied the box was ticked by someone else but Im afraid I dont consider that 
very likely. This is because Ive also been sent a number of her credit card statements and 
these show that she was being  regularly  charged  for Credit Care Insurance  on them. So I 
think this further adds weight to her asking for the PPI on the form at the application  stage. 
And I think if she hadnt then she would have  wanted to know  what the charges were for.
I therefore think Mrs W agreed to the policy and has since  forgotten  she did this after the 23 
years that have since passed.  I think BoS properly obtained her consent.
As this was a postal  form Mrs W would have  probably made her way through  the application 
herself and without any intervention from BoS.  So it wasnt an advised sale and BoS only 
had to make  sure Mrs W had enough information to make an informed decision about what  
she herself wanted to do.
I can see ways in which the form could have been set out in a better way, but overall  I think 
Mrs W probably had enough information  and I havent seen  anything  that makes me think  
Mrs W would  have acted any differently. 
The application was part of a leaflet-based form and the evidence shows  she wanted the 
PPI. I also think  she was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main  exclusions 
we tend to see in these types of policy. 
Ref: DRN13586962Looking at the work she did, I agree  the sickness protection she had with her job would have 
been quite good. But this doesnt mean  the policy wasnt of use. For example, the PPI policy 
would have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed 
needed to claim for sickness or losing her job. This wouldve been in addition to any other 
means she had at that time. I also see that the cost was 78p per £100 outstanding on the 
card, which I think would have been  affordable for Mrs W.
Taking account of all these things,  I think this policy was of use to her and as a non-advised 
postal application,  the decision about  having PPI was for her to make.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs W but this means Im not upholding her mis-sale complaint.
BoS has already  offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because when 
the policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told Mrs W about that. Because  it didnt, that was 
unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has already offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to pay her for the commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1358696