K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale  Bank  Plc misled him when he took out new mortgage  
products in 2015 by changing a major  term of his mortgage without alerting him to it. Mr C 
would like to be compensated for the increased early repayment  charge (ERC)  he will have 
to pay.  
background
Mr C took out two buy to let mortgages with Clydesdale in 2013 on the advice of a broker. 
One was a repayment mortgage and the other  interest-only. In order to get a discounted rate 
of interest Mr C took out a mortgage product on both mortgages.  These  mortgage products  
allowed Mr C to fix the interest rate for 2 years until 30 November 2015. This was called a 
concessionary period.  
During the concessionary period Mr C would  have to pay an early repayment  charge (ERC) 
if he redeemed or partly  redeemed the mortgage. But according  to section 11 of both 
mortgage offer documents  during this period  Mr C could repay a maximum 10% of your 
Home Loan Amount outstanding in any year in the Concessionary Rate Period without 
payment of an Early  Repayment Charge.
In July 2015 Mr C got a letter from the lender to say that this concessionary period was 
coming to an end and inviting  him to go online and select new mortgage  products which  he 
did. Mr C didnt get the advice of a broker and Clydesdale sold the products to Mr C on a 
non-advised basis meaning  that Mr C made  his own choice about whether to accept the 
product offer.  
The new products had a discounted interest rate during the concessionary period, which  was 
now a five year period.  Again,  if Mr C redeemed or partly redeemed  his mortgage during that 
period he would have to pay an ERC. But these products  didnt also offer the facility  to repay 
10% of the home loan amount that was contained  in the 2013  offer documents.
Mr C believed that when  he took out his new mortgage product in 2015  that there were to be 
no major  changes to his mortgage and that the 10% facility  remained. Mr C had discussions 
with Clydesdale  staff and says that he has consistently been  told that he could make  lump 
sum payments and has been provided with the instructions  and figures on how to do so.
Clydesdale wrote to Mr C on 23 August 2018 saying that the member  of staff who spoke to 
Mr C in July about  the mechanics of the 10% lump  sum reductions hadnt checked  the offer 
documents and had proceeded on the wrong assumption that the products had such  a 
facility. Clydesdale  said that Mr C in 2015  had chosen a mortgage product which didnt have  
the 10% facility  so it wasnt  bound to provide it. For the incorrect information provided by a 
member of staff, it offered compensation of £100.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as she didnt feel 
that Clydesdale had done anything wrong.  Mr C disagreed saying in summary that when he 
took out the new product  in 2015  that he didnt expect underhand  changes to be made to the 
mortgage terms later.
Ref: DRN12898632my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C took out two fixed rate mortgage products in 2013  and when those expired he took out 
two other  products in 2015. The disadvantage  of taking out fixed rate products is that they 
will usually have an ERC attached. A borrower is sometimes  able to mitigate  the effect of an 
ERC by making lump sum repayments so reducing  the outstanding  balance of the mortgage. 
For the 2013 mortgage products Mr C could make  such payments up to 10% of the balance  
but the terms of the 2015 products were  different  and he didnt have  the facility.
The problem I have  in upholding  Mr Cs complaint is that on a reading of the offers it is clear 
that the 10% facility isnt available in the 2015  product offers.  I note that Mr C in his letter to 
us says that when  he took out the mortgage  a key feature was the ability to make lump  sum 
payments of up to 10%. 
But that facility  only applied to the 2013 mortgage product and came  to an end when those 
products expired in 2015. When  Mr C took out his 2015 mortgage products the terms that 
applied to them were  those contained  in the offer documents of those products.
Mr C says that he wasnt remortgaging  in 2015 and so the terms of his mortgage shouldnt 
have changed  and thats correct. Mr C refers  me to a letter  dated 24 July 2015  inviting  him to 
contact Clydesdale  to enquire about a new mortgage product which would be available if he 
wasnt making any major changes to his mortgage.  
The terms of Mr Cs mortgage didnt  change.  His mortgage products expired and he took out 
different mortgage  products. These products had different rates of interest than previously, 
were to run for 5 years  rather than 2 years, had different ERCs and didnt offer the 10% 
facility. So, the mortgage products had different terms than the previous ones. 
This was all contained in the illustration and offer documents  with included a section  11 
highlighted What  happens if you want to make  overpayments? So, I cant agree that 
Clydesdale was somehow underhand in the way it presented the information to Mr C. In my 
view that information  was clearly presented along  with the other information related to the 
mortgage products  which Mr C could read before he committed himself.  So, I cant  fairly 
uphold this complaint.
Mr C had a discussion with a Clydesdale adviser who assumed the 10% facility was 
available and doesnt appear to have checked  the offer documents. That was unfortunate 
and annoying  for Mr C. Clydesdale has apologised and offered £100  for that service  error 
which seems appropriate.  I see that Mr C calls this derisory  but its not meant to compensate 
him for all of his complaint  and in my view its fair. Should Mr C wish to accept this I suggest  
he contacts Clydesdale  to have the cheque  re-issued.
Mr C continues to have  a facility to make  regular overpayments which he hasnt used. Mr C 
has asked me to comment on whether he should use that facility or wait until the 
concessionary period  ends and then to pay off part of the home loan. But my role is to 
adjudicate on disputes and not to provide financial advice.  Should Mr C  wish  to utilise  the 
overpayment  facility  he should make contact with Clydesdale  about doing so.      
Ref: DRN12898633my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1289863