K820x#14complaint
Mr F complained about Moorland  Mayfair  Wealth Management Limited (Moorland Mayfair) 
as he believed that firm should have advised him to transfer his funds out of his SIPP as it 
was evident the funds  werent performing as they should.
background 
Mr F was initially advised to transfer  his existing pension plans into a self invested personal 
pension (SIPP) by a previous advisory company in April 2015. That SIPP  provider was also 
a discretionary fund manager (DFM). 
Mr F was then contacted  by Moorland Mayfair around October 2016 offering a review of his 
pension arrangements. A letter  of authority was obtained by Moorland Mayfair on 10 October 
2016 and information from Mr Fs SIPP provider was requested.  
The SIPP provider responded on 26 October  2016. The information  provided showed Mr Fs 
SIPP was valued  at around £253,000. That was considerably  lower  than his initial 
investment of round £280,000.
The SIPP provider also confirmed Mr F was invested in the following funds:
Blueprint Industrial  Engineering  plc
Carduus Housing  plc
Eastbridge Investments plc
Optima Worldwide Group Ltd
I think they are all higher  risk, unregulated investment schemes. 
On receiving the information Moorland  Mayfair  raised a complaint on Mr Fs behalf to the 
SIPP provider on 23 November 2016.
The SIPP provider didnt reply.  The complaint was forwarded  to this service.  One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened. He issued  his view on 25 April 2017.  He 
upheld the complaint. He said that the SIPP provider had been instructed to place 
investments on Mr Fs behalf  on the basis that Mr F was willing  to accept a lowest medium  
investment risk - a score  of 4 out of 10. But the SIPP  provider hadnt invested in line with the 
instructions given or in investments that were  appropriate for someone with a lowest 
medium  risk profile.  Limited thought had been  given to diversification, with significant sums  
invested in funds with higher risk ratings.
But our file was later closed. The SIPP provider had ceased to trade. That meant  we werent  
able to progress  the complaint against it any further.  With Mr Fs consent we forwarded his 
complaint to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
In the meantime Mr F had parted company with Moorland Mayfair. He then made  this 
complaint about  Moorland  Mayfair. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F had confirmed the initial  advice to invest  
with the SIPP provider had been  given by another advisory firm. Moorland Mayfair couldnt 
be held accountable for the funds being  initially invested with that SIPP  provider/DFM.  
Ref: DRN18882882The adjudicator considered if Moorland Mayfair  could have taken any action to move Mr Fs 
SIPP funds  away once  Mr F had become Moorland  Mayfairs  client. Mr F had been  a client 
from October 2016, until around  the middle of 2017. The adjudicator thought Moorland 
Mayfair could potentially  be liable for any losses incurred with Mr Fs SIPP during that time.  
Moorland Mayfair had raised a complaint against the SIPP operator about  the performance  
of Mr Fs SIPP. So it appeared evident Moorland Mayfair  had identified  Mr Fs SIPP wasnt  
performing as it should. This in turn confirmed  Moorland Mayfair was aware  Mr Fs SIPP  (or 
the funds at least) wasnt suitable for his needs. As a result  Moorland Mayfair should have 
recommended Mr F take any necessary corrective action required. Moorland Mayfair was 
unable to provide  any evidence to show it had done that. 
But the underlying investments held within Mr Fs SIPP  were  illiquid.  As a result,  even if 
Moorland Mayfair did recommend switching out of the investments, Mr F would have been 
unable to do so. The investments were  illiquid  prior to Mr F becoming a client and Moorland 
Mayfair had been unable to take any corrective action on Mr Fs SIPP.  In the circumstances  
the adjudicator  didnt  think the complaint again Moorland Mayfair could be upheld. 
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicator. He said, although the advice was originally provided  by 
another business, it was the same  adviser. So we should be investigating  the adviser and 
not Moorland Mayfair  as a company. 
The adjudicator confirmed to Mr F that, although  the adviser might be the same  person, this 
service can only review  the actions taken  by the business. He also confirmed to Mr F that 
the previous business no longer existed and as a result  the adjudicator was unable  to 
consider what it had done.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the view 
reached by the adjudicator and the reasons he gave. I dont have much to add.
I have every sympathy for Mr F. He clearly  feels hes been  very badly advised. Hes lost 
money and, given that compensation payable by FSCS is limited, he wont recover  all his 
losses. 
Id agree with the adjudicator that its clear  Moorland  Mayfair  recognised  that there might be 
a problem with Mr Fs SIPP and, in particular, the investments that had been made. 
In ordinary circumstances, where a business  has reviewed a new clients pension  
arrangements and discovered  a problem, Id expect  the new business  to recommend taking 
steps to address the issues and mitigate any losses  such  as selling any unsuitable 
investments and reinvesting the proceeds in more suitable funds commensurate with the 
investors attitude to risk.
But here, and as the adjudicator has explained, that wasnt possible.  The investments were  
illiquid and disinvestment  wasnt  a possibility. So, even if Moorland Mayfair should  have 
recommended that Mr F switch investments but didnt, Mr F wouldnt have been able to have 
done that anyway. So no loss has flowed  from any failure on Moorland  Mayfairs part. 
Ref: DRN18882883I can understand Mr Fs point about it being  the same adviser throughout. He worked for the 
business that initially advised Mr F to set up the SIPP. The adviser then moved to Moorland 
Mayfair and contacted Mr F who then became  that firms client,  albeit for less than a year.
I note what Mr F has said about the circumstances  in which Moorland Mayfair was set up 
and its links with the previous  advisory firm. So I can understand why Mr F considers the 
adviser should be held accountable for recommending the SIPP. 
But Moorland Mayfair and Mr Fs previous advisory firm are different legal entities. Moorland 
Mayfair will only be responsible for what the adviser did or didnt do when he was working for 
Moorland Mayfair. And, as Mr Fs contract  is with the business rather than the individual 
adviser, its the business that will be legally responsible if things go wrong.  So any complaint  
will need  to be directed at the relevant business  and not the individual. 
Unfortunately, and as the adjudicator has pointed out, the business the adviser  was working  
for when  he advised  Mr F to set up the SIPP  is no longer  authorised. That means  were  
unable to consider  a complaint against  it. Or rather a further complaint against that business, 
Mr F having made a previous complaint about that firm but which didnt extend to the advice 
to set up the SIPP. It may be open  to Mr F to make another  claim to FSCS.  .
I can see that Mr F feels very strongly  about the matter. I think  Mr F, after consultations with 
his solicitor, may have  reported the adviser  to the regulator. Mr F may also have been in 
contact with the police about what happened. But Im sorry that for the reasons Ive 
explained Im unable to uphold his complaint  against  Moorland Mayfair. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1888288