K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank  has registered a 
default on his credit file for the wrong  date.
background
Mr D says he signed a Trust Deed on 21 May 2018  which became protected on 13 July 
2018. He says Tesco has agreed  to amend the date of the default  to 13 July 2018 but he 
says it should  be the date he signed  the Deed- on 21 May 2018. Mr D says other creditors  
have agreed to record the default in May 2018 and Tescos actions are causing  him stress.
Tesco says its not made  a mistake and says the Trust Deed becomes active  on the date it 
becomes protected and so the default is recorded on the same  date.
Mr D brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  think Tesco had made a mistake. 
She thought  there was a five week period between a Trust Deed being  signed and becoming 
protected. And in that time it was open to creditors to object and so the Trust Deed didnt 
become legally binding until it was protected.
Mr D says that the document became legally binding on the date he signed it in May 2018. 
And so the investigator is wrong.  He would like the default date backdated to May 2018  and 
has asked that the investigators decision is reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for largely the same  reasons. I realise Mr D will be 
disappointed by my decision.
As Mr D knows a Trust Deed is a type of personal  insolvency available  in Scotland. It is a 
formal agreement for certain  types  of debts  to be repaid. Im satisfied that the Trust Deed 
becomes legally binding on the date it becomes protected and that is the 13 July 2018  in this 
case. I say that as even though Mr D signed  the Trust  Deed in May 2018, there was a period  
of time in which creditors could have objected  to it and so it may not have become protected.  
Ive also looked  at the guidance given by the Accountant in Bankruptcy and the Scottish 
Government. And having done so Im satisfied that a lender should register  a default on the 
date the Trust becomes  protected.
So Im satisfied that Tesco hasnt made a mistake here by recording the default on 13 July 
2018. I appreciate  Mr D says other creditors have agreed to record a default  using the date 
in May 2018.  I cant fairly comment on that. But overall Im satisfied Tesco hasnt made  a 
mistake or acted unfairly  and so I cant fairly order it to change the date of the default.
Ref: DRN11906622my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1190662