K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say The Co-operative  Bank Plc (trading at the time as Britannia) mis-sold 
them payment protection insurance  (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy in 1996  at the same time as they applied for a mortgage.
It protected  them against unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for the policy. They 
were introduced to the PPI (and their mortgage) by a third party  at a meeting in their home.  
The Co-operative Bank has taken responsibility  for the sale, and this complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  so the complaint was
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely to have  happened in the light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The Co-operative Bank had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that the PPI was optional and 
they had to agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs M say the third party never discussed the PPI. 
He completed the forms and they just signed on the dotted line. They werent given any 
options. I cant know what was discussed  in the meeting, so I have considered  Mr and 
Mrs Ms comments carefully  and looked at the available  paperwork from the sale. 
The PPI section of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  application asked if they required a PPI 
application. They marked Yes in answer  to this question, and the option  to say No was set 
out with equal prominence. The bank  no longer has a copy of the PPI application  it says they 
would then have  completed. But thats  not unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. 
Mr and Mrs M only took out unemployment  cover  not the much more  common package  of 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. This suggests to me there was some 
discussion and they understood  they had choices.
So overall, I think The Co-operative Bank  made it clear the PPI was optional  and its most 
likely Mr and Mrs M agreed  to take it out. I know Mr and Mrs M said they just signed on the 
dotted line, but I think its reasonable to expect  they would have read any paperwork before 
signing.
I dont think The Co-operative Bank recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. So it didnt  
have to make sure it was right for them. It was up to them to decide  if it was suitable given 
their circumstances.
Ref: DRN14956372It did, however, have to give Mr and Mrs M enough information about  the PPI so they could 
decide for themselves whether they wanted  to buy it. And its possible some  of the 
information The Co-operative  Bank  gave Mr and Mrs M wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. But I dont  think they wouldve been put off taking out the policy  if they had received 
better information.
I say this because:
Mr and Mrs M were  eligible for the policy given  their circumstances at the time and 
the policys terms and conditions. And they werent affected  by any of the conditions 
limiting the policys  main benefits. As they couldve benefitted from the full extent of 
the cover, I think its unlikely they needed better  information about the exclusions and 
limitations.
Mr and Mrs M were  entitled to redundancy pay, but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to their work benefits. It would have allowed them to protect any lump  sum 
redundancy payment(s) giving  them increased  financial  stability  at an already difficult 
time. So overall I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs M if they lost 
their job(s).
I dont know if Mr and Mrs M were  given clear enough information on the cost at the 
time of the sale. However, the PPI was competitively priced and apparently  
affordable. So I dont think better cost information at the time of the sale wouldve
changed their decision.
It follows, I dont think  Mr and Mrs M have  lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to
accept or reject my decision  before  17 November  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1495637