K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  gave him a loan that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr S was given one loan by Mr Lender in January 2018. He borrowed £300 and agreed  to 
repay the loan in six monthly instalments. At the time he made his complaint there was still 
a balance outstanding on the loan.
Mr Ss complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She thought that the checks  
Mr Lender had done before agreeing the loan had been sufficient. And since  those  checks 
suggested that the loan was affordable for Mr S she didnt think  the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loan was offered.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether Mr S 
could afford  to pay back the loan before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr S was borrowing, and his lending history, but 
there was no set list of checks Mr Lender  had to do.
Mr Lender has told us about the checks  it did before lending  to Mr S. It asked him for details, 
and evidence, of his normal income.  And it asked him about his normal  monthly expenditure. 
Mr Lender also checked  Mr Ss credit file before it agreed the loan.
Mr Lender has sent us the results of the credit check that it did before lending to Mr S. It 
doesnt show any adverse information  that I think should have caused additional concerns to 
the lender. I appreciate that Mr S says he had defaulted on a credit  card in 2016.  But that 
default didnt show on Mr Lenders check. Generally, the information a consumer might see, 
when they request a copy of their credit  file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. 
A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data might  be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might  not be up to date.  
Mr Ss loan was repayable over a six month period. So the amounts  that Mr S needed to 
repay each  time were smaller  than if hed taken a normal payday loan. But of course he was 
committing to making  those repayments  over a far longer period.
Ref: DRN16503352The loan that Mr S took was relatively modest  compared to the income he showed to 
Mr Lender. And the repayments he needed to make appeared to be easily  affordable based 
on what hed said about his expenditure. This was the first (and only) loan that Mr S took 
from Mr Lender. So I think it was reasonable for the lender  to base its affordability 
assessment on the information provided by Mr S. I dont think  Mr Lender did anything wrong 
in giving this loan to Mr S.
Mr S says that his financial  situation  was worse than he told Mr Lender.  He says his 
expenditure was much  higher, and that he was borrowing  from a number of other short  term 
lenders. But that wasnt  something he told Mr Lender at the time. And I dont think  it was 
something that Mr Lender should have discovered from what  I consider to be proportionate 
checks. It was entitled here to use the information provided by Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
PDL Finance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1650335