K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc incorrectly advised  her that if she took 
a new mortgage  with it, shed avoid the early repayment charge (ERC) on her sale. Relying 
on that she bought a more expensive house. To resolve her complaint she wants  NatWest to 
refund the ERC. 
background
The NatWest mortgage product on Miss Bs house contained an ERC.  She sold the house  
and had to pay NatWest an ERC. She rang NatWest to question the redemption statement 
and was told that if she took a new NatWest mortgage within four months the ERC would be 
refunded. So she worked  out her finances  and exchanged contracts  to buy a new house with 
a new NatWest mortgage.
The day before she was due to complete on the purchase she rang NatWest to arrange for 
the ERC  to be refunded as she needed this money to complete.  NatWest said she wasnt 
entitled to a refund as her new application wasnt a porting application. NatWest hadnt told 
her this so she hadnt told her broker it had to be a porting  application, and shed paid off the 
old mortgage so there  was nothing to port.
Miss B had to borrow money from her parents to complete on the new house. She would 
never have  gone  through with it if shed been given  the correct  information by NatWest.
On her complaint  to NatWest it acknowledged it had given incorrect information, apologised 
to her and paid £100 compensation  into her bank account. But it didnt agree to refund the 
ERC. It said the old mortgage didnt allow porting. Had Miss B applied  for porting, NatWest 
would have known  that, but she didnt.
Miss B brought her complaint to this service. She said NatWest had completely missed  the 
point. If it had given  her correct information  at the outset  she wouldnt have gone through  
with the new purchase.  Shed have bought a cheaper property.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He said the mortgage offer on 
the earlier mortgage said it wasnt portable. So even if Miss B had been  given  the correct  
information, she wouldnt have been able to avoid the ERC.
Whilst the adjudicator  agreed that NatWest  had given incorrect information regarding  porting 
the mortgage, Miss B had already sold her property  and had an offer accepted  on her 
onward purchase  prior to this. Therefore  he thought on the balance of probabilities the 
incorrect information hadnt had any impact on the decision she would have made.
Miss B wasnt happy and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the face of it I think the question for me is, what would  Miss B have  done  if shed been 
told that she couldnt port the interest product and would have to pay an ERC having  sold 
the property. She says she wouldnt have bought  the new property because she needed that 
Ref: DRN18696422money to do so. She told the adviser  in the phone call that her offer had been accepted that 
day, so it appears  she wasnt  at that point contractually committed  to the purchase and could 
have backed out.
The adjudicator took the view that Miss B would have gone  ahead even if shed been 
correctly told she couldnt port. But Im not sure about that, because she didnt  have the 
money to do so. She had to borrow it from her parents.
NatWest will say it wouldnt be fair for Miss B to have both the benefit  of owning a house  
which is more valuable,  and a refund on top. But theres a downside, namely the cost of the 
extra borrowing. And I think thats  the loss which shes suffered.
So I asked  Miss B for details of this. She said the amount borrowed from her parents to 
enable her to proceed with the purchase  was the shortfall  of £3,500.  She repays her parents 
at £300 per month and more when she gets a bonus. But she doesnt have to pay any 
interest.
In those circumstances I dont think Miss B has suffered a loss. The shortfall has been 
covered by an interest-free loan which will be cleared in a year,  and although she has to 
repay the capital,  shes got a more valuable house in return. If she really wanted, she could 
sell it, repay  her parents  and buy a less expensive house.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1869642