K820x#14complaint
Ms O complains that Ascent Performance  Group Limited acted unfairly  and unreasonably by 
delaying the supply of a redemption statement  for her secured loan. She wants  matters put 
right.
background
Ms O bought  a property  with the help of a ten year secured loan in return for 25% of the 
market value of the property  from the builder. The loan was due to end in August 2018.  
Ms O had agreed to sell her property for £190,000, and requested  a redemption statement 
from Ascent (who was administering the loan).  Ms O said that it wasnt received within  five 
working days as promised and the sale fell through. Ms O complained that Ascent  then 
threatened to take her to court, causing  stress and worsening her health condition,  and only 
later accepted that it was at fault. Ms O became liable for daily interest  (as the interest free 
period ended in August).
Ms O was paying another joint mortgage  for her new home  at the same  time as paying  the 
mortgage, and said this caused  her to sell the property for £180,000 to get a quick sale in 
January 2019.  Ms O said Ascent required her to pay 25% of £184,950 and interest,  which 
she felt was unfair and didnt reflect  the propertys true market  value. She also didnt think  
she should have  to pay interest as she blamed the delayed redemption  statement for the 
loss of the first sale. Ms O also noted  that shed improved her property and felt penalised.
Ms O complained to Ascent. It said the agreed value of the property was £184,950  and Ms O 
was told that this would be the market value for a six month period from October  2018.  
Ascent accepted  that the redemption statement  required  in August 2018 was not delivered 
within five working days, despite knowing the urgency.  It pointed  out that it gave Ms O an 
extra two months to deal with the matter, rather than proceeding with court action.
Ms O complained to us. Ascent said that the value  of the property in August 2018 was 
£189,950 so if the sale had gone ahead, more wouldve been due to its client.  It also said 
that value in October 2018 had been disputed, which was why it set out to Ms O the value 
that would  be applied if she went ahead after its client considered the valuation  evidence 
available. Ascent didnt accept that the 11 working  days it took in providing the redemption  
statement caused the loss of the sale in August and said it wasnt responsible for the 
decisions of its client.
The investigators view was that Ascent  was at fault and the delay in providing the 
redemption statement stopped contracts from being exchanged and the buyers pulled out 
before it was received due to lack of progress. She noted that Ms Os solicitors thought they 
couldve completed by 3 September 2018  if the redemption statement had been received in 
a timely  way. But the investigator agreed  that it was Ascents  client  who decided  the 
valuation figure  and the evidence supported  a valuation  of £184,950 in October.
The investigator said that the fair and reasonable resolution was for Ascent  to pay £10,000 
for the loss of the August sale, refund the interest  charged between 3 September 2018 to 
31 January 2019  (date of actual sale),  pay any extra solicitor or estate agent fees charged to 
Ms O due to the lost sale, and pay £750  compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
all the failings shed  identified by Ascent, including the stress caused by potential  litigation 
after the lost sale.  She also said that Ascent  should  pay 8% interest on the financial losses.
Ref: DRN14498932Ascent disagreed.  It said it believed  completion  could have taken place on 4 September  from 
what Ms Os solicitor  had said and it had to prioritise due to workload; Ascent said it had 
provided the redemption statement in time to complete  in September (though  it 
acknowledged it wasnt sent within the five working days  expected) and thought  that the 
buyers expectation hadnt been managed by the solicitors involved. It noted  it was possible 
to exchange and complete on the same  day. 
Ascent also pointed out that it was required to charge interest under the terms and 
conditions of the loan and wasnt satisfied  that its actions meant the interest  should  be 
refunded. It also noted that it was Ms Os choice to sell for a lower  price than the value of the 
property and it had paused court action to let her sell. Ms Os solicitor commented that 
exchange and completion on the same day wasnt usual procedure  and time was needed 
between the two stages to get the monies in place  (she made  general observations about 
the average time needed between exchange and completion); in addition, she noted that 
people liked certainty and didnt want to book  removals  until exchange had occurred.
Ascent said that the redemption statement was sent two working  days  before the proposed  
completion date and said Ms Os solicitors  didnt properly inform  it that completion would be 
threatened by the delay. Ascent  pointed out that it wasnt told the buyers solicitors needed 
five to seven working days to access their mortgage  monies after exchange.  It didnt accept 
that its actions caused  the sale to fall through. The investigator didnt change her view.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ascent accepts that it sent the redemption  statement in August 2018 outside of the usual 
five working days timeframe. I understand why there were  delays,  but note the redemption 
statement wouldve been  quite easy to produce  (see later) and Ms Os solicitors did chase it 
when it wasnt received as promised. Ms Os solicitors asked for the redemption statement in 
good time; theres no evidence that the solicitors said exchange could happen at the same 
time as completion. Ascent earlier acknowledged  that it knew the matter  was urgent. 
But the reason  why the sale was lost was because contracts werent exchanged by the time 
the buyers required. Its relevant to note that when the property was ultimately  sold, Ms Os 
solicitors exchanged contracts before  the new redemption statement was received. And 
while Ms Os solicitors  have said exchange and completion dont generally happen on the 
same day, the provision  of the redemption  statement in August 2018 still allowed completion 
to happen as planned on a different  day to exchange. A gap of five to seven days  between  
exchange and completion isnt essential;  many transactions  complete in a shorter time.
I think the solicitors couldve worked  out the likely sum required by Ascents  client as the 
calculations were based on a fixed percentage of a deemed market  valuation (and the loan 
was interest free at the time).  The valuation  had been agreed between the parties on 1 
August and the solicitors seem to have proceeded without the redemption  statement in 
January 2019.
Did Ascents unfair and unreasonable failure  to provide a redemption  statement promptly  
cause the August sale to be lost? Having considered the evidence, particularly that from 
Ms Os solicitors,  Im satisfied that it didnt. The sale was lost because  Ms O didnt exchange 
contracts, but her solicitors were  willing to allow her to do that without receipt of a 
redemption statement for the later sale.
Ref: DRN14498933From the evidence available to me, it was Ms Os choice to sell her property for less than the 
agreed valuation  of £184,950, which she knew from Ascents letters would be the basis  of 
the calculation  of the amount owed  to Ascents  client (as well as from the mortgage  deed 
itself which  she signed). The valuation was agreed by Ms O and Ascent on its clients  behalf 
following a valuation from Ms Os agent. It was open  to her to ask for more time to sell the 
property at a higher  price; Ms O says that she did make this request. The contact notes dont 
show that Ms O asked for more time after November in order to get a higher  price; I place 
weight on these notes  as they were  written at the time. Ms O has also confirmed that while  
she borrowed money to pay for two mortgages (and the associated  costs) at the same time,  
those loans were interest free. Im not persuaded that its fair or reasonable for Ascent to pay 
for the financial loss connected to the sale price in the circumstances.
Ms O also feels its unfair and unreasonable for her to pay the interest on Ascents clients  
loan as Ascents actions  delayed  the sale in her view.  But I havent found  Ascent  to be at 
fault for the loss of the August 2018  sale so dont  think its unfair  or unreasonable  for its 
client to claim  the interest to which its legally entitled under the terms and conditions of the 
loan she accepted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party made any comments in relation to the merits  of my provisional decision. 
Accordingly, I have  reviewed the evidence again  and remain of the view that my provisional 
decision is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or reject my decision before 
10 October 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1449893