K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Mr C says American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  Amex  told us that the commission  for 
Mr Cs PPI was less than 50% of what Mr C paid,  so it didnt need to pay back any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI.
Mr Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Amex didnt need  to tell Mr C about 
the commission it received - so Amex doesnt need  to pay back  any of the commission  Mr C 
paid for the PPI. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think Amex  made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out. I say this because Mr C took out the credit card and PPI over the internet. The 
application process for PPI was that someone  had to click yes to select the policy. 
Amex has provided  evidence that Mr C clicked yes to request PPI during the online 
application.
Ref: DRN11028772Amex didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr C enough clear  and timely information 
so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Amex gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type 
of cover.  The cover wasnt  fundamentally wrong for Mr C  for example he wasnt  
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits  to the cover. And it wasnt too dissimilar 
to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was given. There  
were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health  or back  problems. It also 
looks like it was affordable  so it seems  like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr C would have  declined  the cover 
had Amex done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr C would  have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting  and I think  the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Cs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Amex should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Cs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I do not uphold  
the mis-sale element of this complaint.  
This means  Amex doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
Ref: DRN11028773non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Amex  didnt need to disclose the commission  it received, so 
Amex doesnt  need to do pay back any of the commission Mr C paid.  My reasons are set out 
below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr Cs representative has made a number of representations  about  this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment  and sections 140A  and 140B  of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr C should  get back all the money  he paid for the policy  
because: Amex failed to tell Mr C about  the high commission  and profit-share rates  paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value,  I should  find that Mr C wouldnt  have taken out the policy  had they 
known about the level of commission  and he should receive a refund of all the premiums  he 
paid.
But in this case, Amex has told us that the commission for Mr Cs PPI was less than half of 
what he paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how Amex has worked  this out and based  
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Cs case  was less than half the 
cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Amex needed to tell Mr C about the commission.  So it follows that I dont think  
the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think Amex treated Mr C unfairly.  
This means  Amex doesnt need to pay Mr C back any of the commission  he paid for the PPI. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN11028774my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold  the mis-sale element of Mr Cs complaint or make any award  in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that American  Express Services Europe  Limited  didnt need  to 
disclose the commission  it received,  it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Mr C 
paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2021.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1102877