K822xcomplaint
Ms Ys complaint is about the handling of a claim under a home emergency insurance policy
provided by Aviva Insurance Limited.
Aviva uses  agents to deal with claims on hits behalf. All references in this decision to Aviva
should be read as also including anything  said and done on its behalf  by those claims-
handling agents.
background 
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  in January 2020, part of which is copied below: 
Ms Y made a claim under her policy  with Aviva in June 2017 as there was water  leaking
from her bathroom. Avivas contractors attended  to deal with it but misdiagnosed the
problem, which resulted in a large leak happening on 26 December 2017, which caused
additional damage  to Ms Ys home. Aviva accepted responsibility for this. Ms Y had called 
Aviva out several  times between June and December 2017 but it repeatedly said the water 
damage was due to a defective shower tray or her children splashing water.
Ms Y was left with no heating hot water  or lighting after the major leak on 26 December
2017. She and her children had to stay with her parents  for a few days  until the electrics
were all checked. Aviva sent out contractors to agree what work  was required to put Ms Ys
home back in the condition  it was in before this.
Ms Y says she provided quotes  for the repair work but Aviva said it would  be cheaper for it to
do the work itself,  so she agreed as it was offering a lower cash  amount. Aviva says Ms Y
never provided a quote herself.
The initial quotes  didnt  include  the cost of retiling  the entire bathroom, which Ms Y said was
required. Aviva agreed to this additional  work and a revised schedule of work was prepared
to reflect  this in July 2018. The revised  cost of the works was £6,354.05, including  VAT.
Most of the work is agreed  but there is still disagreement about the extent of repairs required
to the lounge ceiling. Ms Y says that the contractors instructed by Aviva told her the whole 
ceiling would  need to come down  and be replaced  but the schedule of work and estimate  
would only cover a patch repair of six square metres.
Ms Y didnt therefore  agree  to Avivas contractors starting  the work and discussion was had
about a cash in lieu settlement instead.  Aviva  offered the sum of £4,827.96 (exclusive of
VAT). It says this is lower than the July 2018  estimate because it is based  on local
contractor rates. Aviva also paid Ms Y £500  compensation  for the initial error of the
misdiagnosis which was paid in June 2018.
Ms Y is unhappy with the amount offered and also for the time taken  to deal with the matter.
Ms Y has also said that cracks have opened up in her home and she is concerned structural
damage has been caused by the water  leak and he delay  in repairing it. Ms Y obtained a
report from a structural  engineer.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She recommended  that the complaint be
upheld and considered that Aviva should pay a cash settlement of £6,354.05, as this was
what the work would  have  cost Aviva. The investigator didnt think there was any evidence
Ref: DRN17398282that the whole ceiling needed to be replaced. The investigator didnt consider that the
structural engineers  report  established  that the cracks were due to the water  damage.  The
investigator also said the surveyor didnt recommend that the repair to the lounge ceiling 
should be more  than six meters.
The investigator also thought that Aviva should  pay £400 for the distress and inconvenience
she was caused.  She then reduced this to £200, as she didnt consider that Aviva was
responsible for all the delays in getting the work carried  out. Aviva  provided evidence that
the contractors had discussed the works and attended three times to start work but Ms Y
had refused to let them start until the issue with the ceiling was confirmed.
Ms Y accepted the investigators assessment but Aviva didnt, so the matter has been
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The two scopes of work  are based on exactly the same work being  done and I agree with
the investigator that this is reasonable (apart from the additional ceiling repairs, which  Ill
come to later). However, it is apparent to me that the main  difference  in the two estimates  of
the cost of the work is the VAT element. Both the investigator and Aviva stated the July 2018
estimate was not inclusive  of VAT but this is not correct. The July 2018  scope of works says
it will be £5,295.04 plus VAT of £1,059.01, totalling £6,354.05.
The November 2018 scope of works and estimate says the cost of the work  would be
£4,827.96 and no VAT has been  added. The difference in cost of the actual work is therefore
£467.08.
Aviva would not have  to pay a VAT element if no VAT is charged to Ms Y. If her own
contractors do charge her VAT then I consider that Aviva would be responsible for
reimbursing her for that but not all contractors will be registered for VAT and it might  not
therefore be payable.  I do not therefore  agree  that I can reasonably ask Aviva to pay Ms Y
£6,354.05.
Aviva says the £4,827.96 is based on its agents  understanding of contractor costs  in Ms Ys
area. Aviva have said that their rates were switched to local contractor rates because this
removes the significant commercial overheads  on the labour side of costs that are in place
to support the running a large managed contractor operation which  would be set up for
Insurance purposes".  This is contrary to most  models where  large scale claims-handlers
offer discounted costs  to insurers for bulk work and there is no persuasive evidence to
support what Aviva  says about this.
In addition, this figure  might be what Ms Y can get the work done  for but there  is no
convincing evidence to support this. There are no quotes from other contractors. The only
quote is the July 2018  one. I therefore agree with the investigator that Aviva should  pay
Ms Y a cash settlement based on its estimate  of the cost of the work provided by its own
contractors, but without the VAT element, i.e. £5,295.04. If Ms Y is charged VAT on any part
of the work covered by this then Aviva should  reimburse her that on production  of evidence
that she has paid it.
Ref: DRN17398283I agree  with the investigator that there  is no convincing evidence that the cracks reported by
Ms Y are due to Avivas failure.  The structural surveyors report says: There is a slight
difficulty in attributing  some of the cracks to the leakage damage  since they occur on
junctions between  the original walls and the later extension. In the lounge  one of the cracks
(P024) has a definite sign of water staining  therefore  water damage cannot be excluded as a
causal factor generally. The surveyor has concluded that most of the cracks are not linked
to the water  leak. He says he cant rule out water  damage as a cause of one of the cracks
but he also hasnt  concluded that it was the cause.  I am not therefore persuaded that this
has been established.
However, the surveyor does also state the main damage is the deflected and water-stained
ceiling within the lounge. It is my view that the entire lounge ceiling should be replaced since
it may not be possible or practical to patch repair it without leaving signs  of the repair. All of
the wall cracks should be refilled and redecorate.
I also note that Avivas own surveyor reported to it in April 2018 that: Further  to our
inspection of the claimants dwelling,  we confirm that the majority of the plasterboard lounge
ceiling needs  to be torn down and replaced.  There is evidence  of wide-spread and repeated
water damage, and the ceiling is bowing in a number of areas.
One light fitting needs to be replaced  as well. The claimant has not used this fitting
December 2017.
I am therefore not clear how it could be said that there is no evidence to support Ms Ys
position about the lounge  ceiling and why it was considered reasonable to patch only a six
metre square area. The ceiling area is apparently around 38 square metres but Aviva was
still proposing to patch  repair a six square metre  area. Aviva should  therefore  quote for the
entire replacement, and the replacement of the light fitting, and add that to the cash
settlement. Aviva  should be able to provide this quote in response to this provisional
decision, given  that its contractors have  the details of the property and dimensions of the
room.
Given this, I can completely understand why Ms Y was reluctant to allow  work to start
without this issue having been  resolved. If now that the work  will include the replacement  of
the lounge ceiling, Ms Y would want Avivas contractors to carry out the work, rather than
pay her cash in lieu so that she can arrange  the work herself,  then Id ask her to let us know
in response to this provisional decision.
The investigator said we could not look at the inconvenience caused  before February  2018
when Aviva offered  £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the misdiagnosis
and wasted visits. However, I have not seen any correspondence from Aviva that would be
deemed to be a final response as set out by our complaint  handling rules.  As such  there is
is no time limit applicable  to consideration of this issue - I can consider the entire process.
Ms Y had to call Aviva out several times  for leaks that were repeatedly misdiagnosed. This
then resulted in a severe flood in her home on Boxing Day 2018. She has then had a long
process of trying to get the repair  work carried out. And will also have the inconvenience of
the repairs and tradesmen dealing with that. Ms Y also says there is damp  still within her
home, as Aviva didnt  arrange any drying out or dehumidifiers. This has clearly been a long
ordeal for Ms Y and her children. I consider a total payment of £950 compensation is
appropriate (to include the £500 already paid).
Ref: DRN17398284my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Aviva  Insurance Limited to do the following:
provide a cash in lieu settlement of £5,294.04 plus an additional amount for the
replacement of the lounge ceiling (to be agreed); or arrange for the work to be carried
out if Ms Y prefers. (If Ms Y incurs VAT on any part of these repairs,  Aviva is to also
reimburse that.)
Pay Ms Y £950 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by
the handling of this matter.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further evidence  or 
arguments they want considered. 
Ms Y has provided a quote  of £8,950  for the necessary  repair works. She says her 
contractor has pointed  out that the quote  form Aviv doesnt include replacing the ceiling in 
the bathroom which needs to be included. 
Aviva has also responded with a revised quote from its own contractors  for the work,  
including replacing  the entire lounge ceiling. This puts the cost of the work at £7,306.46. It 
has offered to pay this amount plus VAT, if Ms Y is required to pay VAT,  and the additional 
compensation I provisionally proposed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Y has said the quotes provided by Aviva dont include replacing the bathroom ceiling. 
There was a debate about this issue but Aviva  agreed to replace the whole  bathroom  ceiling 
before the complaint came  to us. I am satisfied that the quote  provided by Aviva  does 
include replacing the ceiling in the bathroom.   
There is a difference  of around £1,500 in the two quotes. This is the only alterative quote 
provided and Ms Y may choose not to appoint the contactor shes provided  the quote  from. I 
dont therefore  think I can reasonably ask Aviva to pay this higher amount, without further  
evidence that this is a reasonable amount for the work required.
Ms Y can ask Avivas  contractors to do the work  if she prefers. However, if she would rather 
instruct her own contractor, then I think it would be reasonable for Aviva  to pay her cash  in 
lieu in the amount of the quote it has provided (i.e. £7,306.46) but if she subsequently can 
provide evidence that she has paid,  or will have to pay, more for the work,  including if she 
has to pay VAT, then it should  reimburse  any additional amount.  (I have  said that Aviva 
should not necessarily wait until Ms Y has provided  proof she has paid any additional  sums  
before reimbursing her, as it potentially this could be a significant  amount and it might not be 
possible for her to have  to pay it upfront and then wait for reimbursement. However, there 
would have to be evidence that the costs have been incurred and are to be paid by Ms Y.) 
Ref: DRN17398285my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
provide a cash in lieu settlement of £7,306.46 plus any additional amount which Ms Y 
can prove she is liable to pay for the work required as set out in the quotes  provided;  
or arrange for the work to be carried out by its own contractors, if Ms Y prefers; and
pay Ms Y £950 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by
the handling of this matter  (to include the £500 already paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1739828