K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that the vehicle he acquired  on finance supplied  by GMAC UK plc was not 
of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Mr M says he acquired his new vehicle in August  2017 through a dealer Ill call E. He says 
the initial problem  occurred in July 2018 and this concerned the clutch  sticking  and 
preventing the vehicle  from starting. He says E replaced the engine on warranty. He says 
further issues arose in September 2018 with the clutch sticking  and engine  noise. And in 
December he says the car broke  down again  and had to be recovered  by the RAC. Mr M 
says hes sought  to reject the vehicle but E refused and instead  offered an extended 
warranty period.
GMAC told us the engine replacement was carried out under warranty  at no cost to Mr M. 
And it said the necessary gearbox  repairs  would  also be covered by the manufacturing 
warranty. It said the offer by E - to extend  the warranty and offer free servicing for a year 
was fair.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He said the vehicle had 
needed a replacement engine due to a clutch related problem. And new and/or related 
problems seemed to appear shortly after repair attempts. He thought Mr M had allowed 
more than one occasion for the issues to be fixed - but without success.
GMAC did not agree and said it thought  the offer to extend the vehicle warranty by another  
year was fair. As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsman has been  
asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to see Mr M has experienced so many problems with this vehicle. I imagine that 
when he acquired  it - as new - he was looking forward to a considerable period of reliability.
Sadly that has not proved  to be the case.
Under present  legislation,  as the supplier  of the vehicle and finance, GMAC is liable for the 
vehicle being  of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality in a new vehicle 
includes being free from even  minor defects and also requires an element of durability.
And whilst I dont apply the law - directly  - I do take it into account. Relevant  legislation  here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act of 2015 (CRA).
Briefly summarised this allows a consumer - in certain circumstances - to reject  a faulty item 
or have  it repaired.  And if the repairs are not successful then the consumer has a further  
right to reject.
Its not in dispute  that Mr Ms vehicle suffered a serious mechanical failure when  hed had it 
for just under  a year and it had covered 13,215  miles. The engine was replaced  under 
warranty. As this was a new vehicle  - and in the absence of contradictory evidence pointing  
towards a different explanation - I think this showed  the vehicle was not of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  Ill refer to this again  later in my decision.
Ref: DRN16528442Shortly after the vehicle  was returned  to Mr M there  was a further  breakdown in September 
2018. And this time Mr M sought to reject the vehicle  but this request was refused by E and 
GMAC. On 4 September GMAC wrote to Mr M and said:
In relation to your request  to reject your vehicle, we can confirm that E has declined your 
rejection request. Please  allow us to explain that unfortunately we do not regulate the 
dealerships and would be unable to overturn any decision made in respect of accepting  or 
declining a request to reject a vehicle. Before  a rejection request can be accepted the 
support of the supplying dealership would be required.
It seems  the vehicle remained with E for repairs. On 20 September the mechanic who 
undertook the inspection  recorded on the job sheet  that there were issues with the clutch  
and engine noise.  These issues subsequently  required  the gearbox  to be removed, stripped 
and rebuilt.
After the vehicle was returned to Mr M it once again  broke down and was taken in for 
repairs. The job sheet of the repair on 11 December showed a clutch  sensor was replaced.
But almost  immediately the vehicle broke down again and was recovered by the RAC. The 
inspection note refers  to a suspected issue with the clutch switch.  I understand  E diagnosed 
this as a loose earth wire and said the vehicle  had no other faults.
GMAC has referred me to a flow chart titled Core Statutory  Good  Remedies which it says 
sets out the extent of its liabilities. And it further submitted:
Our liability as a finance house is whether the vehicle was fit for purpose at the point  of sale.  
Mr M entered into this agreement on the 23 August 2017 and the vehicle was purchased 
new with no concerns raised until 12 months after purchase and at this time the vehicle 
achieved 13,215 miles. We must  note that Mr M accepted the repair  of the engine.
Ive gained the impression from correspondence  and submissions  that GMAC considers its 
liabilities are limited to faults which arise at the point of supply or within  the first six months 
following supply. And whilst thats  partly correct  - it doesnt describe the complete picture. 
The reference to six months following supply in the CRA does not define the period outside 
which an item is considered to have met the requirement of satisfactory  quality. Its simply 
the period in which a presumption that faults arising  within that timescale are considered to 
be present at the point of supply - unless its established otherwise.
In other  words once  a customer shows theres  a fault within that period they dont  need  to 
separately prove it was present at the point of supply.
Mr Ms vehicle  developed a serious  fault when  hed had the vehicle just less than 12 months.  
It required a new engine.  I think Im entitled to infer this meant the vehicle was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Part of the requirement of satisfactory quality is durability  
or - put another way - how long can an item be reasonably expected to last.
Ref: DRN16528443A reasonable person  would not consider a new vehicle would require a replacement engine  - 
assuming no evidence of misuse  of which theres  none here - within such a short time frame.  
The vehicle had covered only 13,215 which - whilst above average  - is not abnormal. Whilst 
the repairs were carried  out under warranty I dont think that mattered  to Mr M. He was more 
concerned with the vehicle being restored to working order rather  than debating whether his 
CRA rights would have  produced the same result.
But when the vehicle failed almost immediately  after this repair he sought to exercise his 
right to reject the vehicle.  I think he was entitled  to do so. Ill explain why.
If the vehicle  had not been repaired under warranty - Id have expected it to be repaired 
under CRA rights. A new car shouldnt need  a replacement engine  after such a short time. 
So when the vehicle broke  down  almost immediately after repair I believe Mr M had the right 
to reject it. The CRA gives a customer the right to reject  an item if an attempt at repair fails. 
That the vehicle  required the gearbox to be rebuilt so soon after a replacement engine  was 
fitted is ample evidence  of such failure.
Although the vehicle  suffered further faults in December 2018 I dont think  this changes the 
situation - other than to further emphasise the vehicle  is unreliable.  Mr M sought to exercise 
his right to reject immediately following the first failed repair  - and in my opinion  the refusal to 
accept this by GMAC (and E) was a mistake.
I do not accept GMACs contention that the support  of the supplying  dealership  would be 
required. If correct - and I dont think it is - it would  give a dealership a veto over the 
decision to accept or refuse rejection  of an item.  That may be its (GMACs)  internal policy 
but the relevant law affords a customer - in given circumstances - the right to reject  an item.
And an internal  policy cant  override  a statutory right.
In summary,  I dont think the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when supplied. As an 
attempted repair failed  I consider that Mr M was entitled to reject the vehicle at that time. 
Hes not lost that right simply  due to the passage  of time since GMAC refused this request.
So Im upholding  the complaint. I understand Mr M was supplied throughout with a 
replacement vehicle when  his own vehicle was undergoing repairs. So I think in those 
circumstances GMAC is entitled to keep monthly payments.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I uphold this complaint.
I now require GMAC UK plc to take the following action:
1. End the Conditional Sale agreement with no further liability to Mr M and
             ensure the agreement is recorded as settled on his credit file. 
             This is subject to the payment of all sums  and charges incurred up to the  
             date of termination of the agreement.              
2.Collect the car from Mr M at no cost to him;
3.Refund the deposit of £4,000  and pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of    
payment until the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN165284444. Pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused - including  for
             the amount of times the car has been  brought into garage  for checks and repairs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1652844