K821x#15complaint
Mr V has complained that Virgin  Money plc wrongly failed to allow him to buy a plane ticket  
using his Virgin credit  card.  He could eventually buy a ticket  but it was a more expensive  
one. He thinks Virgin should compensate him for the higher price  he had to pay.
As this decision in part concerns Virgins security procedures, Ive left certain  details 
unspecified. 
background
Virgin has offered Mr V £75 compensation. It accepts  that to some extent it maladministered 
its procedures. But it doesnt accept it should  compensate Mr V for the difference  in the 
prices of the plane  tickets. This is because of (a) what  its terms and conditions  say and 
(b) the fact that Virgin cant be sure the transaction would have gone through  the first time 
even if Virgin  had followed  its procedures correctly.
The wording  in the terms and conditions to which Virgin has referred  says:  We do not 
guarantee you will always be able to use your card or card details. We will not be liable for 
any loss you, or an additional cardholder, may suffer  as a result.
Our adjudicator partly upheld the complaint. She recommended  Virgin  should pay a further 
£75 compensation.  She noted she couldnt  be sure of the price of the ticket initially,  as Mr V 
couldnt supply  evidence. But she thought  the problem could have been solved in the first 
phone call. She noted Virgin had admitted an error,  and she thought that the £75 Virgin had 
already offered didnt compensate Mr V enough. 
Virgin didnt accept the adjudicators conclusion  it thought it had offered enough 
compensation already. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the sad circumstances which required Mr V to buy a plane ticket  so 
urgently.
Ive come to the same  conclusion as the adjudicator:
Some allowance must in fairness be made  for the fact that theres no firm evidence  of 
exactly what the plane ticket initially would have  cost, nor of what efforts Mr V could 
reasonably have made, even in an urgent situation, to find a flight  costing less than 
what he eventually paid.
So in all the circumstances,  I dont think its fair to put a figure  on the financial loss 
Mr V suffered  in this case and then ask Virgin to pay it.   
I dont think the wording in its terms and conditions  to which Virgin  has pointed is, in 
fairness, apt to protect Virgin from the consequences of its own errors. There may be 
many reasons why a card transaction doesnt go through that have nothing to do with 
errors made by Virgin. 
Nor, for his complaint  to succeed,  would Mr V have to show that Virgin  breached a 
guarantee that his transaction would in all circumstances go through. He would have 
Ref: DRN12173662to show instead  that, if Virgin had properly  followed its procedures,  his transaction  
would in all likelihood have  been approved. The financial losses Mr V is claiming  
dont result from Virgin failing to abide by a guarantee. 
I dont have to be sure that, but for Virgins error,  the transaction would have gone  
through first time. I have  to find it more likely than not that, but for the error, it would 
have gone through first time. I think this is a finding that, on the facts and evidence  of 
this case, I can reasonably make,  and I do make.  
As it happens, in this case Im not requiring  Virgin  to compensate  Mr V for financial 
losses, as Ive explained. 
Like the adjudicator,  I think  £75 is too little to compensate Mr V for the trouble and 
upset he suffered when  Virgin  blocked the payment for the plane ticket  on the first 
occasion. Like her, Ive decided  a further £75, so a total of £150, would be fair and 
reasonable. 
my final decision
I require Virgin Money plc to pay/have paid Mr V £150 in total. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1217366