K821x#15Complaint
Mr L complains  that Nationwide Building  Society wont refund  him £200 after a cash machine  
failed to dispense  this to him.
Background
Mr L has an account with Nationwide.
On 14 August 2018 Mr L wanted to withdraw  some cash from his Nationwide  account. First, 
he went to a cash machine and checked  the balance  to see if his pension had credited. He 
then went to a Nationwide cash machine to withdraw £210.
Mr L says that the machine didnt dispense  the cash but returned his card.  He went  to 
another cash machine nearby where he found  he couldnt withdraw any money;  the machine 
displayed a message on screen to say he had insufficient funds. He then went to the nearest 
Nationwide branch and reported  it and got a bank statement.
Mr L raised a complaint  with Nationwide. Nationwide investigated and said the ATM had 
reconciled and showed no errors. Mr Ls account  had debited  £200 so they wouldnt refund 
him because  they thought the money  had dispensed.
Mr L was unhappy  with Nationwides response, so he brought  a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked at the case,  he thought that it was more likely than not that the cash 
hadn't dispensed because  the records showed the cash  machine  hadnt balanced the week 
before. There were also some weeks after the transaction where the machine  hadnt 
balanced. And he recommended Nationwide should  refund  the £200.
Nationwide didnt agree  with the investigators view.  They said that the evidence showed that 
the cash machine  had dispensed the cash less than one minute from Mr L starting the 
transaction and although  the cash machine had some discrepancies, theyd all been  
accounted for. They accept there were discrepancies in previous weeks regarding the 
balancing of the ATM but not on that week. Also, they couldnt agree  that the cash  being 
retracted was the most likely scenario -for this to be the case and the ATM  to balance 
exactly £200 extra would have needed to have  been  dispensed to another  customer later 
that week - which the bank argues  is unlikely.
So, they thought that Mr L had received his money  and wouldnt be refunding him.
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me for decision.
On reviewing Mr Ls complaint, I came  to a different decision  to our investigator.  And I wrote  
to both Mr L and Nationwide to explain my reasons and provide them  with the opportunity to 
make further  comments. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
The cash  machine that Mr L used was owned  by Nationwide. Nationwide  have said they 
balance their machines  every week. They have confirmed that although the machine was 
£130 short  for the week ending 14 August, on the week following Mr Ls withdrawal the 
Ref: DRN16095722machine balanced- meaning there werent  any surplus funds  identified  in the ATM. There  is 
also no evidence that the machine was tampered  with.
From what  Ive seen I think its reasonable for Nationwide  to decline to refund  Mr L, I say this 
because:
Nationwide have  said that the machine balanced. If Mr Ls cash  didnt dispense or 
was retracted, Id have expected £200  surplus in the machine. For me to think  that 
Mr Ls cash was retracted Id have to conclude that the most likely  explanation is later 
that week another customer withdrew cash and received  £200  extra.  This is the only 
explanation for the machine to have balanced - I find this a very unlikely scenario.
Ive considered whether the machine had a cash trap installed. This is a device 
placed on the machine that catches  a customers cash  when its dispensed.  But I 
think this is unlikely  to have happened  in Mr Ls case. I say this because  I can see 
from the evidence  provided the transaction prior to Mr Ls was at 9.31, two minutes 
before. And I dont  think its likely  a cash trap could be installed in this time. The 
evidence shows that another customer used the same  machine less than a minute 
after the cash dispensed, at 9.34. So, it would be difficult  for a fraudster to install and 
remove a trap or the cash without being noticed.
Ive considered whether Mr L left the Nationwide cash machine before the cash 
dispensed. Mr L went to a different cash machine  owned by bank B to try and take 
money out at 9.34.56. I think its unlikely that in the timeframe of around  a minute he 
was able to get to that ATM, which  was 100 yards  away, and put in his card and PIN 
before requesting the money. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr L left the 
machine before the cash dispensed and his cash was taken by another  person.
In summary  I am satisfied from the evidence Ive seen £200 was more likely than not 
dispensed from the ATM. I think its more  likely  than not that Mr L left the machine before the 
cash dispensed and his cash was taken by another person. I realise this will be very 
disappointing to Mr L, but this isnt something  that I can hold Nationwide  liable for.
I know that Mr L will be disappointed with my decision, but I am currently minded not to ask 
Nationwide to do anything  further.
So subject to any further representations by Mr L and Nationwide  I was minded to reject the 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Nationwide have accepted my provisional decision.
Mr L has disagreed with my provisional  decision he says he has banked  with Nationwide  for 
forty years and he is disappointed. He has made  the following specific points about my 
decision: 
He wouldnt have  gone to the second cash machine to check if his money  had gone  
out of his account if the money had already dispensed. He has said that the second 
machine is only 15 metres away from the first machine and takes  20 seconds to walk 
to it.
Ref: DRN16095723Mr L is concerned that Nationwide told him that as the machine had just been 
serviced it would  take 2 to 3 minutes to dispense cash  and he should have waited for 
the cash to dispense. He says he wouldnt have  known this at the time.
Mr L says that the investigator said the machine was not balanced  every  week, it 
hadnt balanced the week before  and there were some  weeks after where  the 
machine hadnt  been balanced.  He says I have said they balanced the cash machine 
every week.  Mr L would  like this to be clarified.
Mr L feels Nationwide have been evasive about the balancing of their cash machine. 
He feels that Nationwide giving him £25 as a goodwill gesture indicates their version  
of events isnt correct.
Mr L has referred to online reports that indicate other customers  have had the same 
problem with Nationwide and he wants me to take this into consideration in his case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in the light of Mr Ls response  to it.
Mr L has said that he finds the comments regarding the machine balancing confusing and 
that the investigator has said one thing and I have said another. I have looked at the 
evidence again.  I can see that the cash machine  is checked every week to see if it is 
balanced. It had been checked earlier on the same day Mr L visited it. On that occasion  the 
machine was found to be £150 short so, not balanced. The week after Mr Ls visit on the 
22 August 2018  when  the cash machine was checked again the machine was found to be 
neither over nor under so on that occasion  the machine balanced.  
That means that if the machine had dispensed  Mr Ls cash  and retracted the cash  the 
machine would be showing as having £200  more cash in it than expected  at the end of that 
week. That wasnt the case. The other  scenario I considered which I think  is more unlikely is 
that another  customer  who used the machine later that week, withdrew cash and had £200  
extra. As Ive said in my provisional decision,  I think the machine did dispense  the cash but 
someone else likely took it. As the investigator has said checks  on the machine on the 
following three weeks found the machine to have cash over so wasnt balanced. I dont think 
that Nationwide have been  evasive  about  their checking of their cash machines. They have 
provided me information  that shows when the cash machine had their weekly check and 
what the balance  was on the machine when it was checked. 
Mr L has said that the second cash machine he used isnt 100 yards away and takes  only 20 
seconds to walk there. However, there  is still only one minute between the first transaction  
when the cash  didnt dispense and the second  transaction at bank Bs cash machine. In that 
time Mr L needed to walk there and insert his card and PIN. I still think  that this points to 
Mr L most  likely leaving  the first cash machine before the cash was dispensed.
Mr L has said he wouldnt have gone  to the second cash machine if his cash had dispensed. 
Like the investigator, I accept Mr Ls statements and I agree  that he didnt get his money. But 
as Ive said I dont  think the money retracted into the machine because  of the evidence I 
Ref: DRN16095724have seen and what I have mentioned above. So, I think the most likely explanation is that 
the cash dispensed, but Mr L wasnt there to collect it.
Mr L has said that Nationwide told him the machine always takes longer to dispense  cash  
after its been checked or balanced. He is upset that he hasnt  been  told this before, despite 
being a customer  of Nationwide for 40 years. I appreciate that this must be annoying  to Mr L 
but unless he knew the schedule for the balancing  of the cash machines it wouldnt be 
possible for him to decide whether to wait the extra time to have his cash dispensed. So, I 
think even if Nationwide  had told him this in the past, I dont think it would have made a 
difference unless  Mr L knew the checking schedule for each cash  machine.
Mr L has said he has seen online reviews that suggest this has happened  to other 
customers of Nationwide.  Although this may be the case, in deciding this complaint I must 
look at the circumstances of this case  and the evidence before me only.
Mr L has said that Nationwide offered  him £25 in compensation  and that must mean they 
think theyve done something wrong.  I have asked Nationwide about the £25. They  have 
said it was offered by the branch staff as a gesture  of goodwill payment as Mr L complained 
about the timescales for the dispute to be resolved. So, I dont think  the £25 payment 
indicates that Nationwides version of events is wrong as Mr L suggests.
For all these reasons and the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision, my view on what 
the fair and reasonable outcome on this case  is remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold  Mr L s complaint  against Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1609572