K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the actions  of Andrew Michael Ross  T/A Astar Studios (AMR) in 
relation to his loan for a music project.
background
Mr M says AMR was the credit  broker  for a loan he obtained  from a third party business that 
Ill call Business A. He says AMR encouraged  him to overstate his income on the 
application by including  his partners earnings as well as his own.  And he says he then 
realised the loan repayments werent  affordable to him, so he wanted  to cancel the loan. But 
he says AMR declined  to repay the loan to Business A.
Our investigator thought Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said from his perspective the 
situation remains that he was given a loan on the basis  that he was encouraged to provide  
incorrect information. He then realised his error in signing up to an agreement  he simply 
couldnt afford, before any service  was provided  and within  the 14 day cooling off period. But 
hes left liable to repay  the loan he still cant afford. 
Mr M also said he thinks its noteworthy that when he first put to AMR in an email the 
allegation about it encouraging him to overstate  his income, his statement about  that matter  
wasnt challenged.   
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
I think its important to note at the outset that AMR acted as the credit  broker to arrange a 
loan for Mr M from Business A for a music project Mr M was going to undertake  using AMRs 
services. 
However, this service only has jurisdiction to consider Mr Ms complaint about  AMRs actions  
in its capacity as a credit broker. It has no jurisdiction to consider any issues relating to the 
agreement between the parties  for the services AMR  was to provide to Mr M. For this reason  
I havent included  any of the detail  relating  to that matter in the background information 
above and neither will I refer to it in my decision.
So, my decision relates  solely to Mr Ms complaint that, as his credit broker,  AMR 
encouraged him to overstate  his income on his loan application to ensure it would be 
approved by Business A.
Ive looked carefully  at everything Mr Ms told us about this matter. Ive also noted that the 
finance agreement  he signed makes clear  that he needed to ensure all the information  he 
gave to Business  A was correct.  And, in the absence of any other information supporting the 
Ref: DRN13344332basis of Mr Ms complaint, I cant conclude AMR improperly encouraged or persuaded him to 
include any inaccurate financial information on his loan application.
I think its also worth noting that Business As told us Mr Ms loan wouldve still been 
approved if hed only included his own income on the application. So, this suggests that 
even if AMR had encouraged Mr M to overstate  his income, that wouldnt have  made any 
practical difference to the situation he now unfortunately finds himself in.  
And, for these reasons,  I cant  fairly and reasonably uphold Mr Ms complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Andrew Michael Ross T/A Astar Studios.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1334433