K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold two equity  release mortgage loans in 2000  and in 
2006 by Aviva Equity Release  UK Limited  (formerly Norwich Union). 
In summary,  the complaint is that when the mortgages were sold Aviva:
-didnt explain the implications of the loan or give enough information about  the way 
the loan worked;
-didnt explore a range  of alternative financing options;
-didnt assess Mr and Mrs Ss needs at the time the loan was sold;
-failed to assess risk;
-didnt discuss the pros and cons of equity release mortgages;
-the interest rates charged on the loans were  onerous; and
-failed in a duty of care to elderly and vulnerable clients.
Mrs Ss complaint has been  managed  by her son throughout,  acting as her representative. 
Ill refer to Mrs Ss representative  as Mr A.
Mr A is concerned that his mother is now financially worse off as a result of Aviva mis-selling  
these equity release  mortgages to his mother and his late father. Hed like Aviva to 
compensate Mrs S for the financial loss shes  suffered as a result of its mis-selling and for 
the anxiety and distress  its caused her.
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs S took out an equity release mortgage (Mortgage A) with Aviva (then 
trading as Norwich  Union). In 2006 Mr and Mrs S took out a second  equity  release  loan,  as a 
further advance, with Aviva (Mortgage B).
In 2013 Mr and Mrs S were suffering ill health.  They moved into sheltered  accommodation,  
sold their home and repaid the equity  release borrowing held with Aviva.
In December 2016 Mr S passed away.
In early 2018 Mr A complained to Aviva on behalf of his mother.  In summary, hes concerned 
about the way in which the two equity release loans had been sold to Mr and Mrs S and 
whether the loans had been suitable for their needs at the time.
Aviva issued its final response on 8 March  2018.  It didnt think  the loans  had been  mis-sold 
to Mr and Mrs S. Mr A disagreed and brought the matter  to us. Our investigator  didnt think  
we could investigate  this complaint. Aviva said we couldnt look at the sale of Mortgage A as 
this was sold before relevant mortgage  regulation.  And, it wouldnt give its consent for us to 
look into the complaint  about the sale of Mortgage B because  it said this had been  brought 
to us out of time under our rules. Our investigator thought we couldnt look at any part of the 
complaint as it had been brought out of time according to our rules.   
I issued a decision about which parts of the complaint we could look into. I didnt think we 
could look at the sale of Mortgage  A as this predated mortgage regulation and wasnt 
something we had the power to look into. However,  during  our investigation  into this 
complaint Aviva has given  its consent for us to look at Mrs S concerns about the sale of 
Mortgage B.
Ref: DRN10325262A second investigator looked into the merits of the complaint  made about the sale of 
Mortgage B. She didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr A strongly disagreed with 
our investigators findings, including her assessment as to what was at the heart of the 
complaint. Mr A was also concerned that our investigator had misinterpreted evidence and 
that there  were factual  inaccuracies in her view.
Mr As responded to say:
-  Aviva should have  done more to make  sure that Mr and Mrs S would have been able to 
carry on living in their home. He thinks the advisor should have assessed whether they had 
a stair lift, or might need one in the future to stay in their home for the rest of their lives; 
- no legal advisor was involved  in the 2006  further  advance, unlike the 2000 sale;  
- Aviva recorded a wish list of what his parents  had wanted to spend money on, but it didnt 
try to analyse and assess these wants and see if they were  actually needed;
- he doesnt  consider that this type of financing is a suitable way of funding non-essential 
house improvements such as secondary  glazing,  and hed like the ombudsman  to make  a 
finding about this for future  cases such as this;
-he says Aviva should have encouraged  his parents  to explore other ways of economising  so 
they wouldnt need to borrow as much  money;  and
- he says Avivas advisor deliberately omitted, discouraged or skated over discussion  of 
certain difficult topics which might  lessen the likelihood of his achieving  a sale.  This includes 
making sure there was a robust discussion about  Mr and Mrs Ss long term care needs. 
Mr A is also very concerned that his parents  may have been  displaying  signs  of being unwell 
in 2006 and Aviva should  have provided appropriate support to mitigate these. 
Mr A asked that an ombudsman look at the case afresh and make a final decision on the 
matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Id like to reassure Mr A that Ive read all the evidence we have concerning  this case,  
including the detailed representations hes made about what this complaint is about. Theres 
now a considerable file of evidence about  this case which Ive reviewed in its entirety. 
I dont underestimate  Mr As strength of feeling about this complaint. I can see why he feels  
so passionately  that more  should  have been  done to offer alternatives to this financing in 
2006.
Were an informal dispute resolution  service, set up as a free alternative to the courts.  Were 
separate to the regulator and were not here to punish or fine businesses. We look at the 
specific circumstances of individual complaints  to see where we think  a financial business 
may have  made a mistake or treated a consumer unfairly. And, where theres been a 
mistake or unfair treatment, we try to put things  right as best we can for that consumer. As 
part of this process, its my role to get to the heart of a complaint rather  than respond to 
every point in turn thats brought to us. I intend  no discourtesy to Mr A by doing  this, and it 
doesnt mean that I havent considered all the issues hes raised. Its simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service and my role within it.
Ref: DRN10325263was the 2006 further  advance mis-sold by Aviva?
Ive already said that I dont have the power to look at the sale of the equity  release 
mortgage given  to Mr and Mrs S in 2000.  However, while Im not considering whether the 
first mortgage was mis-sold, I do think it is relevant in the wider context of Mr and Mrs S 
application for a further advance from Aviva in late 2005.  
Mr As said he considers Mr and Mrs S were elderly  and vulnerable at this time. Hes also 
said they may have been  unwell at this time. Mr and Mrs S were both in their eighties  by 
2006, although Im not persuaded they were  necessarily  vulnerable. And theres nothing in 
the evidence from the time to suggest  they were unwell. They  didnt discuss a need for any 
adjustments to be made to their home  to help them manage a health condition- and they 
didnt want to engage the help of a third party  or family member  for support while  they met 
the advisor. 
Its impossible  for us now to establish  everything that was discussed between  Mr and Mrs S 
and the advisor  at the time. Im aware that 13 years  have  passed since  the mortgage was 
sold. Due to the passage of time, it can be difficult in such complaints  to be certain of exactly 
what was discussed  and agreed  at the time.
Ive looked at the records from the time to try to get the best impression I can of what  was 
discussed. Ive carefully  reviewed the fact find, the suitability letter  with the advisors 
recommendation sent to Mr and Mrs S, the mortgage application and offer, and Avivas  other 
records from the time to try to build up a picture  of what happened  at the time. And Ive used 
all this evidence to try to determine  whether  Aviva  gave Mr and Mrs S advice that was 
clearly unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs Ss needs at the time. 
Aviva took a number of steps to try to establish if Mr and Mrs S wanted further support or 
involvement of third parties  as part of the financing process. Mr and Mrs S were asked if they 
would like a third party to be present  in the meetings but they declined. Aviva  also asked if 
Mr and Mrs S had spoken with their children about  their plans to take out further borrowing. 
The records  from the time indicate  that they had. 
The process of taking out the further  advance spanned several months  from the fact find in 
late 2005 to completion in March 2006.  I think if Mr and Mrs S had felt uncertain  about the 
advice theyd been given, or had thought there  might be another  way they could borrow this 
money, they could have  taken independent financial or legal advice. They  could also have 
reached out to friends or family to discuss their plans  if theyd chosen  to. This is something 
for Mr and Mrs S to have  chosen to do, and Im satisfied from the documents  that Aviva 
encouraged them to do so. But it was ultimately  Mr and Mrs S choice.
Mr A has queried whether  Mr and Mrs S needed  to borrow around £15,000 in 2006. Hes 
asked whether there should have been some discussion  between  Aviva and Mr and Mrs S 
about whether  they really needed the items they said they wanted at the time. 
I appreciate the point  that Mr A is making.  I can see why, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr A 
considers this is exactly the sort of conversation  that hed have liked his parents to have had 
before theyd applied for this borrowing. But Im not persuaded that Avivas advisor had a 
duty to challenge Mr and Mrs S about  what they said they wanted to spend money on and 
whether this might constitute a prudent use of the funds. Mr and Mrs S were able to make  
their own decisions about what  they wanted  to spend the money on (such  as purchasing a 
Ref: DRN10325264car) and I dont think its the advisors  role to try to convince them  to make other lifestyle 
choices.
Mr As also questioned whether the advisor should  have challenged Mr and Mrs S about  
whether their property  was a suitable  property  for them to want to live in for the rest of their 
lives. Ive looked at the regulations to remind myself  of the duties of the advisor at the time. 
The rules  say that if a firm gives advice about  an equity release mortgage, it should  take 
reasonable care to ensure  the product is appropriate  for them  and appropriate for their 
needs.
Ive thought about whether the role of the advisor could extend to questioning Mr and Mrs S 
over their financing wants were actually financing needs.  I see the point that Mr A is 
making about how viable it was that Mr and Mrs S would be able to stay in their home  for the 
rest of their lives. He thinks the advisor  should have  determined this wasnt possible, or not 
without adaptation. Im also aware that seven  years after Mr and Mrs S took out the 
mortgage, their health had deteriorated  to the point where they needed to sell their property  
and repay  the borrowing with Aviva. 
I wouldnt expect Avivas  advisor to have  carried out an assessment of Mr and Mrs Ss home  
or to make a judgement  about whether Aviva thought Mr and Mrs S would be able to remain 
in that property for the rest of their lives.  I think it was acceptable for the advisor  to act upon 
what Mr and Mrs S said they wanted,  rather than draw his own conclusion about  what might 
be possible  in the future  or what he considered they needed. I also bear in mind  that a 
lifetime mortgage doesnt just end on the death  of the borrowers;  it also ends when theyre  
no longer able to live in their home  because they need to move  into care  and can be paid 
back at that point without an early  repayment  charge. So even if the advisor  had carried  out 
that assessment  it wouldnt necessarily  have made  a difference  to whether  the mortgage  
was suitable. 
Mr and Mrs S are recorded on the paperwork from the time as saying they didnt want to 
discuss their long term care needs.  Mr As said that he thinks  this is a material  oversight and 
shows wrongdoing. Im not persuaded by this. I think  this may well not have been a priority 
for Mr and Mrs S at the time.  Im also not sure that had this section of the fact find been 
completed, whether things would have  been  any different. In the fullness of time and with 
hindsight this may appear to be a pertinent omission, but with all the advisor  and Mr and Mrs 
S knew at the time, I dont  think this was central to the advice being given about an equity 
release further  advance  application Mr and Mrs S wanted to make.
Mr As said hes concerned that alternative  methods of borrowing werent discussed by the 
advisor and Mr and Mrs S. The 2006  application  records Mr and Mrs S wanted  to borrow  
£15,000 for various purchases, including £7,000 for a car. Ive thought about their financial  
situation at their time as set out in the fact find completed by the advisor. 
I think, at that time, Mr and Mrs S had fairly  limited  affordable ways  to borrow money.  The 
details recorded  show they were on a relatively  low and fairly  fixed retirement income and 
said they wouldnt be able to make monthly debt repayments. The recommendation letter  
from the advisor records they discussed and discounted other  options  such  as downsizing 
their property, other types of mortgage,  other unsecured borrowing and grants from the 
council for home improvements. They had some  savings  and modest investments but its 
noted that Mr and Mrs S didnt want to use more than £1,500  of their savings. They also 
didnt want to move house and felt too old to move at your stages in life. I dont think  it was 
unsuitable for the advisor to have  recommended  they take a further £15,000 of equity 
Ref: DRN10325265release borrowing given their financing objectives and constraints as set out to the advisor  at 
the time.
Mr As pointed  out that no legal advisor was involved in the further advance, to check  that Mr 
and Mrs S were aware of what they were  signing up to. In Avivas application for a further  
advance it says it doesnt insist that a legal advisor is involved but Mr and Mrs S had the 
option to involve a solicitor  if they wanted to. The option to proceed without a legal advisor 
has been ticked. A legal  advisor  is typically involved when taking out a new equity release 
mortgage. In this instance Mr and Mrs S already had an equity release mortgage and they 
were existing borrowers who Im satisfied  were familiar with the nature of the product being 
sold. Im satisfied that the documents completed  at the time show  Mr and Mrs S were  
content to proceed  without involving  their solicitor. 
Mr A has complained that the interest rate applied to the loan in 2006  was onerous.  Im 
aware that the loan taken out in 2000  was given on a fixed compound rate of interest  of 
8.25%. The further  advance  taken  out in 2006, that Im considering  here, was granted  on a 
fixed compound rate of interest  of 6.35%. I dont think this interest rate appears excessive or 
out of line with comparable products offered by lenders at that time. I think  it was made clear 
to Mr and Mrs S in January 2006  that 6.35% was an indicative rate for the loan,  although it 
could change before  the borrowing completed. Mr and Mrs S went ahead  with the further 
advance, which did then complete at the fixed  rate of 6.35%. I dont uphold  this part of the 
complaint.
conclusion
Im aware how disappointed Mr A will be with my decision. I can see that this must be a 
really emotive issue and Im conscious  of his strength  of feeling on the matter.  Ive looked 
very closely at all the documents surrounding the sale of this further advance. And Ive 
thought carefully  about Mr and Mrs S situation at the time, what they wanted to achieve  from 
the financing,  the regulation at the time of the sale, and the role of the advisor. 
From all the evidence and arguments  presented to me, I dont think  it was unreasonable  that 
Aviva recommended  an equity release further advance  to Mr and Mrs S. It gave a way for 
them to release a lump  sum of £15,000 for the financing objectives  stated by Mr and Mrs S 
at the time. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S, or Mr A on 
her behalf,  to accept  or reject my decision before  10 August 2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1032526