K822xcomplaint
Ms D complains about the way Metro Bank PLC handled her account and says it recorded 
inaccurate information on her credit  file.
background 
Ms D took a professional studies loan with Metro Bank in August 2014. Her monthly  
repayments of £357.27  were  to start in December 2015, six months after she was due to 
finish her course. 
Metro Bank  started  collecting repayments in August 2015; after Ms Ds university told it she 
had deferred her course. Ms D had difficulty making the full repayments and her account fell 
into arrears. Her account was defaulted  in August 2016. 
Ms D complained to Metro Bank  that she had deferred her course,  so didnt think it was fair 
for it to start collecting payments until she completed her course in August  2017. She was 
unhappy her account  had been defaulted  and didnt think Metro Bank was accurately 
recording information on her credit file. Ms D wanted Metro Bank to remove  the default from 
her credit file and reduce the loan amount to reflect the stress  caused.  
Metro Bank  didnt think it had done  anything wrong,  it said it started collecting payments in 
August 2015 in line with the agreement. And said the default and the information recorded 
about Ms Ds payment  history,  was accurate.  
Unhappy with Metro  Banks response, Ms D brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
thought the complaint should  be partially upheld, she didnt think it was fair for Metro Bank to 
continue to add interest  from October 2015  or to continue to add further interest when her 
account was defaulted, as it was aware, she was in financial difficulties.
To settle  the complaint Metro Bank  agreed to remove all interest added to Ms Ds account  
after October 2015 and agreed  to update her credit file to reflect this. It also offered to pay 
her £150  compensation.
Ms D did not think £150 compensation was enough, she said shed lost out on job offers and 
could not apply for a mortgage,  because  Metro Bank  did not reflect her arrangements  to pay 
on her credit  file. She also said the default  balance  on her credit file was wrong.  She wanted 
compensation to reflect  this impact. She asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint 
and make a make a final decision.
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 4 February 2020.  In summary I said:
Metro Bank started collecting repayments  from August 2015, in line with the agreement.  
Metro Bank had responded  positively  and sympathetically to Ms Ds financial difficulties.  
I didnt think it needed to do anything else. 
The default had been correctly applied to Ms Ds credit file, as the loan had been in 
arrears for six months.
Metro Bank was restricted  on how it recorded  Ms Ds reduced  repayments, as her 
account had been  defaulted.  It follows that Metro Bank  cannot  be held responsible for 
any loss of job or mortgage  offers.  
Ref: DRN13304652Metro Bank could  have  clarified the restriction on recording reduced repayments and it 
delayed amending Ms Ds credit  file. I thought Metro Banks  offer of £200 compensation 
to reflect this, was fair in the circumstances. 
I asked both parties to send me further  evidence or comments for my consideration before I 
issued my final decision. 
Metro Bank  accepted my provisional decision. Ms D didnt, she told us that she did not think 
Id considered the information she sent us about her loss of job offers or what  she told us 
about being unable to apply for a mortgage. She said that she would provide further points in 
relation to this, but we have not heard further  from her, after extending the deadline for her 
comments.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think Metro Banks 
offer of £200 compensation is fair and Ill explain  further below;
commencing the repayments
Metro Bank  started  collecting Ms Ds repayments in August  2015,  in line with the agreement 
Ms D signed. It was under no obligation to suspend collecting  repayments until she 
completed her deferred course in August 2017. I dont think  Metro Bank made  a mistake in 
starting to collect the repayments when it did.
financial difficulties 
When Ms D had difficulties paying  her initial repayment  in August 2015, Metro  Bank  carried  
out an income and expenditure assessment and agreed a repayment  holiday until October 
2015 to coincide  with her starting a new job. Ms D missed her October 2015 repayment and 
Metro Bank  made several attempts to contact  her to assess her situation. 
Ms D started having difficulties making  payments again in June 2016, the records show  that 
Metro Bank  tried to get in touch  with her to review  her situation.  Ms D contacted  Metro  Bank  
in September  2016 and Metro Bank agreed  a reduced repayment of £250  for three months.
From the transaction history I can see that Ms D continued to have problems making her 
repayments. And when  she let Metro Bank  know she was experiencing financial difficulties, it 
completed income and expenditure assessments and subsequently agreed several reduced 
repayment plans.  Metro Bank also suspended  charges.
Our investigator did not think it was fair for Metro Bank to continue  to add interest to the 
account, once  the first payment holiday  ended  in October 2015;  or to continue applying  
interest after the account had been  defaulted. Metro Bank agreed;  and has now removed  all 
interest added  to Ms Ds account from October 2015.
Ref: DRN13304653When a customer is experiencing financial difficulties, we expect lenders to act positively 
and sympathetically  towards them. There were  no set measures that Metro Bank had to 
take, but we expect lenders to take steps  to understand a customers  situation and try to 
assist them.  And I think Metro Bank did this, by completing income  and expenditure 
assessments, granting a repayment holiday, agreeing to several reduced repayment plans 
and suspending charges.  I also agree that it was fair for Metro  Bank  to remove  the interest 
applied after the account was defaulted.
In addition to removing the interest  applied after the account was defaulted Metro Bank has 
also removed all interest applied to the account before it was defaulted, from October 2015. 
In the circumstances Im satisfied that Metro Bank has treated Ms D fairly and I wont  be 
requiring it to do anything  else, in respect of her financial  difficulties.
defaulting the account
I can see that Metro Bank sent Ms D statements and arrears  letters, before it sent a default  
notice. The default  notice advised Ms D that a default would be recorded  if she did not clear  
the arrears on her account. Ms D was unable to do this, so it defaulted her account  on 28 
August 2016.
Lenders have a responsibility  to report accurately on how an account has been managed to 
the credit  reference  agencies  and the Information  Commissioners Office (ICO) sets out 
guidance for businesses to follow  when  applying defaults. According to this, a default can be 
applied when an account is in arrears of between three to six months.  As Ms Ds account  
was six months in arrears  when the default  was registered, I dont think  the default  was 
recorded unfairly.
I appreciate that having a default will have a significant impact on Ms Ds credit  rating,  which 
may mean she is unable  to get a mortgage  and may have also had an impact  on her losing 
job offers.  However, I dont think it was unreasonable for Metro  Bank  to record  the default, 
so I cant hold it responsible for this impact  and have no grounds to ask it to remove  the 
default. 
Ms Ds credit  file
Metro Bank  was restricted in the way it could record Ms Ds reduced repayments, once her 
account had defaulted. This means that rather than showing the reduced repayments, the 
monthly entries are marked  as late payments, but the account balance should  show a 
monthly reduction to reflect the reduced repayments.
I can see from Ms Ds credit file that Metro Banks  monthly entries showed a reduction  in 
balance. So, whilst  I accept that Ms Ds credit score  would be impacted by her reduced  
repayments being recorded as late payments;  I dont  think that Metro Bank made a mistake 
in how it recorded  her reduced  repayments. So, it follows that I cant  hold it responsible for 
the loss of job offers or for not being able to apply for a mortgage. 
Having listened  to a call recording between Ms D and Metro  Bank  in September  2018 and 
seen a letter  it sent to Ms D about her reduced  repayments being marked  as late payments;  
I think Metro Bank caused Ms D some confusion as it didnt clarify the restriction on marking  
reduced repayments on defaulted accounts.
Ref: DRN13304654Following our investigators view, Metro  Bank  offered to pay Ms D £150 compensation and 
confirmed that it had updated  her credit file to show it had removed the interest  applied  since 
October 2015. However, Ms D told us that the default balance had still not been amended on 
her credit file. Metro Bank  subsequently  amended  the default balance to £15,150.74 and 
confirmed her monthly status  would now reflect interest being  removed from October 2015. It 
subsequently increased its offer of compensation to £200.
Although I can fully appreciate Ms Ds sense of frustration about the delay in clarifying the 
restriction on reporting her reduced repayments and the time taken to update her credit file, I 
dont have any evidence  to suggest  that either  delay  caused her any direct financial loss. In 
the circumstances, I think  Metro Banks offer to pay £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience and frustration caused  is fair and I dont think  it should pay anymore.
sale of Ms Ds account to a third party
Ms D is unhappy that her account was sold to a third party  without her knowledge,  whilst  her 
complaint was still being investigated.
Metro Bank  provided  us with a copy of a letter it sent to Ms Ds address on 30 November 
2018 to advise her of the sale of her account.  The sale of a loan account is a commercial 
decision for Metro Bank to make and there is no obligation to retain an account  where  a 
complaint remains open.  So, I dont think Metro  Bank made a mistake in selling Ms Ds 
account.
I appreciate Ms D will be disappointed with this outcome, but my decision marks the end of 
our process; this means  we cannot  consider  Ms Ds complaint further.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above. My final decision is I require Metro  Bank  PLC to;
Pay Ms D £200 compensation in total for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1330465