K821x#15complaint
Mr F says D and K Motorcycles  (D and K) mis-sold him a single premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a loan.
background
In 2006 Mr F applied for a loan over the phone with D and K to buy a motor vehicle. The loan 
paperwork was completed in the sales room  and at the same time he was sold a PPI policy 
to cover his payments if he was unable to work due to accident  or sickness or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  he didnt think  there  was 
enough evidence  to show that D and K had given  Mr F the opportunity  during  the sale to 
actively confirm that he wanted to take the policy  out or highlighted that the PPI was a 
separate product from the loan.
D and K disagreed. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
D and K had to make  clear to Mr F that the PPI was optional and make  sure Mr F agreed  to 
take it. D and K say their salesperson wouldve done  this and have given  us a copy  of the 
demands and needs  statement and credit  agreement signed by Mr F.
Ive looked at these documents carefully. All the demands and needs statement shows me is 
that Mr F was eligible for cover, he would  like his loan repayments  paid off if he couldnt 
work and that the policy is recommended. It doesnt show  me that its been  explained  that 
Mr F doesnt have to accept the recommendation or the he agreed to buy the policy.
And although the cost of PPI on the credit agreement is set out separately  from the loan it is 
all still lumped in together under the Key Financial Information which I think  suggests that 
PPI is part of the credit agreement as standard.
And again there is nothing on the agreement  that describes the PPI as optional or provides 
the option for Mr F not to take PPI  it is just included. So I cant say from these documents  
how PPI came to be on Mr Fs credit agreement. 
D and K have told us that Mr F wouldve been  sent documentation about  the policy after it 
was taken out. But I dont think receiving documents  about the policy after it was sold shows  
me that D and K made it clear the policy  was optional or that Mr F agreed  to take the policy 
at the time of sale.
So taking everything into account, I cant say its likely  D and K did make it clear  to Mr F that 
the PPI was optional or that he agreed  to take it. So it follows  that I uphold  his complaint.
Ref: DRN11307752what D and K should  do to put things right
Mr F borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve  been and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month.  So Mr F needs to get back the extra hes paid. 
So, D and K should:
Work  out and pay Mr F the difference between what he paid each month  on the loan and 
what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr F paid each month  from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from 
then on.
If Mr F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, D and K can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires D and K to take off tax from this interest. D and K must 
give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Fs complaint against D and K Motorcycles and 
direct it pay the fair compensation  outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1130775