K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) approved  her for loans 
without making checks to see if they were affordable for her. She also says it was 
irresponsible in lending  to her because she was on a limited income. She wants the interest 
she paid to be refunded.
background
Ms A told us that she had taken out several  loans  over the last 10 years when she had been 
claiming benefits. She complains that Provident  did not carry out proper  credit  or affordability 
checks before giving her the loans. She said the loans were  rolled  over and increasing in 
size each time even  though she was in arrears on the previous loan. She complains that 
Provident had been lending her money irresponsibly because she was on benefits and could 
not afford  the repayments.
Provident said it asked  for information about  her circumstances and finances.  Each  loan 
application form showed her stated weekly disposable income  was enough  in each case  to 
show she could afford  to make the weekly payments for the loans.  It said the payments were 
generally made on time, except for the last loan where some  payments were missed and 
some were  reduced. Provident  rejected Ms As complaint.
Ms A complained to this Service. Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and he explained 
which aspects of it this Service  could look at and which ones we couldnt consider, and he 
explained why this was the case.  He did not uphold Ms As complaint.  He said Provident  
said Ms As benefits income would have been  taken into account. He said she would  have 
approved of a new loan paying off the arrears on a previous  loan. He also thought the loans  
in the last six years hadnt always increased in size  some were  lower than the previous 
loans. And as he also thought Provident took the necessary  steps to ensure the lending  
decision was based on the information it had each time a loan was taken out, he could not 
uphold the complaint.
Ms A disagreed with our adjudicators decision and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again. Ms A added the following points:
She wanted the ombudsman to look at all of her loans  not just the ones which she 
took out in the last six years;
Her loans were continuously refinanced  and she had missed many  payments;
Most  of each loan was used to pay off the arrears of the previous loan - leaving her in 
further debt; 
Provident did not suggest it would  do a credit check;
The Provident agent had forms already completed and ready for Ms A to sign  the 
agent did not ask for proof  in writing of her benefits  and did not take into account Ms 
As changed circumstances.
my findings
can I look at all of the loans?
Ill first consider whether I can look at all of Ms As loans. In order for me to be able to 
consider a consumers  complaint, I have to find that they brought  their complaint  to us or to 
the financial business theyre complaining about  within:
Ref: DRN17553002Six years  from the date of the event complained of; or if later
Three years from when  they knew  or ought to have known  that there was cause  for 
complaint.
I dont have power to look at aspects of Ms As complaint if theyre brought  outside those 
time limits and the business complained about doesnt consent to us looking at it (as 
Provident has done in this case),unless  there  are exceptional circumstances that prevented  
Ms A bringing the complaint in time.
In this case, Provident said Ms A took out a loan in 2002, but Ms A says she was 
complaining specifically about the loans she took out over the last 10 years   from 2008. So 
that is the date of the first event complained of. This means the six year limit must have 
expired in 2014  well before Ms A complained in 2018. Ive also looked  at whether the three 
year limit had also expired  by the time Ms A brought her complaint. And I think  it did because  
Im satisfied she would  have realised fairly quickly that her loan was unaffordable in 2008 
which means she should have complained by 2011. We can give her the benefit of the 
longer six year time limit, but it means her complaint  about  her loans from 2008 to 2011  was 
still made outside both strict time limits.
So I must find that this aspect of Ms As complaint is out of time and cant  be considered  by 
this Service unless there are exceptional  circumstances that prevented it being brought in 
time. And I havent  seen any information to show this happened so I will only be looking at 
the loans taken out from 2012 to 2018.
the merits of the complaint
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I may not address each individual  point 
that Ms A raised, but Id like her to note I have given careful consideration to all of her 
submissions before arriving at my decision.
Having considered the evidence, I have to tell Ms A that I think our adjudicator  has reached 
the right outcome here.  And theres very little I can add to what  hes already said as I think 
hes set out the position  very clearly  and in great detail in both his view and his emails.
Ms A took out 5 loans  with Provident  from October 2013 to October  2017.  Firstly,  I do note 
Ms As submissions  that she was on benefits throughout the time she was applying for loans 
from Provident and so she says she was vulnerable but I dont think  it would be right for 
Provident to refuse to lend to Ms A just because  she was on benefits. Provident  confirmed it 
took Ms As income from benefits  into account  and it is entitled  to do this  so I dont  think 
Provident was wrong  or irresponsible in lending to Ms A. 
I noted that some of the loans paid off the previous loan arrears,  but  and I agree with our 
adjudicator  I could  see this was done  with Ms As consent when she signed  the terms and 
conditions of each  loan agreement. Ms A said the loans increased  in size as they were  
paying off previous arrears  so she says this is irresponsible because  she was left in further  
debt. However, I noted that not all the loans increased in size  some  were lower than the 
previous loan; so I dont  think  Provident did anything wrong here in paying off previous 
arrears or changing the amount borrowed as it had complied with the terms and conditions  
of Ms As loans.
Ref: DRN17553003In respect of affordability,  Provident would have asked about Ms As circumstances and I 
can see from the loan applications that they showed her stated  weekly disposable income  
was enough in each case to show she could  afford  to make  the weekly payments for the 
loans. Provident  confirmed it had also carried out checks on Ms As credit file to check  if the 
loan was affordable.  Ms A said Provident  did not ask her for a credit check to be carried out, 
but I saw she had signed each loan agreement which  gave her consent to Provident  to give 
her personal  data to credit  reference  agencies to help it make each lending  decision. So I 
think Provident performed  the credit check with the correct authorisation and took 
reasonable steps to assess the affordability  of Ms As loans. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Provident  did consider Ms As circumstances to 
ensure it was making a responsible lending decision. I also think  it looked into her credit 
history and considered  the information on the loan application at the time - on each loan - to 
ensure it was affordable for her. So  although  I am sorry to disappoint Ms A - I am not going  
to uphold this complaint .
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1755300