K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about how Zenith  Insurance plc dealt with a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy that led to him being held at fault. He wants it to restore  his No Claims 
Discount (NCD), refund his policy excess and pay him compensation for his costs  incurred.  
background
Mr G was turning right at traffic lights when an oncoming car collided with him. Mr G said his 
filter light was green  and the other driver was at fault. Zenith initially  disputed  liability  with the 
other drivers  insurer.  Then it accepted liability as it thought it couldnt defend the claim. But 
an independent witness supported Mr Gs version  of events. Zenith agreed that it had settled 
the claim prematurely  and it paid Mr G £150  compensation. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Zenith 
hadnt shown  that the other  driver had proceeded through a green light and so the fault was 
Mr Gs for not giving way. He thought  it had accepted liability  prematurely as it hadnt  waited  
for the witness statement. He thought it should put things right by recording the claim as 
non-fault, allowing Mr Gs No Claims Discount (NCD) if it was affected,  refunding  his policy  
excess with interest and giving him a letter to confirm this. 
Zenith replied that it had prematurely accepted liability  before  further  investigations were 
made. But it thought  that it wouldnt have been able to defend liability  in full in any case. It 
asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The adjudicator has already explained  that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible  for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
Zenith is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr G to take over, defend,  
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Mr G has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether  he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision  on liability. 
I can see that Zenith had to consider  Mr Gs and the other drivers versions of events. There  
was no CCTV footage available. But Mr G said he provided details of the independent 
witness. He said he had to chase Zenith  to obtain  his statement. But he then found that 
Zenith had paid the other insurers claim prematurely and in error. It told him that this would 
affect its chances of defending the matter in court. 
Ref: DRN14896912Zenith agreed that it should have obtained  the witness statement and investigated the traffic 
light sequence before  making its decision.  It said the best outcome would be 50/50 split 
liability. 
But it also told Mr G that its early  settlement  of the other insurers claim in full and final 
settlement would be viewed unfavourably in court.  It told him that on the basis of the witness 
being willing  to attend court it had a reasonable chance of a favourable settlement. But the 
premature payment would  go against it. So it said it had to close its file. 
Looking at the evidence that Zenith  had to consider, I cant  see that it fully investigated the 
traffic light sequence. The other drivers  insurer said that there  was no filter light for Mr G 
and hed turned in front of the oncoming traffic.  From the online maps and images, I cant  
see what the light sequence was or whether there  was a filter light for Mr G, though  there 
was clearly a filter lane.  Zeniths own notes say that this should be further  investigated. 
The witness  said that hed been  waiting at the crossroads and saw Mr Gs car waiting in the 
filter where  the light was on green. Zenith  didnt  think he actually saw the light, just assumed 
it was on green, but I cant see evidence either  way. 
The witness  said that as his light had started to change, Mr G moved  forward  and the other  
driver hit Mr Gs car as he turned  right. Mr G pointed out that the witness  light couldnt have 
changed whilst the other drivers light was not red. So it follows that the other driver had 
most likely kept proceeding against  a red light. Again, investigation  of the light sequence 
would clarify  this. 
So I think Zenith has agreed that it settled the other drivers claim in error before it had 
collected and considered  all the evidence. I think Zeniths agreed that this most probably 
affected the likelihood of a court finding in Mr Gs favour. Zeniths  own notes say that further 
investigation is needed, but its probably  too late for this. So I cant  see that Zenith  has 
justified its conclusion that the best likely outcome  would  be a 50/50 settlement. And so I 
think Zenith has prejudiced the likely success  of Mr Gs claim. 
To put thinks right, I think Zenith should  restore Mr Gs position as if his claim had been  
found to be non-fault. Zenith  has already paid Mr G £150 for the trouble and upset  caused  
him. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping  with what  Id award in similar 
circumstances. I dont  require it to increase this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Zenith Insurance  plc to do the 
following:
1.Record the claim as non-fault and update  all external and internal databases to show  
this.
2.Allow the NCD if it was affected  by the incident.
3.Refund the policy excess,  adding  interest  at 8% simple per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
4.HM Revenue & Customs  requires Zenith  to withhold  income  tax from that interest.  It 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN148969135.Provide Mr G with a letter confirming  this to show his current  insurer. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1489691