K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc didnt process his chargeback  requests.
background
Mr S used his debit card to make five payments to a business which Ill call H in the period 
from September 2017 to March 2018.  The payments  amounted to around  £2,000 in total and 
were for a service which Mr S says was never provided by H. Mr S says he complained to H 
and tried to resolve  the issue with them directly. But he says that H wouldnt refund the 
payments, so he approached Santander and asked them for a refund under the chargeback  
scheme.
Mr Ss chargeback claims were  successful for two out of the five payments. The other three  
were declined by Santander. Of those, one was declined for being out of time under the card 
schemes rules. The other two were rejected because Santander say that Mr S didnt provide 
the information they had requested.
Mr S gave our investigator the information  which  he says he sent to Santander to support his 
claims. As part of the investigation by this service, Santander agreed to look at it and 
consider whether they would have  been able to submit  the chargebacks had they received 
that information when requested. The information  which Mr S has provided is a letter  he has 
written to Santander and telephone bills which show calls to H in March and October 2018.
Santander say that the card schemes  rules require evidence of negotiations between Mr S 
and H to resolve the dispute as well as an invoice if available. They  say that the information 
from Mr S doesnt satisfy these requirements.  So they say they couldnt have raised a 
chargeback for these  payments  in any event.
Our investigator thought that Santander  had acted fairly  and didnt ask them  to do anything. 
But Mr S didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  He 
says he raised all the chargeback requests together and that the same information  was 
provided for all the transactions.  So he doesnt see why three of the requests were 
unsuccessful. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback schemes  are voluntary codes which banks can sign up to. If there is a good 
reason to do a chargeback, I would expect  a bank to try. But the bank doesnt  have  to do it. 
In cases where the bank  attempts a chargeback, there is no guarantee that the money  will 
be recovered. Each case depends on the individual circumstances  and the decision is based 
on the card scheme  rules. I need to decide  whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in 
respect of the three chargeback requests which were declined.
The card scheme rules which apply here say that the chargeback  must  be processed within 
120 days from the payment  being  made. The claim which Santander rejected for being  out of 
time related to a payment made  in September 2017. The chargeback was requested more 
than 120 days after that, so Im satisfied that it was out of time under the rules. So I dont 
think Santander did anything wrong by not submitting that claim.
Ref: DRN10612082The other two unsuccessful chargeback requests related to payments made in March  2018. 
Santander say that these  were rejected because Mr S didnt provide the information they 
needed. The card scheme  rules  set out the supporting documentation which is needed for a 
chargeback to be processed. And they say that, before Santander  can process a 
chargeback, the customer must have attempted to resolve the dispute with the merchant.
After they received Mr Ss chargeback requests for the March payments, Santander asked 
him to complete  disclaimers and provide all the relevant documents  in support of the claims 
within 14 days. Mr S signed and returned the disclaimers. These appear to have  been  
signed by Mr S within the 14 day period  but werent  received  by Santander until around three 
weeks later.  Im not sure why that was but, in any event, Santander continued  to look into 
the claims.  They wrote to Mr S again saying they needed further  information  from him. Their 
letters said that, if Mr S didnt send the information  in the next 14 days,  they would have to 
close his claims. Santander say they didnt receive  anything from Mr S within  the 14 day 
deadline, so the claims  were closed. From the information Ive seen, I find it to be the case  
that Santander didnt receive anything within the deadline. So I think it was reasonable for 
them to close the claims at that point.
Santander did receive some paperwork from Mr S around a month  later. But they say it was 
too late for them to look into the matter by that stage. There appears to have  been  some 
confusion over which address this was sent to and it seems it didnt reach the correct 
department of Santander at the time. However, Santander have  since  agreed to review the 
paperwork to see whether they could have used it to submit a chargeback claim if they had 
received it in time. They say it doesnt provide the detail  needed  to support a claim and I 
agree.
I dont think the phone bills show that Mr S had tried to resolve the dispute with H as they 
dont show what was discussed on the calls.  Mr S hasnt provided any detail about why H 
didnt agree to give him a refund. And I havent  seen any information which confirms the 
details of his arrangement  with H. Overall, I dont think the information Mr S has provided 
contains the sort of detail Id expect  to see for a chargeback to be successful.  So, even if 
Santander had received  Mr Ss paperwork within the deadline, I dont think  they would have 
been obliged  to attempt the chargeback  on the basis of that information.
Mr S says he raised all the chargeback requests together.  And he questions why some  were 
successful and others werent when he says he supplied the same information for all of 
them. From the information  Ive seen, I dont find that the requests  were all submitted at the 
same time. Santander were already looking  into three chargeback requests before the 
March payments had been taken from Mr Ss account.
As Ive explained above, the earliest payment couldnt be refunded using chargeback as the 
request was out of time under the card scheme  rules. The next two payments were 
successfully recovered  through  the chargeback scheme. Mr S had completed  the 
disclaimers for those two claims in full and returned them  within the deadline.  Santander say 
that meant  that they had enough information to submit  the chargeback claims in those two 
cases, which I think is a reasonable explanation.  As H didnt respond,  the claims were  
successful.
For the March payments,  Santander say that Mr S didnt complete the disclaimers  in full and 
I find that to be the case. They say they couldnt  submit the claims for that reason,  so they 
wrote to Mr S again asking for more  information.  As Ive outlined above,  that further 
Ref: DRN10612083information wasnt returned to Santander within the deadline, so the claims were  closed. I 
find that to be a reasonable explanation for why some  claims  were  submitted and others  
werent. 
And Santander have  explained that the claims are all set up separately on their system and 
arent cross referenced. So I dont think the fact that they had put forward earlier claims 
meant they should  automatically have processed the March ones. I also note that the reason 
Mr S gave on the disclaimer for disputing the earlier transactions was different from the 
reason he said he was seeking  a refund for the March transactions. 
Ive considered all the available  information  carefully. But based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think Santander acted  unfairly here so Im not going to ask them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1061208