K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc did not provide  him with clear  enough  information  about 
the cost of his credit  card and took a payment from his wrong current  account. 
background
Mr R applied for a TSB Advance Mastercard in January  2018.  The credit  card had a 
promotional rate of 0% on purchases  for the first three months. The interest rate on 
purchases would be 7.94%  p.a. (variable) thereafter.  
Mr R complains that even though he paid his balance in full each month  by the payment due 
date, interest started to accrue  on the account. He says the credit  card was mis-sold to him 
as information  about the terms  and conditions, including  the cost of using the credit  card,  
were not made clear. 
Mr R says that when he arranged to clear  the balance and close his credit  card account, 
payment was taken  from an account he did not authorise.  This caused  the balance  on that 
account to fall below the required  amount  to gain the maximum monthly  interest. 
TSB wrote to Mr R to say it couldnt  obtain  further  information from him, so closed his 
complaint as resolved. Mr R brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into things and thought the Terms  and Conditions  (T&Cs)  provided  
clear information about how the account  worked and Mr Rs statements made  his individual 
interest rates clear. Both parties disagree on how the faster payment was authorised. But 
our investigator felt the payment  taken from the current account caused no detriment to 
Mr R. He said this because the payment didnt cause Mr Rs balance to fall below £1,500,  so 
he still maintained  enough funds to receive maximum interest that month. 
Mr R did not accept the investigators  view. In response he accepted that he may have 
missed the detail about the credit card and didnt lose out much on the payment being  taken  
from the wrong account. But he feels  that TSB should have handled the situation differently - 
by this he still feels that TSB should have given  him clearer information  about his account  
and handled  his complaint  better. And, as a result he should  be entitled to compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused. Because an agreement has not been  reached, this case  has 
been passed to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr R says he took out this credit  card for the interest  free offer on purchases.  He says he 
wasnt made aware that interest would start to accrue on the account.
Mr R applied for his credit  card online.  Its unclear whether Mr R applied  for his credit  card 
directly through  TSBs website or through a comparison website. But nevertheless, Im 
confident he would be directed to TSBs website to complete his application.  
Credit card providers are expected to provide clear, fair and not-misleading information to 
their customers. So, Ive considered whether TSB did enough to make  Mr R aware of the 
interest rates applicable to his card.
Ref: DRN11088962TSBs website presents  the options for its various credit cards. The main  advert  for the 
Advance Mastercard clearly outlines that it offered 0% for three months on purchases then an 
ongoing rate of 7.95% p.a. (variable), 0% for three months on balance transfers made in the first 
90 days and 0% balance transfer fee during the first 90 days.
To apply  for this credit  card, the user must click on more  details and apply. The next screen 
says that this is TSBs lowest rate credit card at 7.9% APR. There is a list of bullet points 
outlining the key features, including the fact that interest is charged from the date of transaction. 
Mr R says he was not sent a copy of the account  T&Cs  following his online application. TSB 
has said that because  the card was applied for online  the T&Cs would not have been sent 
via post - instead  Ive seen a PDF version  was available  online in the useful documents and 
guides section.  
So, based  on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied TSB clearly presented information about the 
interest rates relevant  to Mr Rs account  at the time of application and made general 
information about its products easily accessible to the public. So, I cant say it has done 
anything wrong  here. 
Mr R paid his credit card balance in full each month,  so questions why his account started to 
accrue interest. I agree that most  credit  cards operate  in a way that means the account 
holder wont accrue  interest on their balance if its paid in full each month  by the payment 
due date. But, the terms and conditions of this credit card are different and thats reflected in 
the lower APR. As Ive mentioned, Im satisfied TSB made the key features of this credit card 
clear during  the application process.
Mr R also questions why interest  only started to accrue in June 2018, which was also more 
than three  months  after opening the account  in January 2018. Mr Rs March statement gave 
notice that he would  be charged interest  from 20 April 2018 at 7.94%. No transactions  
appeared on his credit  card statement between 6 April 2018 and 14 May 2018.  Because of 
his billing  cycle this meant that no interest  was due in May. This explains why interest started  
to be charged from June 2018.  
Mr R says he has lost out financially because a payment was taken from his Classic Plus 
account in error. With this account, Mr R received 5% AER on a balance up to £1,500. TSB 
has shown Mr R logged into its automated telephone banking services in August 2018 to 
make this payment.  Nevertheless, I can confirm this caused no detriment to Mr R as the 
payment brought his balance down  to £1,642.90. So, he still maintained  enough funds to 
receive maximum interest that month. 
Mr R accepts that he may have missed  the detail about the credit card. But, feels he is 
entitled to compensation for the way TSB has handled things. As a service, our awards are 
designed to compensate consumers  not punish organisations. Having to bring a complaint, 
on its own, doesnt automatically warrant a compensation payment. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I am not upholding this complaint. I cant say TSB has 
handled this complaint unfairly or unreasonably.  And, so I wont  be asking TSB to do 
anything differently. 
Ref: DRN11088963my final decision
For the reasons  above, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Arazu Eid
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1108896