K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that her ex-partner  was able to sell shares  in the employee  share  
incentive plan (the SIP) she was in without her authority  because  Computershare Investor 
Services Plc (CIS) didnt have enough safeguards in place to prevent this.
background
The company that employed Miss R provided  the SIP as a benefit  of her employment  and it 
allowed her to build up a holding of shares in the company. She joined the SIP in 2007.  She 
complains that between 2013  and 2018  shares she held in the SIP were sold by her ex-
partner who accessed  her account  without  her knowledge. She holds CIS responsible for 
this on the basis  that it shouldnt  have  allowed her ex-partner to access her account.
CIS said that it didnt  think it had failed to protect  Miss Rs investments.  It said that to access  
the account an employee needs to enter a shareholder reference number (SRN) that is 
specific to them together with a password/personal identification number (PIN)  that is also 
specific to them, as provided by their employer.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in which I said I didnt think  CIS had done 
anything wrong. I gave both parties  the opportunity of responding and providing further 
information. CIS had nothing further  to add. Mrs R disagreed with my provisional decision 
and, in summary, made the following points:
She doesnt think CIS did protect her shares as her SRN was on documentation 
received from it and her ex-partner  wouldve had access  to this without  her 
knowledge.
None of her passwords wouldve been written down and she wouldve set up 
passwords that she could easily  remember.
She has proof that her ex-partner sold her shares without  her knowledge.
She never had a joint account with her ex-partner, he used an account in her name.
The shares her ex-partner sold between November  2016  and May 2018 were sold 
using his email address  and bank account  and surely this shouldve  been queried by 
CIS.
She doesnt agree that some  people choose to have their money paid to someone  
else and she didnt  authorise CIS to do this.
She didnt need to check  on her account as this was her retirement fund which  CIS 
have compromised  by allowing a third party to access  her account.
She didnt receive any email  to her original  email address when the email address 
was changed,  as CIS said happened.  It has also said that confirmation of the sale 
wouldve been sent to his email  address.
Only one of four pieces of information  were needed to access her account, such  as 
date of birth, email  address,  both of which he knew, her national  insurance number, 
which is on her payslips, or her user ID which is on her swipe card for work.
She has provided evidence that only one piece of evidence  was required which 
doesnt appear to have  been taken into account.
She feels that the information she provided  to the ombudsman from her solicitor has 
been used against  her. She didnt accept the offer of £15,000 from her ex-partner for 
repayment of shares. The agreement to repay  £30,000 doesnt include the shares, 
awards, quarterly dividends etc and the letter from her solicitor clearly  states  that her 
ex-partner didnt agree to repay value of shares etc.
Ref: DRN10165372The final agreement clearly states  it was for her ISA, savings and solicitors fees. Her 
solicitor didnt include the shares  in the agreement.
Alarm bells should have rung when there were three failed attempts to access  her 
account.
She hasnt just lost her shares  but also the quarterly dividends,  awards  etc.
She feels that nothing  she has said has been  taken  on board and feels  her honesty 
has been questioned.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has said that she feels that her honesty has been questioned and refers to having  
proof that her ex-partner  sold her shares  without her knowledge.  I said in my provisional 
decision that I didnt  think it was in issue that Miss R wasnt the person who instructed the 
sale of shares between 2013  and 2018.
Miss R has provided bank statements for the second account in her name  into which  the 
share sales in 2014 and 2015 were paid.  This is the account that she says was used by her 
ex-partner. 
The two shares  sales  in 2014 and 2015 are identifiable as credits  into the account. But it isnt 
in issue that these payments were made into this account, so this doesnt  take us any 
further. I accept that Miss Rs ex-partner made  use of the account. But it was an account in 
her sole name which she allowed her ex-partner to access and use.
Miss R has said that she doesnt  think her evidence has been taken into account, but I have 
considered everything  she has said. However, I need to decide what weight to give to any 
piece of evidence.  She has referred  to what she said about  only one piece of personal  
information being required to access her account. I did consider what  she said about this. 
But her evidence on this point is that someone at her previous employer had spoken to 
someone at CIS who had said this. The email from the person Miss R spoke  to at her 
previous employer states: 
Unfortunately, she has confirmed that by logging into Computershare  online tool anyone 
can sell your shares and there  is no verification/additional check  or validate  the identity of 
the person.
But to log-in online you need to provide the SRN  and PIN, so this evidence doesnt really  
help Miss R. In terms of what was required when the PIN needed to be reset,  I still accept 
what CIS has said about needing to answer three questions not one.
I note that Miss R has said that she didnt get an email to her original email account when 
the account information (email account  or bank details)  was changed, which  CIS said was 
what happened when  there was a change.  But given  her ex-partner had access  to her 
original email account in the first place its quite  possible he deleted this. So, the fact she 
never saw an email from CIS about  a change doesnt mean this wasnt sent.
Miss R has suggested that alarm bells shouldve rung when there  were  three  failed attempts 
to get access to her account. But her ex-partner wasnt just allowed to access the account 
after three failed  attempts. He had to answer  questions before being allowed access. It 
Ref: DRN10165373seems to me this isnt dissimilar  to other  situations where there is more than one failed 
attempt to get access, such  as with an online bank account. 
So, I dont think the failed attempts to access the account in 2013 shouldve put CIS on 
notice there  was something wrong. There was no attempt to change the bank account on 
that occasion, the only change being to a new email address which  was Miss Rs anyway, 
and one she continues  to use. 
Miss R has also suggested that when her ex-partner changed  the email  account and bank 
account into his name  this shouldve been queried by CIS. But to make these changes he 
had to provide  the SRN and PIN, and this is where  the security in the process is. If the 
account was accessed using the appropriate  SRN and PIN, I dont  think  it was for CIS to 
then query  the changes  that the person  who had legitimately  accessed the account wanted 
to make.
Miss R has said that the agreement by her ex-partner to pay £30,000 didnt include the 
shares. The draft email  she provided from her solicitor  dated 26 October 2020 refers  to her 
ex-partner removing savings of £18,000 and £8,500 from her ISA, and to the agreement  
being £30,000 plus legal fees. I think this shows that the agreement included  more than the 
savings and ISA amounts.  
The email  also refers  to her having losses  in relation to shares she wouldve received and 
future loss of income from dividends and that her ex-partner didnt  agree  with these future 
losses. The email states Miss R is still out of pocket for the future loss of income and bonus 
shares. Nowhere in the email does it state  that the shares that were sold werent part of the 
agreement.
In the circumstances I have seen no persuasive  evidence that the £30,000 didnt include an 
amount for the shares that were sold. If anything,  I think  the email suggests  that everything, 
but future  loss, was included.
I expressed my sympathy for Miss R in my provisional decision and I do so again. Whilst I 
havent upheld  her complaint against  CIS there is no doubt that her ex-partner betrayed  her 
trust and took money from her that he wasnt entitled to. She has referred to the impact  this 
has had on her. But I need  to make an impartial decision based on the evidence available, 
and Im not persuaded on the evidence that CIS did anything wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above  and in my attached  
provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10165374COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss R complains  that her ex-partner was able to sell shares in the employee share incentive plan 
(the SIP) she was in without her authority because Computershare Investor Services Plc (CIS)  didnt 
have enough safeguards in place  to prevent  this.
background
The company that employed Miss R provided the SIP as a benefit  of her employment  and it allowed 
her to build up a holding of shares  in the company. She joined the SIP in 2007.  She complains that 
between 2013 and 2018 shares she held in the SIP were sold by her ex-partner  who accessed her 
account without her knowledge.
CIS said that it didnt think it had failed to protect Miss Rs investments. It said that to access  the 
account an employee needs to enter a shareholder reference number (SRN)  that is specific to them 
together with a password/personal  identification  number (PIN) that is also specific to them,  as 
provided by their employer.
One of our investigators considered the complaint.  He accepted Miss Rs evidence that she hadnt 
authorised any of the share sales between August 2013 and 2018 and he thought  CIS couldve done 
more to protect her shares, but he didnt  think it was at fault for all the sales.
He said that before November  2016 the proceeds for the share  sales were paid either  into an account 
in Miss Rs sole name or a joint account and he didnt think there was any reason for CIS to doubt  the 
validity of the instructions  it was given for these sales.
But the investigator  thought that the share sales between November 2016 and May 2018 shouldve 
been queried  by CIS, because the proceeds were  paid into an account  in the sole name  of Miss Rs 
ex-partner. He said it shouldve contacted Miss R directly because  these  transactions  were unusual.
CIS didnt agree with the investigator. It said some  participants in the SIP elect to have proceeds to be 
paid to a relative or partner, so it isnt the case that the account that money  is paid into will always be 
that of the employee themselves. It said what has happened is that Miss Rs has had her confidential 
SRN and PIN compromised, and not by it.
CIS said that one point  that had been  overlooked was the change  of email address in November  2015 
which it says wouldve prompted an automatic  email  to be sent to Miss Rs existing registered email  
address. It says this is to warn an employee that action has been taken on their account and if this 
wasnt something that they had done,  to contact CIS immediately. It said if she had responded  to the 
email it wouldve been able to stop the subsequent transactions.  It also said it was unusual for an 
employee in the SIP not to check their account for the period in question - around three years.
CIS explained  it didnt have a copy of the automated email sent when the email address  was 
changed, as it only keeps a record of this for six months. It also said that the records of the sales 
confirmations sent when share sales were actioned arent available for the same reason although 
points out these  wouldve  been sent to the new email address and not to Miss Rs address anyway. 
Miss R didnt agree with the investigator. She said that CIS shouldve contacted  her on the first 
occasion bank accounts and details were  changed. She said she had no reason  to change  bank 
accounts. She said all that her ex-partner needed to access  her account  was one of four pieces of 
information  such as date of birth, user ID, email  address or national  insurance number. She said 
that she felt that CIS had facilitated her ex-partner selling  her shares  without her knowing.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN10165375Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R complains  that CIS allowed  her ex-partner to access  her account and sell her shares between 
2013 and 2018. I have seen correspondence from Miss Rs ex-partners solicitors which  
acknowledges that he sold Miss Rs shares and offering to repay £15,000 in relation to this. 
I have seen further  correspondence showing that agreement was reached to repay a total of £30,000 
at £500 each  month,  although this clearly  included more than just the value of the shares  Miss Rs 
solicitors have referred to her ex-partner  also taking money from a savings account  and an ISA in her 
name. 
From what I have seen the first payment was made  in June 2018 and I have been told by Miss Rs 
solicitors that the monthly payments have  been maintained and I have also seen bank statements 
which show this. On that basis Miss R has got back around £14,000 of the agreed £30,000 to date.
Given the above  agreement  I dont think it is in issue that Miss R wasnt the person  who instructed the 
sale of shares between  2013  and 2018.  I will come back to the agreement for repayment but first I 
am going to consider whether CIS did anything wrong because Miss Rs ex-partner was able to 
access her account and sell her shares.
Miss R has said that her ex-partner didnt  need her SRN and PIN to access the account and that all 
he needed was some personal details  about her to allow  him to answer a security question.  But I am 
not satisfied  on the evidence that I have seen that this is all that was required to access  her account.  
From the information CIS has provided, to validly access the account you need  to enter the SRN  and 
PIN. But if there is an invalid attempt to access the account using the wrong PIN an email is sent to 
the registered email address with three security  questions.  If the correct answers are then given a 
further email is sent to that email address so the PIN can be reset. But whilst it is possible to reset the 
PIN in this way it is not possible to access the account without the correct  SRN.
So, Miss Rs ex-partner didnt just need some personal information about her to access her account. 
He needed to have access to her email account (to reset the PIN),  the SRN and enough  personal 
information about her to answer security questions. 
In the circumstances if Miss Rs ex-partner accessed her account,  he could only have done so by her 
either providing him with both her SRN  and email  account details, or him getting  access  to this 
information from her without  her knowledge.  Either way this is something that CIS had no control  
over. It was for Miss R to keep  her SRN and email account details  confidential. If she didnt do so then 
I dont think that is something  that CIS is responsible for.
Miss R says that her ex-partner got access to her account and sold shares  from 2013  through  to 
2018. The spreadsheet  of activity on the account that CIS has provided shows that there was a failed 
attempt to access  the account  on 10 August  2013 and an email was then sent to Miss Rs registered 
email address with security  questions  which were answered correctly, allowing for the PIN to be reset.  
The email address was then changed to another email address for Miss R which she is still using 
today. There was then a share sale five days later, on 15 August 2013. But the payment for those  
shares was made into Miss Rs bank account.  
CIS has said that when an email address is changed an automated  email is sent to the existing 
registered email address to state  this and asking the account holder to get in contact if they didnt 
change the email. This is another layer of security when  there are changes  to the SIP. It doesnt have 
a copy of the automated email, but I accept  what  it has said about this. Also,  when there is a share  
sale a contract note is produced which is available  online and an email is sent to the registered  email 
address referring to this. 
Ref: DRN10165376There was another  invalid login attempt  in September 2014 when the process  for resetting the PIN 
was once  again successfully  followed. This was followed on 28 November 2014 by another share  
sale. The proceeds  of this sale were paid into a different account than in 2013 but this was also an 
account in Miss Rs name. 
From what Miss R has said, although this account  was in her name, it wasnt used by her but by her 
ex-partner. But CIS had no way of knowing  that, so again I can see no reason that CIS wouldve had 
reason to think that anyone other  than Miss R had accessed the SIP and instructed  the sale of shares 
given the process required to change the PIN and the fact the proceeds were paid into her account.
On 25 November  2015  the email address was once again changed, to an email account that wasnt 
Miss Rs. But to change the email address the correct  SRN and PIN were used and I dont think  CIS 
had reason to question the change of email address simply because  the name on the account wasnt 
identifiable as her name.
This was followed a few days  later,  on 30 November  2015 with another share  sale.  But, again, the 
proceeds were paid into the same account in Miss Rs name as the previous share  sale in 2014 and I 
again dont think this was something that wouldve  put CIS on notice that someone else was 
accessing the account. 
A further point  is that as there was another change of email address, a further automated  email 
wouldve been  sent to the registered email address about the change  the email address  that Miss R 
still uses today  to which it didnt get a response. In the circumstances I can see no basis for finding 
that CIS did anything wrong.
There were  then share sales in 2016,  2017 and 2018. In contrast to the previous sales the proceeds 
of these were paid into an account  in Miss Rs ex-partners name. I note what CIS has said about  
other SIP participants  electing to have  payments  made to a partner  or relative,  and I accept this. I 
dont think this necessarily means that it would  never have reason  to question  to whom  the proceeds 
of share sales  was going, and it is arguable that where  the bank account details are changed to 
someone elses name after the account has been  ongoing  for some time this should  not be simply 
accepted, and further  checks should be made. 
But I also cant ignore the fact that CIS isnt responsible for providing Miss Rs ex-partner with her 
SRN number  and email  account details  that allowed him access  to the SIP and ultimately allowed  him 
to change the email address, PIN number and bank account details  over the course  of three years. 
This was for Miss R to keep confidential and she clearly didnt  do this. I am not criticising  her in 
relation to this as I dont think  that this is at all unusual when in a long-term relationship.  And I have a 
great deal of sympathy for Miss R, as her ex-partner has taken advantage of his relationship with her 
to access  her money. But Im not satisfied that CIS should be held responsible for this.
Even if I am wrong, and CIS shouldve done more to check the change to the bank account details  in 
2016 Im not satisfied that its possible  to calculate if Miss R has suffered any loss. As I have already 
referred to, she has recovered around £14,000 from her ex-partner. Some  of this at least is in relation 
to the shares that he sold. The total value of shares sold between 2016 and 2018 is around £3,237 by 
my calculation and arguably she has already recovered  this from her ex-partner. In the circumstances 
Im not satisfied that it would be appropriate to award  any redress to Miss R even if I thought CIS had 
done something wrong.
my provisional  decision
I dont think this complaint should be upheld for the reasons I have explained.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1016537