K820x#14complaint
Mrs V is unhappy with what the Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) did to put things right 
following her complaint about  the sale of payment protection insurance.
background
In January 2004, Mrs V took a credit card with RBS. At the same time she bought a PPI 
policy. The cost of the policy was charged  to the account, so shed pay this extra cost, with 
interest, in line with the accounts terms and conditions. The PPI ran until the account closed 
in 2016. While the PPI was active, Mrs V made three claims of the policy, which  in total paid 
£6,456.74.
In 2019, Mrs V complained the PPI was mis-sold. RBS upheld this complaint. But it said the 
amount shed received for the claims was more  than she had ever paid towards the PPI  so 
no compensation was due to her.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  on 18 August 2020.  My provisional  
decision said that, while I didnt necessarily agree with the way RBS had worked out whether 
it needed to pay Mrs V, I was still satisfied  that the extra shed paid towards  the PPI was less 
than she received when she claimed.  I said:
Id considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RBS had agreed it mis-sold PPI I was not looking  at how the policy  was sold,  but 
at whether the compensation RBS was fair.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should 
be upheld, the compensation  is intended,  as far as possible,  to put the consumer in 
the financial position theyd be in if they hadnt bought  the policy.
Here,  the PPI was charged to a credit card. RBS charged a premium each month 
based on how much  Mrs V owed when  it produced her statement. As the premiums 
were charged to the credit card account,  these amounts could  incur  interest  in line 
with the accounts terms and conditions.  Where this meant  Mrs V had to pay more to 
repay the card than she would have paid if she hadnt bought  the policy,  she needs 
to get that money  back.
But Mrs V also made successful claims on the policy. The claims were paid to her 
account to reduce  what she owed to the card.  In total, £6,458.74  was paid towards  
the card. Mrs V wouldnt have been  able to claim on the policy  if she hadnt bought 
the policy. I thought  it was fair for RBS to take this into account when working out 
whether it needs to pay anything to Mrs V to put things right.  And if the amount the 
insurer paid in claims is greater  than the extra Mrs V had to paid towards  the card 
because of the PPI, that might mean that Mrs V gets nothing.
With that in mind,  I thought that the main questions I needed to consider were  
whether Mrs V paid more for the policy than she received in benefits,  and what  
further steps RBS had to take to put things right.
Ref: DRN17999242I looked at what  RBS had done.  It had produced a hypothetical reconstruction  of the 
account showing what it says the balance would  have been if no PPI premiums  were 
included in the balance. When Mrs V made each claim on the policy,  RBS assumes 
the amounts repaid would instead remain on the balance. It doesnt charge  additional  
interest on these amounts. But in practical terms, this meant that after Mrs V made 
the first claim, RBS wont refund any further interest  or fees until the PPI in future  
exceeds the value of the claim, which in Mrs Vs case doesnt  happen.
RBS concluded  that the compensation for mis-selling PPI would be £4,846.42. This 
included £4,016.48 in premiums and £87.30  for the interest charged  on those 
premiums before Mrs V claimed on the policy. Finally, it included £742.64 in interest  
to compensate Mrs V for the time shed been out of pocket. But Mrs V received 
£6,458.74 in the claim. So RBS concluded that Mrs V got more  in benefits from the 
policy than she paid for this.
Mrs V thought this wasnt  right. She thought she was charged more  for the PPI.
I thought about  this. I thought it was questionable  that Mrs V had only incurred an 
additional £87.30 in interest because of the PPI premiums. In particular, I noted 
periods where  Mrs V had transferred large  sums to and from the account  at 
promotional zero interest rates. So any PPI that was charged during those periods 
would have been a significant  part of the balance on which interest was charged.  It 
also looked as though  some  fees were  charged  on the account because PPI was 
taking her account over its credit  limit. I thought it likely at least  some of these fees 
wouldnt have been charged if Mrs V hadnt  bought the policy.  
But I didnt think this made a significant  difference to Mrs Vs overall position  as 
even taking this into account, I think Mrs V still paid less than she received in 
benefits.
I was satisfied that the claims were significantly greater than the interest  and 
premiums, and the extra Mrs V paid towards the account, in the periods that 
preceded them.  The claims  removed any PPI premiums and interest  included  in the 
balance on the account. And even if the payments she had to make were  slightly 
greater, the claims meant the insurer had made payments towards the rest of the 
balance shed otherwise have had to find from her own funds. This also meant I 
didnt think Mrs V had been  out of pocket to the extent RBS had assumed in its 
calculations.
Even using more generous assumptions, I felt the compensation for mis-selling PPI 
would have come  to around  £5,364.  This was still less than the £6,458.74 Mrs V 
received in benefits.
As the claims still came  to more than I thought Mrs V had paid for the PPI, I wasnt 
going to ask RBS to do anything more.
I said Id consider any further comments I received  by 18 September.
RBS has replied to say it has nothing further to add. Mrs V hasnt responded. Ive therefore  
looked at the complaint again.
Ref: DRN17999243my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mrs V nor RBS have sent me anything further to consider. I therefore reach the 
same findings for the same reasons.
Mrs V received more  in benefits when she claimed on the policy than anything extra she 
paid towards the account because of the PPI. So I make no further award.
my final decision
Mrs V received more  in benefits from the PPI than the extra  she paid because of it. So she 
isnt due to receive  anything  more in compensation from Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1799924