K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
background
In 2010 Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage  with Barclays.  At the same  time they were sold a 
PPI policy  to protect their mortgage payments. The policy was taken in Mr Ws sole name 
and covered their mortgage payments if he was unable to work due to accident and sickness  
and if he lost his job. A successful claim on the policy  wouldve  covered payments for up to 
24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think their complaint should be upheld  because he thought  the policy 
was presented as optional  within the paperwork and wouldve provided a suitable benefit.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed.  They say they didnt need the policy  and it wasnt made clear it 
was optional.
So their complaint has come to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs W they had a choice  in taking the PPI. The 
mortgage was applied for during a meeting  and at the same time PPI was discussed. Mr and 
Mrs W say this wasnt done but they havent  given us much detail about what was said to 
make them think this, but I think thats  understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So 
to help me reach my decision Ive also looked at what the documents from the time show.
Barclays have given  us a print out of the online  mortgage  application  completed  during the 
meeting. The notes show that a detailed discussion took place about Mr and Mrs Ws 
financial circumstances and needs. The notes record that they would  be concerned about a 
drop in income  for Mr W if he were to have an accident or sickness  or made redundant and 
would like to know this would be covered.  I can also see that it was recorded  that Mr and 
Mrs W agreed to take less than the recommended cover.
So I think Mr and Mrs W understood they didnt have to take PPI as they could choose to 
take less than what was recommended and cover  was only taken  for Mr W when both Mr 
and Mrs W were jointly responsible for the mortgage. 
Ive also seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage offer. I can see under the section titled 
Insurance it says they dont have to take out any insurance through Barclays and the only 
insurance that is a condition  of the mortgage is buildings  insurance.
Ref: DRN10077002I think given the importance of the financial commitment Mr and Mrs W were making they 
wouldve read the mortgage offer and understood they had a choice in taking out PPI. I note 
that the only optional insurance  taken out at the time of the offer was life insurance. I think 
this further illustrates  that PPI was optional  because the policy  was only arranged  after the 
mortgage offer came  out and because  they chose to take it.
Barclays advised Mr and Mrs W to take out the PPI. What this means is that Barclays not 
only had to provide  information about  PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr 
and Mrs W could make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure that if 
it were to recommend  PPI that the policy was suitable to their needs  and circumstances.
I dont know if Barclays did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs W for the following reasons:
Mr W was eligible  for the policy and it doesnt  look like he wouldve  been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made it 
difficult to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr W says his sick pay was mainly discretionary but had savings  
they could use to make their mortgage  payments if he couldnt work. But the policy  
wouldve covered  their mortgage  payments  if Mr W was unable  to work due to accident 
or sickness or if he lost his job for up to 24 months per claim and wouldve paid out on 
top of any savings or sick pay and for potentially  longer.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs W in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to them at the time. And if 
they decided they no longer wanted the PPI they could cancel it.
I also need to consider  whether Barclays gave  Mr and Mrs W information  in a way which  
was clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or 
not they wanted to take PPI out.
I dont know if Barclays gave all the proper information as it shouldve.  But even if there were 
problems with the information  and advice, for the same reasons that the policy  was suitable 
and based on what Mr and Mrs W have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think 
they wouldve  still taken  out PPI given  the proper information.
This means  I dont  think Mr and Mrs W are any worse off as a result  of any wrong doing by 
Barclays.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against  Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019
Ref: DRN10077003Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1007700