K820x#14complaint
J, a limited company,  complains that Lloyds Bank PLC told it that it should take an invoice 
finance facility  (IFF)  rather than business borrowing.
background
The director  of J says that Lloyds didnt want to increase its borrowing facility  on overdraft. 
She was referred  to its commercial finance team  and offered IFF and a debt protection  
facility. J entered  into these agreements and was unhappy with the manner in which its 
clients had been  contacted directly  about outstanding debts and about the charges involved. 
It cancelled the agreement and then took additional borrowing with Lloyds Bank.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She had explained to J 
that IFF was not a regulated activity so we could  not look at the service and processes 
involved. But we could consider whether  the product had been mis-sold by Lloyds Bank.  J 
accepted this.
Our investigator said that it was a matter for Lloyds to decide whether  to offer J borrowing 
facilities or not. The application form for the IFF and debt protection  was comprehensive and 
included consideration of suitability and affordability. The agreement set out the terms and 
conditions of IFF. J said that this was the only option but she considered that it was able to 
make a decision about this. The debt protection  was an optional  product which  J decided  to 
take. Lloyds initial response to the complaint was brief but it expanded on this in a further 
letter. J was later able to access higher borrowing from Lloyds.
J did not agree. It said that we had not looked at things fairly or reasonably and the 
complaint was not properly addressed by Lloyds Bank. Due process had not been adhered  
to and this had a huge  impact on its clients and one was lost as a result.  The product sold 
did not operate as promised.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has set out the issue we can consider in this complaint is narrow and is 
about the referral  of J for IFF. Whether  that product operated as it should and the 
subsequent service issues are as explained  by the investigator and agreed with J not things 
that we can look at. Complaint handling is also not a separate  regulated activity and I agree 
with what our investigators said about Lloyds response here especially in light of my 
findings below.
Ive looked at what was noted about  the suitability of the product and formed the basis for 
Lloyds Bank  referring  it to J. This was that J was expanding  but that debtor payments had 
increasing terms. J was said not to want to arrange  for the director to give more personal 
security  there already being a limited personal  guarantee  and a second charge against  a 
residential property  given by her. The purpose  of the facility was to ensure that J could 
continue to fund works  and pay its creditors  and employees.
Ive not seen direct evidence that an increased overdraft facility was turned down first by 
Lloyds Bank.  It may be from what  was noted  that the terms of that were not acceptable then 
Ref: DRN11653452to J and thats why it signed up for the IFF in March 2017. But I agree with what our 
investigator has said which is that Lloyds Bank had the commercial discretion to decide 
whether or not to provide additional  borrowing  and the related terms.
I cant see that the referral  by Lloyds Bank  for IFF was inappropriate or that it could have 
anticipated the effects on Js clients. And Ive seen  that the commercial finance company 
then went through  its normal  process. All the terms were made available  to J including the 
costs. And J decided whether or not to take the debt protection. It seems that agreement 
was reached in May 2017 that there  would be no direct contact with Js clients  and I see this 
as a service issue not fundamental  to any recommendation for this type of product by Lloyds 
Bank.
J stopped using this in October 2017. It took a significantly  higher overdraft and the Lloyds 
case notes record that additional security was then taken. 
I understand that J felt that IFF did not meet its needs and stopped  using it. For the reasons 
Ive given I dont  find Lloyds Bank ought  not to have referred J for this product or that it acted 
unreasonably in dealing with Js business  borrowing. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1165345