K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance was not of satisfactory quality. He 
wants it to fund the cost of replacement headlights.
background
Mr D tells us he acquired  the vehicle in December 2018 through  a dealer Ill refer to as W. 
He says hes reported a number of issues with the vehicle and says it needed its brakes  
changing, a service and that the headlights  kept filling with water.
MotoNovo told us that W had informed it that the vehicle had been  serviced  prior to being 
collected by Mr D. And that as the vehicle  was still covered by warranty any other  issues 
could be dealt with by the manufacturer. It said the condensation in the headlights was 
potentially normal but that if this proved upon inspection  not to be the case  or any other 
problems arose it would be prepared to investigate.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She found  the vehicle 
had been serviced  in December 2018  at the time of supply to Mr D. And she noted the 
brakes had been  replaced in June 2019  having covered more than 10,000 miles since 
supply. She said that the condensation in the headIights wasnt considered to be a fault as 
the handbook referred  to this issue occurring in certain climatic conditions and didnt affect 
the functionality  of the vehicle.
Mr D didnt accept this outcome. He said that whilst he was happy  with the car overall he 
wanted the headlights replacing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr D feels there are still unresolved  issues with this vehicle  and I can 
understand his concern.
Mr Ds hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). 
This states  that in order to conform to contract  goods have to be of satisfactory quality  at the 
point of supply.  And satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory.
Dealing with each of the issues which Mr D has raised Ive been provided with information 
which shows the vehicle  was serviced in December 2018 at or around the time it was 
supplied to him. Similarly, I understand brake pads and sensors were replaced  in June 2019. 
Although brakes  are usually considered to be a wear and tear item and part of routine 
maintenance which a consumer  should expect to meet as part of normal running costs.
Ref: DRN13484332Most of Mr Ds concern  appears to centre on the issue of water ingress into the headlights. 
He confirms as much  in an email  in reply to our adjudicators view in which he says:
 Im happy with the car overall I basically want the headlights replacing.
Hes also referred me to various  comments made  in online forums  which  he says support his 
view. But Im afraid I dont  think that anecdotal  quotes from unknown sources are a reliable 
basis from which to gather evidence.
Ive seen information which confirms that new seals were  fitted  under the vehicle warranty  in 
February 2019. And Ive also seen from the vehicle handbook that the issue  is recognised as 
a characteristic  of the vehicle.  This states:
Certain climatic and physical conditions  may cause moisture to form in the headlamp.  This 
moisture does not affect  the functionality of the headlamp.
Whilst acknowledging Mr Ds concern Ive not seen anything to suggest the performance of 
the vehicle has been in any way compromised.  In December 2019 the vehicle passed an 
MOT test without  advisories. Lights and electrics are included  in MOT tests so if there were  
any significant faults in this area Id expect  these to be picked up during the test. The 
mileage recorded  at this time was 60,471. This indicates  the vehicle has travelled 16,000  
miles since being acquired by Mr D. This is above  the average wed expect in the timescale 
and further confirms the vehicle is performing as expected.
In summary,  I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. So Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1348433