K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) didnt claim direct  debit 
payments for his loan after he switched bank accounts. 
Background
Mr C has a loan with M&S and in early December 2017 switched his bank account. Mr C 
thought his M&S loan payment would be made  by his new bank  as part of the switching 
service. But the direct  debit instruction from Mr Cs original bank was cancelled via a bacs 
message on 21 December 2017.  M&S says it wrote  to Mr C to tell him he needed  to arrange 
for a new direct debit  instruction on the same day.
Shortly after, M&S claimed the December 2017 loan payment. But the January 2018 
payment wasnt made. M&S says it attempted to contact Mr C by letter and over the phone 
to discuss the missed payment. 
Mr C made  up the missed payment in February 2018 and went  on to complain. M&S didnt 
agree an error had been made. M&S  said the direct debit was cancelled in line with the 
message it received and that Mr C hadnt  sent it a new direct  debit mandate.
Mr C referred  his complaint to this service and an investigator  looked  at what had happened 
and asked M&S to pay £75. The investigator  thought M&S had given Mr C confusing 
information about what direct debits were  in place. M&S didnt agree so the complaints been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
Mrs C brings this complaint on behalf  of Mr C.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M&S isnt a member of the account  switching service in relation to its personal loans which  
means when a customer switches their bank  account it cant accept electronic instructions to 
amend the direct debit instruction. As a result, when M&S was notified by Mr Cs original 
banks bacs message that the direct debit  instruction  had been cancelled  it says a letter  was 
sent to Mr C asking for instructions. 
M&S says it didnt hear back  from Mr C with a new direct debit instruction. But Mr C says he 
didnt receive a letter from M&S advising  that a new direct debit mandate was needed. M&S 
hasnt retained a copy of its letter but has provided  an anonymised template  which  it says 
was sent on 21 December 2017.  
The issue  I have is that the systems evidence M&S has sent doesnt  show  a letter  was sent 
to Mr C on 21 December 2017. The systems  notes show the bacs message was received on 
21 December 2017 but the new direct debit letter code of 904  isnt showing on M&S 
systems as being sent. M&S has sent us a template  of a later letter  is says was sent with the 
code 842 (an arrears letter) and the systems evidence  shows  that was sent on 
5 February 2018.  
Ref: DRN13114232Mr C says he didnt receive a letter dated  21 December 2017 asking for a new direct debit 
instruction and I havent seen any systems  evidence  to show it was sent. So I think its fair to 
accept Mr Cs claim that M&S didnt tell him when the existing direct  debit mandate was 
cancelled. 
The investigator thought M&S had given Mr C unclear information about  his direct debit 
instruction and why it had been cancelled. She asked M&S  to pay Mr C £75 for the trouble 
and upset caused. M&S says it didnt make a mistake and wasnt  involved with the decision 
to cancel the original  direct debit. 
I can see M&S didnt cancel the original direct debit. But I agree with the investigator that 
some of the information  it provided wasnt clear. Other  information  Ive seen shows from a 
related case indicates  Mr Cs new bank was the party that claimed his December 2017  direct 
debit payment. In addition, I havent seen systems information that verifies M&S  wrote to 
Mr C when his direct debit was cancelled in December 2017. Had Mr C received that letter, I 
dont doubt he would  have got in touch sooner to query why his payment hadnt  been 
received. I agree that when  M&S discussed the account and wrote to Mr C it could have 
given him more information  about why he needed  to complete a new direct debit mandate as 
well. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr C has experienced some distress and inconvenience because the 
information M&S provided wasnt clear enough.  The investigator has upheld Mr Cs 
complaint and recommended £75. I think that £75 fairly reflects  the impact of the situation  on 
Mr C so Im going to endorse  the settlement recommended. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc to pay Mr C £75. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1311423