K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G) has refused her claim for 
loss of rent.
background
Mrs F owns a property  which  she rents  out. In June 2018 the property was hit by a car and 
suffered structural damage  Mrs F contacted L&G to make a claim. L&G investigated  the 
claim and agreed to pay for the repairs. 
A claim  was also submitted for loss of rent. L&G refused to pay for any loss of rent during 
the time the repairs  were being completed.  It said that, at the time of the damage, Mrs Fs 
property was not occupied by tenants and hadnt been for over six months. 
Mrs F complained to L&G. She said the property had been consistently let out for many  
years and it was only unoccupied  as she needed to undertake renovation  works  and 
updates. She said she was in the process  of putting the property back on the rental  market  
when the accident happened. L&G reviewed her complaint but said that, as there  wasnt  a 
tenancy agreement  in place at the time of the loss, there was no loss of rent to be paid.
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Mrs F came to our service.  Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and said the loss of rent claim should be paid. She didnt think that it was 
reasonable for L&G to refuse  to pay based on the fact there was no tenant in place. She 
found the documents provided,  including letters from a local estate  agent,  to be enough  
evidence to support  that Mrs F would have been renting out the property if the accident 
hadnt occurred.  Our investigator said that Mrs F had done enough to demonstrate  there was 
a loss.
L&G disagreed with the investigators view. It reiterated that there was no loss of rent as 
Mrs F didnt  have any tenants at the time of the accident. The complaint has therefore been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Fs policy with L&G states  the following;
If the Home  is damaged  by any cause covered under Section 1  Buildings  and, as a 
result, cannot be lived in, 
We will pay for:
(a)Loss of rent due to You which You are unable to recover;
So, I need to decide if L&G has fairly applied its terms when declining Mrs Fs claim for loss 
of rent.
There is no dispute that, at the time of the accident  which caused the damage, Mrs Fs 
property wasnt lived in by tenants. Mrs F explained the house hadnt been  rented out for just 
over six months due to works she was completing.  As the property had been  consistently 
rented for several years prior to this, it seems reasonable  she would need to do some 
updating before letting  it again. 
Ref: DRN18079712L&G argues  that, as there was no tenant  in place, she wasnt  due any rent. But Mrs F has 
told us she was in a position to rent out the property at the time of the loss  she expected  to 
have a tenant by mid-July. Shes provided a letter from a local estate agent, dated before the 
accident, which details  the potential rental income. And she has records showing  the 
property has only been vacant for two days between rentals  in the seven years  before the 
damage occurred. Based  on this information,  I can understand why Mrs F is confident  she 
would have been able to get another tenant quickly  and therefore be receiving rent. 
Mrs F has also told us that, once the repairs to the property were  completed, she put the 
property back on the rental market  and was able to obtain  a new tenant  within  a month.  She 
has provided a copy  of the tenancy agreement as evidence.
Ive thought about this issue very carefully. I appreciate L&G doesnt think it should pay as 
there wasnt a tenant when the damage  occurred. But the policy  doesnt  stipulate payment 
will only be made if a tenant is in place. From  looking at the evidence  provided I think its 
more likely Mrs Fs property would have  been rented out, had it not been  for the damage.  As 
Mrs F would have been in receipt  of a rental income  Im persuaded  that rent was due to her, 
as required by the policy terms. 
So, when taking  everything into consideration, I dont agree L&G has applied its terms in a 
fair and reasonable manner to her claim.  And it should therefore reconsider the claim.
putting things right
L&G should  settle Mrs Fs claim for loss of rent, subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. It should  also pay 8% simple interest from the date of the loss to the 
date of the settlement of the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Legal & General Insurance Limited  should put things right by doing  what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1807971