K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Ageas  Insurance Limited settled a claim under his car insurance 
policy without telling  him. And that Ageas hadnt  explained how he could buy back  the claim. 
Mr S also complained that Ageas prevented  him from seeing CCTV footage  of his accident.
background
Mr S was involved  in an accident  with a bus in October 2017. Ageas was contacted by the 
third partys  insurer  (TPI)  in November 2017  who said Mr S had caused damage  to the side 
door of the bus. Ageas told Mr S that the TPI was claiming against  him. Mr S gave details of 
the accident and said he didnt think he was at fault and said he wouldnt make  a claim. 
In November 2017 Ageas requested CCTV footage  of the accident from the TPI. Mr S 
contacted Ageas directly and through his broker  in early 2018 to find out what was 
happening with the claim.  Ageas told him it was awaiting the CCTV footage.  Mr S renewed 
his policy  with Ageas in February 2018,  at the time as the claim hadnt been  settled  it was 
recorded against him as a fault claim. 
Ageas said it received  the CCTV footage in early April 2018 and told Mr Ss broker  on 
12 April 2018 that it would  pay the third partys claim. Ageas said it told Mr Ss broker that it 
had paid the claim on 10 May 2018. Ageas said it also spoke to Mr S on 10 May and told 
him the claim cost £168 and that he could buy back the cost of the claim to avoid any effect 
on his No Claims Discount (NCD).  Ageas wrote  to Mr S on 5 June 2018 and said if he 
wanted to pay the £168  for the claim it could process a card payment over the phone.
Mr S requested the CCTV footage,  but Ageas declined. Mr S complained  to Ageas that it 
was unacceptable  that CCTV footage of him, which he hadnt consented to and which  had 
been used to determine blame for the accident,  was refused to him. He said if the third party  
wouldnt allow him to view the footage then it had no right to make a claim against  him. Mr S 
also complained  that Ageas decided liability for the claim and paid it without  his knowledge.  
Ageas said it wanted to provide the CCTV footage to Mr S, but it was owned by the third 
party who refused permission. Ageas said the footage showed that as the bus started  to 
pass Mr Ss car at the junction, his car had slightly passed the give way line on the minor 
road.  Ageas said the movement was limited  but enough to catch  the middle of the bus 
causing one of the side doors to shatter. Ageas said that under Mr Ss policy  it is entitled  to 
decide how a claim is settled and it was satisfied  its decision to accept  liability was correct.
Mr S said he called Ageas on 10 October  2018 and it was only then that Ageas told him how 
he could buy back the claim, which he did for £168.  Ageas  said it told Mr S that it would now 
re-set the claim as non-fault  and there  wouldnt be any impact  on his NCD. It said it told 
Mr S he could  get a refund of part of his premium from his broker.  Mr S said he requested 
the CCTV footage  again,  but Ageas told him the third party had refused its release to him. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Ageas didnt have 
permission to send  Mr S the CCTV footage,  or the stills from the footage that it provided  to 
us. She said the stills show Mr Ss car slightly forward of the give way line at a junction, then 
as the bus passes, his car moves forward. She said a still shows Mr Ss car immediately in 
front of bus doors and the next shows the glass door shattering.  She thought  the damage 
claimed by the third party aligned with the stills and Mr Ss description of the accident.
Ref: DRN11467832The adjudicator said that Ageas told Mr S and his broker about the settlement of the claim 
and buying  it back in April and May 2018.  She thought Mr S was aware of this option before 
he took it up in October  2018. She thought that Ageas had handled the claim reasonably  and 
in line with the policy terms.
Mr S disagreed. He said the regulations require businesses to communicate  with clients 
clearly and fairly, but Ageas  hadnt  been fair. He said Ageas paid the claim without telling 
him. And he said he would not have been aware that the claim had been  settled  had he not 
chased Ageas,  by which time he would have  missed the opportunity  to buy back  the claim.  
He said it was his broker, not Ageas who told him he could buy back  the claim.
Mr S said Ageas had a duty to advise him about his rights to the CCTV footage without  his 
having to contact the Information Commissioner's Office. But he said that as the adjudicator 
had seen the footage  he wouldnt  make a further request for it. He said the claim could have 
been settled far more  quickly and had Ageas done  so before his policy renewed, he would 
have received an additional  discount.  Mr S requested an ombudsman  review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint.  I know this will disappoint him, but I hope the reasons Im about to 
give will help him to understand  why Ive reached  this conclusion.
Mr S is unhappy that Ageas accepted liability for the third partys claim. Its not my role to 
decide who was actually at fault for an accident. Instead, I must  look at whether, in reaching 
its decision to accept  liability, Ageas acted fairly and reasonably.  
The terms of Mr Ss policy allow  Ageas to defend  and settle  a claim as it sees fit. It doesnt 
need Mr Ss approval  of any decision to admit liability,  settle a claim or make a payment to a 
third party. This term is found  in most  car insurance  policies and we look to see if a business 
has done so in a fair and reasonable way. 
Ive gone on to look at the evidence in this case to see if, in making its decision, Ageas acted 
fairly and reasonably. Ageas said that Mr S edged  forward  from a side junction into a bus 
that was passing and damaged the side door.  Ive seen the accident descriptions and the 
stills from the CCTV footage. And Im satisfied that Ageas considered  these and the CCTV 
footage in reaching its decision  on liability for the accident.  I think it was fair and reasonable 
for Ageas to accept liability from the information available. I dont think  Mr S has provided 
any compelling evidence  that challenges  Ageass  decision about the claim.
 
Mr S said that Ageas  had a duty to inform him of his rights to the CCTV footage. Mr S has 
acknowledged that Ageas  didnt own the footage and wasnt  the data controller. From what 
Ive seen Ageas made best efforts to obtain the footage for Mr S but could only pass on the 
declined permission for this from the third party. I wouldnt have  expected Ageas to have 
done anything  further about  this. The Information Commissioners Office  is the appropriate 
body to consider  data access  and Mr S said hes been in contact with them.
Mr S said Ageas didnt  explain  his right to buy back the claim until it was too late for him to 
benefit from a discount  he wouldve been  offered  when he renewed his policy . I understand 
that Mr Ss premium was adjusted by his broker when he bought back  the claim. Ageas told 
us that any discount potentially  available  at renewal would have been provided by Mr Ss 
broker and not Ageas.  I think  its open to Mr S to take this up with his broker if he wishes.
Ref: DRN11467833Mr S has said that Ageas  accepted liability for the claim without telling  him. Ive looked at 
Ageass records of Mr Ss claim  and listened to the call recordings. Ageas was made aware  
of a claim by the third party  in November 2017. The TPI told Ageas it would send it the 
CCTV footage. However, Ageas sent reminders to the TPI in February and March 2018.  I 
can see that Mr S made calls to Ageas and his broker to gain updates about the claim. 
Ageass records show  it received the footage on 5 April 2018, and contacted  Mr Ss broker 
to confirm this on 6 April 2018. Its records show that it called Mr Ss broker on 12 April 2018 
and said it had viewed  the footage and would be paying the third partys  claim. I dont think  
Ageas caused  delay  in gathering and considering the evidence  about the accident.
Mr Ss broker called Ageas on 10 May 2018 and was told the claim had been paid and 
closed and that Mr S could buy back the claim if he wished. Mr S called Ageas the same day 
and from the recording  Ageass adviser  says it may be worth Mr S buying back the claim.
Mr S said that he knows this and may well do so. Ageas wrote to Mr S on 5 June  2018  and 
said that if he called it could process  a card payment to buy back  the claim. Ageas told Mr S 
this would prevent  any impact on his NCD.
Im satisfied that once  Ageas received the CCTV footage it gave Mr S clear information 
about the liability and buying  back of the claim. Its not clear  to me why Mr S waited until 
October 2018 to buy back the claim,  but I dont think Ageas was to blame for the delay. 
Ageas has confirmed to us that the claim is now recorded on the claims database  as non-
fault, with zero claim costs. This means  Mr Ss NCD hasnt been  affected. 
Mr S has said he involved  his broker in dealing with Ageas as this might  be more effective. I 
think it was reasonable  therefore for Ageas to tell Mr Ss broker about its receipt of the CCTV; 
its decision to settle the claim and his option to buy back the claim. I think Ageas gave clear 
information about settling the claim to Mr S and his broker  in April, May and June 2018. And 
Im satisfied that Ageas handled the claim against Mr S fairly and in accordance with his 
policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1146783