K822xcomplaint
Ms Ms complaint is about three instalment  loans she took with Gain  Credit LLC  trading as 
Lending Stream. She says these loans  were unaffordable. 
background 
Lending Stream provided Ms M with three  instalment  loans between  January 2016 and 
September 2017. Our adjudicator thought Lending Stream hadnt  done anything wrong when 
providing Ms M with the first two loans. But they thought that Lending  Stream  shouldnt have 
provided loan 3 to Ms M. So, they partially  upheld Ms Ms complaint.
Lending Stream accepted our adjudicators view. But Ms M disagreed. She thought  her 
whole complaint should have been  upheld. As Ms M disagreed  with our adjudicator, the case  
was passed for an ombudsmans decision. 
As both parties already  agree Ms M shouldnt have been given loan 3, this decision is only 
looking at whether Ms M should  have been  provided with loans one and two.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought  about all of this, I think that what Lending Stream  has already 
agreed to do put things  right for Ms M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case. So, I dont  think Lending Stream has treated Ms M unfairly or that it should pay her any 
more compensation.  Id like to explain  why I think this is the case.
Ms M was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Lending  Stream 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is 
that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Ms M before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream says it relied on what Ms M said about having a monthly disposable income 
which was enough  to comfortably make the repayments to loans 1 and 2. And based on all 
of this it thought  it was reasonable  to provide these loans. On the other hand, Ms M says her 
financial history demonstrated that she was in financial difficulty as she was using her 
overdraft and was paying back other lenders in-between borrowing from Lending Stream. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Ms M and Lending Stream  have said. 
Ref: DRN19218922Its important to note that when Ms M applied for her first two loans, she had no previous 
borrowing history with Lending Stream. And I cant see anything to suggest that Lending  
Stream had reason to question the information  Ms M had provided. Ive also seen what     
Ms M has said about the effect making the payments to these loans had on her finances. But 
Ms M was provided with instalment loans where  she was required to make payments over a 
few months. she wasnt required to settle the loans in full when she next got paid in the way 
that she might have had to if shed had a payday loan. 
I accept that Ms M ended  up paying  loan 1 early making quite a large payment to settle the 
entire balance. But as Ms M chose to make  this payment and then take out the further  loans 
soon after,  its difficult for me to say that the scheduled payments were  demonstrably 
unsustainable and that they then forced Ms M into taking further loans. Of course, a 
borrower taking out instalment loans, and then repaying them in this way can sometimes  be 
an indication  of an underlying problem. But Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me 
that that was more  likely than not the case here.  And, in any event,  I dont think  its the case 
that Lending Stream ought  reasonably to have  been  aware of this by the time of loan two 
either. 
Taking all this together, I dont think the pattern of lending  had become demonstrably 
unsustainable or harmful  such that I could reasonably say the facts  spoke  for themselves 
by the time of loan 2. In my view, there might have been some warning signs, but I think its 
only by the time of loan 3 Lending Stream  ought fairly and reasonably to have realised an 
emerging pattern had become established and the lending was demonstrably  unsustainable. 
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything, Im not upholding the complaint 
about loans 1 and 2. And it follows Im satisfied  that what Lending Stream has already 
agreed to do (in terms of putting things right for loan 3) is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ms case.   
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I think what Gain Credit LLC has already agreed to do to 
put things right for Ms M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint and I 
dont ask it to do any more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1921892