complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained to TenetLime Ltd (TenetLime) about  mortgage advice they 
say was given  to them by 1994 Limited  (1994) in 2009.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2019  a copy of which  is 
attached and forms part of this decision.
I concluded that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld in part.  I explained why 
TenetLime should compensate Mr and Mrs H for the initial mortgage advice they were given, 
but was not persuaded  that TenetLime could  be held responsible for additional borrowing they 
took soon after.
TenetLime responded accepting my provisional  decision.
Represented by a firm of solicitors, Mr and Mrs H didnt entirely agree and made  a number of 
detailed points for my further consideration.  I havent repeated all the representations here, 
but have taken everything into account  and summarised some of the key points below:
They agree  with my conclusions that the initial mortgage  was unsuitable and should be 
upheld.
They believe the wider investment  advice  should be considered, including  the losses 
for the investment reservation  fee and administration  charges they paid.
The way that the investment worked means that mortgage advice was embedded into 
the sales process.
The Harlequin 100%  Finance Scheme required that they obtained mortgage borrowing 
to proceed with the investment, and this supports the position that they received 
mortgage advice  from 1994 in order to facilitate the second Harlequin investment.
1994 was heavily involved in the process  to obtain a further advance  and the evidence  
supports the fact advice was given.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having  done so, my conclusions  largely  remain in line 
with those set out in my provisional decision.
I should start by saying  that I thank Mr and Mrs H for the level of detail they have provided in 
making their representations.  I have taken account of everything in reaching my decision, but 
will only refer to the points  I feel it is necessary to here.
I set out the reasons why I consider the initial mortgage of £29,000 was unsuitable for Mr and 
Mrs H in my provisional decision.   Both parties  agreed to accept that conclusion, but Mr and 
Mrs H have raised concerns about  further  losses associated with the Harlequin  investment 
that was made at the same  time.
In my provisional decision,  to put things  right, I stated that TenetLime should pay several sums 
of money relating to the initial mortgage and its set up.  I concluded that it wasnt  necessary to 
consider the investment made with the initial  mortgage  proceeds. Mr and Mrs H have pointed 
out that they also paid a £1,000 reservation fee for the investment on the basis of using those 
mortgage funds.   Having given further  consideration to that point, I consider it fair and 
reasonable for TenetLime to also compensate Mr and Mrs H for that reservation fee.
Ref: DRN1326820I note that they are also claiming other losses including  fees to later combine the two 
mortgages and for early  redemption.  Ive considered the fees, and appreciate that whilst some 
are likely to be in relation  to the initial mortgage,  the larger proportion were  in relation to the 
further advance.  So having reviewed everything  in the round, I consider  it fair and reasonable 
to not make  an award for those additional  sums.
The majority of the submissions made  in Mr and Mrs Hs response were in relation to the 
further advance, which  they took two months  after the initial  mortgage  and used to make a 
second investment  in Harlequin.
Mr and Mrs H say that although there is no record  of advice or suitability for the further 
advance, 1994 arranged  the appointment with the lender and coached  them  what to say.  
They state that the acts of 1994  at the time equate to mortgage advice, and so our Service  can 
consider the mortgage and linked investment into Harlequin.
I set out my thoughts on this issue in the provisional  decision, and I agree  that its finely  
balanced. I understand that 1994  received  substantial commission  for the second investment 
in Harlequin, and so had a vested interest  in a further mortgage being  obtained. But overall I 
remain of the conclusion that no mortgage  advice was given.
Much of the further  evidence provided by Mr and Mrs H relates to the second investment in 
Harlequin and the fact that the business model  set out illustrations for 100% finance to fund 
the investment.   I understand this and have seen the operation  of this business model in a 
number of complaints.   As explained  in my provisional decision, I am certain 1994 knew  Mr 
and Mrs H were  getting a further advance on their mortgage to fund the deposit, and agree its 
likely the adviser helped arrange  the mortgage.   But helping to facilitate a mortgage and 
arranging a meeting with the lender does not mean  that advice was given.
Its important that I make  Mr and Mrs H aware that I have given this issue  particular 
consideration, and have  done so impartially based upon the evidence  available to me.  Having  
done so, I remain  persuaded by the reasons  set out in the provisional decision.  Whilst I 
understand Mr and Mrs H feel strongly  that they were coached  about what to say to the 
lender, I dont feel that is sufficient for me to say there was advice or uphold  this part of the 
complaint.
Santander would have asked and verified a variety of information with Mr and Mrs H for the 
further advance   as this was the purpose  of the meeting taking place.  I would  expect Mr and 
Mrs H to have any questions openly as was required of them.  But  given the time which has 
passed I appreciate  it will be difficult to recollect  the specifics of what  was discussed.   In fact, 
in the early submissions  made to our Service Mr and Mrs H stated:
We were  advised that the only way to raise the £51,500 deposit would be to obtain a further  
advance from our current provider, Abbey.  He coached us in what to say.  We cannot recall  
how the process went from this point.   We cant remember if we attended Abbeys branch or 
organised everything  over the telephone.
This suggests to me that as there  was such a considerable amount of activity  going on within  a 
short space of time, I cant reasonably rely upon  recollections about the specifics  of what  
happened.
So overall Im unable to conclude  mortgage  advice was given in respect of the further 
advance.
Ref: DRN1326820It is clear, however, that 1994  was involved in the second Harlequin investment  Mr and Mrs H 
made with the proceeds from the further  mortgage advance.   Part  of that involvement was 
looking at the source  of investment funds  and the expected  returns from that investment. 
However that was unregulated investment advice, and as Ive concluded  there was no 
mortgage advice  given by 1994,  then Im unable to say TenetLime is responsible  for the 
advice in relation  to the second  Harlequin investment.
putting things right
I set out what I considered to be a fair and reasonable  means of redress  in my provisional  
decision.  Having  reviewed everything  provided  in response to that decision, I believe that 
remains correct for the most part.
But for the reasons set out above, I am also directing TenetLime to compensate Mr and Mrs H 
for the £1,000 reservation fee they paid for the first Harlequin investment.
TenetLime should pay to Mr and Mrs H the following:
A) £29,000 to represent the initial borrowing taken on an interest-only  basis.
B)  The interest payments Mr and Mrs H paid to service the £29,000 borrowing less any 
contributions made to those payments made by Harlequin.
C)  The set up costs incurred when  arranging the initial £29,000 mortgage, and any 
mortgage interest applied to that sum.
D)  The £1,000 reservation  fee Mr and Mrs H paid to secure the initial  Harlequin  
investment.
E)  8% simple interest per annum on A from 6 June 2014  to the date of settlement to 
compensate Mr and Mrs H for being  deprived  of the funds they would have had upon 
selling the property had they not had to redeem the mortgage, and so would otherwise 
have had the benefit of.
F)  8% simple interest per annum on the amounts calculated at B from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement, to compensate  Mr and Mrs H for being  deprived of 
funds they would otherwise have had the benefit  of.
G)  8% simple interest per annum on the amount calculated at C from 6 April 2014 to 
the date of settlement,  to compensate Mr and Mrs H for being deprived  of funds they 
would otherwise have had the benefit of.
H) 8% simple interest per annum  on the £1,000 reservation fee set out at D above 
from the date it was paid to the date of settlement, to compensate Mr and Mrs H for 
being deprived of funds they would  otherwise  have  had the benefit of.
I) £750 for the trouble  and upset Mr and Mrs H experienced as a result  of having a 
mortgage debt against their home  which they had no means of repaying without 
ultimately having to sell the property.
I understand that Mr and Mrs H have  expressed concerns about the possibility of having to 
repay any payments  they received from Harlequin,  and state those sums should not be 
deducted from any award payable to them. I have considered this point but think  it unlikely 
that they will be asked  to return those funds,  and in the interests  of bringing finality to both 
Ref: DRN1326820parties, I consider it fair and reasonable for the relevant  payments received  from Harlequin 
to be deducted from the compensation as set out above.
For the purposes of putting  things right, Ive also worked on the basis  that the initial Harlequin 
investment has a nil value. If this situation  changes or if any funds are distributed in relation 
to the initial Harlequin deposit at a later date, TenetLime will be entitled to those  funds. 
TenetLime may request that Mr and Mrs H either assign  the investment to it, or give an 
undertaking that they will transfer any future benefit  to it. TenetLime  must pay any costs 
associated with any such assignment or undertaking.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in part. To put things  right, 
TenetLime Ltd should pay them the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 December  2019. 
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1326820COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained to TenetLime Ltd (TenetLime) about  mortgage advice  they say was 
given to them by 1994  Limited (1994) in 2009.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out interest-only mortgage borrowing,  and then a subsequent further advance, 
against their home.  The proceeds  of the borrowing were used to invest in overseas  off-plan 
developments with Harlequin Properties (Harlequin).
The Harlequin  investments failed and Mr and Mrs H lost their money and were left without means  of 
repaying the mortgages. They say that 1994 gave them the advice  to borrow  and invest and that was 
unsuitable.
At the time the mortgages  were taken out in 2009, 1994 was an appointed representative of a 
business which TenetLime is now responsible for, and so thats why its now dealing with Mr and Mrs 
Hs complaint.
The complaint was initially  reviewed by an investigator, and both parties provided further information. A 
second investigator then reviewed the complaint  and recommended that it be upheld in part. In 
summary, he said that the initial  mortgage  advice given to Mr and Mrs H was unsuitable,  but he wasnt 
persuaded 1994 gave advice for the further advance as the application  was made  directly to the lender.
The investigator said the initial mortgage was unsuitable  as 1994 likely  knew both Mr and Mrs H would 
be retired and could not afford  the mortgage  payments.
TenetLime disagreed with some of the investigators  conclusions and responded with a number of 
points.  In summary,  it said:
The 1994  adviser who gave the initial  mortgage  advice  was not aware  Mrs H was due to retire 
soon. The fact find completed at the time stated she intended to retire at age 65.
As the adviser understood Mrs H would  be in employment until age 65, it was correct of him to 
assess affordability on that basis.
When Mr and Mrs H subsequently  re-mortgaged in 2013, they stated that they had sufficient  
means to repay  the mortgage.
The further  mortgage  application made to the lender  in 2009 also stated that Mrs H
was intending to retire at age 65 (as opposed  to imminently).
Mr and Mrs H had corrected other inaccuracies  on the application for further lending, and so its 
reasonable to think they would  have corrected the planned retirement date if it wasnt due to be 
age 65.
1994  did not advise  Mr and Mrs H in relation  to the further  advance, and they went direct  to 
the lender.
Had 1994  provided  advice in relation  to the further advance,  there would  be suitability  records, 
such as those  which  exist for the initial mortgage.
Mr and Mrs H also disagreed with some of the conclusions reached by the investigator,  and further 
comments were  provided by them directly, and the solicitors representing them also.
In summary  they said:
They  agree that 1994  did something wrong  and they should  be compensated for the initial 
mortgage advice.
Ref: DRN1326820The investment advice was intrinsically linked  to the mortgage advice,  particularly as the 
Harlequin investment was the intended repayment  vehicle  for the interest only borrowing.
There is sufficient evidence  to suggest 1994 did provide advice about  the further advance  on 
the balance of probability.
1994  did advise them  to take the further advance, and it was in its interest to do so as it would  
receive significant  commission from the Harlequin investment.
1994  obtained a decision in-principle and then arranged the meeting  for Mr and Mrs H to 
attend the local Santander  office to meet with its mortgage adviser.
They  were told that Santander should not need any detail but if asked, should 
confirm nothing had changed since their application  for the initial mortgage.
Everything stems back to the initial advice provided by 1994, and the further 
advance would not have  been approved  were it not for false statements made 
by 1994 on the application for the original mortgage.
They  are concerned that the Santander  records indicated that a broker named 
Lancashire Mortgage  and Insurance Services Ltd was involved in the 
application for the further advance. This suggests 1994  provided that name to 
Santander to ensure the application was approved and without linking 1994 to it 
directly.
They  redeemed  the mortgages on 6 June  2014  by selling their house  to their 
daughter. Had the money been available to them from that date, they would 
have had access  to those funds and so should be awarded 8% interest for 
deprived of that opportunity.
Its likely  that the Harlequin liquidator  will claim back any payments  received 
from Harlequin to service the mortgage interest before any assignment of the 
investment contracts could  be made to TenetLime. So it would  be wrong to 
deduct those amounts from any compensation awarded.
As no agreement  could be reached,  it was requested that the complaint be passed for a fresh  
review by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN1326820my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should point  out that I understand  Mr and Mrs H say 1994 provided  them with advice  in relation to 
the mortgage and re-mortgage, and the Harlequin  investments also. In the investigators 
assessment he explained that he was not considering  any investment advice  as Mr and Mrs Hs 
representatives had requested him not to. They had confirmed that alternative legal options were 
being considered in relation to that.
However, since that time Mr and Mrs H have made representations about  the investment advice and 
how it was intrinsically  linked to the mortgage. So as part of my review  Ive taken that into account.
the initial mortgage
Following advice from 1994,  Mr and Mrs H took out an initial mortgage for £29,000  on an interest-
only basis over a nine-year term. TenetLime doesnt dispute this, but considers that the mortgage 
was suitable for their recorded circumstances.
The obligations placed upon the adviser when considering Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage options were  
set out in the Mortgage  Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (MCOB) that applied at the time.  As the 
mortgage was taken out on their residential  property it was a regulated mortgage contract.
Under MCOB 4.7.2R a regulated mortgage  contract  is suitable if having regard  to the facts disclosed  
by the customer and other relevant facts about the customer  of which the firm is or should  be 
reasonably aware,  it had reasonable grounds to conclude that:
-    the customer can afford  to enter  into the regulated mortgage contract;
-    it is appropriate  for the needs and circumstances  of the customer; and
-    it is the most suitable of those that the firm has available to it.
MCOB 4.7.8G states that a firm was generally  entitled to rely upon the information provided by a 
customer unless taking a common sense approach it had reason to doubt  it.
The key issue here is whether the mortgage was affordable and appropriate for the needs of Mr and 
Mrs H.  So  the issue for me to decide  is what the 1994 adviser understood to be the case in relation 
to Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances.
At the time the initial mortgage was taken  out Mr H was already retired and that was recorded  
correctly on the mortgage  application. Mrs H was recorded as being in full time employment with a 
planned retirement age of 65. This would  mean the term of the interest only mortgage would have 
come to an end before  Mrs H would be due to retire,  and so was affordable  and appropriate  for their 
circumstances.
The actual position was that Mrs H retired within a few months, and so her income dropped. Mr and 
Mrs H say that the 1994 adviser knew that Mrs H actually planned to retire,  but TenetLime 
disagrees. It says that the adviser thought Mrs H planned to retire at 65 as thats what  was 
recorded and it was reasonable for him to rely upon  that. It says this is reinforced  by the fact that 
Mr and Mrs H also confirmed the same information to Santander when they took out the further 
advance soon  after.
I understand  the point made  by TenetLime  and consider  it to be a finely balanced  issue. But overall 
Im persuaded  that the adviser likely  did know Mrs H would soon be retiring.
Ref: DRN13268208Our investigator pointed out Mr and Mrs H were  also dealing with a second adviser at 1994,  and Ive 
seen evidence of an email  to that adviser in which it asked How will both [Mrs H] and I being  retired 
affect our ability to get a mortgage?.
TenetLime states  this doesnt actually confirm Mrs H was due to be retiring so soon, and the email 
was not sent to the adviser who completed the mortgage  application.  Whilst this is so, Mr and Mrs H 
were clearly being upfront about the prospect of retirement and the fact they felt it could affect the 
mortgage suggests she intended to retire within the term of the mortgage.  Also,  the fact they were 
asking a question about the mortgage to the second adviser demonstrates to me that the two 1994 
advisers were working closely together.
Given that Mr and Mrs H were asking  about how retirement would affect the mortgage, and the fact 
Mrs H did retire so soon  afterwards, I think its likely on balance it was always the intention. And the 
fact they were speaking freely about it, Im persuaded on balance that it wouldve  been something the 
mortgage adviser  was aware of. Particularly  if the second  adviser wasnt dealing with the mortgage, 
Id likely expect that he referred  the question (or at least mentioned it) to his colleague who was 
giving the mortgage  advice.
So I consider the mortgage  adviser shouldve  taken that into account when giving  advice  and had 
he done so, then I believe  he wouldve  concluded  the mortgage to be unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H 
to maintain. My conclusion on this is that the advice for Mr and Mrs H to take out the initial 
mortgage was unsuitable,  because  the adviser likely knew about Mrs Hs planned retirement, or at 
least had reason to doubt it would be at age 65.
Ive considered the argument that Mr and Mrs H accepted the information  on the mortgage 
application, but irrespective,  I dont consider  that to release  the 1994  adviser from his obligations 
when giving advice.
the further advance
Soon after the initial  mortgage Mr and Mrs H increased  their borrowing  by taking a further  advance of 
£51,500 from Santander. The information submitted  on that application was the same as had been 
provided for the initial mortgage. However unlike  for the initial mortgage, Mr and Mrs H had a 
meeting with Santander and the application  stated that they did not receive  any advice.
Mr and Mrs H and their representatives  say that advice was given  to them by 1994, and the meeting 
with Santander was arranged  for them.  They  say the adviser told them what  to say to Santander 
and effectively  managed the process.
Its clear that 1994 were  dealing with Mr and Mrs H at the time of the further advance, and had a 
vested interest in Mr and Mrs H obtaining  the funds  as the second Harlequin  investment was 
dependent upon the further advance.
There is no documentation to show the mortgage  was recommended by 1994, and the paperwork 
shows that Mr and Mrs H were making the application directly  to Santander.  So although I agree 
1994 were  involved with helping Mr and Mrs H make arrangements, Im not persuaded  on balance 
that it was advice that was actually given. There was no commission paid to 1994 in relation  to the 
further advance, the paperwork said no advice was given,  and the fact a meeting took place with 
Santander directly in person supports this. Mr and Mrs H had a responsibility and opportunity to 
discuss their mortgage needs with Santander directly.
I also note Mr and Mrs Hs concerns that Santanders  records show the introduction  for the further 
advance came from another business called  Lancashire Mortgage and Insurance  Services.  I 
havent seen any other reference to this business and so I cant  be certain if its an error, or the 
referral to Santander was made by the adviser with a different hat on. But either  way, that is not a 
business which TenetLime is responsible for, and so I dont feel I can reasonably say its 
responsible for the further mortgage advance now.
Ref: DRN13268209investment  advice
Mr and Mrs H have explained that they were given advice  to invest in Harlequin by 1994.  They  said 
that advice was potentially unlawful as selling  investment products was outside of the authorisation  
1994 had as an appointed representative, but it was intrinsically linked  to the mortgage advice  and 
so falls within  the jurisdiction  of our Service to consider.
TenetLime has disputed that its responsible for any investment advice Mr and Mrs H may have 
been given by 1994.
I agree its possible  that our Service  can in some circumstances look at unregulated acts 
omissions if they are sufficiently  linked to a regulated act or omission which  a principal business  
(in this case  TenetLime) has accepted  responsibility  for. This is something Ive considered.
As Ive concluded  the initial mortgage advice was unsuitable and will be setting  out what  TenetLime 
needs to do to compensate  Mr and Mrs H and put things right, its not necessary for me to consider 
the investment  made using  the initial  mortgage proceeds.
Ive thought about advice  Mr and Mrs H may have been given in relation  to the second investment. 
As I have concluded that TenetLime is not responsible for the further mortgage advance, Im unable 
to consider whether the advice to invest is linked to the mortgage.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H have been badly let down  by their investment in Harlequin, and 
understand their frustration about the dealings they had with 1994. But, as Mr and Mrs H have  
acknowledged in their submissions, 1994 wasnt allowed to provide investment advice  under its 
appointed representative authorisation. So I cant  now hold TenetLime  responsible for that advice.
putting things right
To put things right TenetLime  should  compensate  Mr and Mrs H and put them in the position they 
would have likely been had they not been advised to take the initial  mortgage. Im aware that Mr and 
Mrs H feel this should include the further advance used to invest  in Harlequin. But as Ive concluded  
TenetLime is not responsible  for the further advance, I consider redress in relation to the initial 
mortgage would be fair and reasonable.
Since the investigators assessment, Mr and Mrs H have  clarified that they redeemed the 
mortgage on 6 June 2014 by selling their house. So what I have set out reflects that. 
TenetLime should pay to Mr and Mrs H the following:
A)  £29,000  to represent  the initial borrowing taken  on an interest-only  basis.
B)  The interest  payments Mr and Mrs H paid to service the £29,000 borrowing less any 
contributions made  to those payments made by Harlequin.
C)  The set up costs  incurred when arranging the initial  £29,000 mortgage,  and any 
mortgage interest applied to that sum.
D)  8% simple interest per annum on A from 6 June 2014  to the date of settlement to 
compensate Mr and Mrs H for being  deprived  of the funds they would have had upon selling the 
property had they not had to redeem  the mortgage,  and so would otherwise have had the 
benefit of.
Ref: DRN132682010E)  8% simple interest per annum on the amounts calculated at B from the date of each  
payment to the date of settlement, to compensate Mr and Mrs H for being  deprived of funds they 
would otherwise have had the benefit  of.
F)  8% simple interest per annum on the amount calculated at C from 6 April 2014 to the date 
of settlement, to compensate Mr and Mrs H for being deprived of funds  they would otherwise 
have had the benefit of.
G) £750  for the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs H experienced as a result of having  a 
mortgage debt against their home which they had no means of repaying without ultimately 
having to sell the property.
I understand  that Mr and Mrs H have expressed concerns about the possibility of having to repay 
any payments  they received  from Harlequin, and state those sums should  not be deducted from 
any award payable to them. I have considered this point but think  it unlikely  that they will be asked 
to return those  funds, and in the interests of bringing finality to both parties, I consider it fair and 
reasonable for the relevant payments received  from Harlequin to be deducted from the 
compensation as set out above.
For the purposes of putting things right,  Ive also worked  on the basis that the Harlequin  investment 
has a nil value. If this situation changes or if any funds are distributed in relation to the Harlequin  
deposit at a later date, TenetLime will be entitled to those funds. TenetLime may request that Mr and 
Mrs H either assign the investment to it, or give an undertaking that they will transfer any future 
benefit to it. TenetLime must pay any costs associated with any such assignment or undertaking.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against TenetLime Ltd. To put things 
right it should pay them the compensation  set out above.
Ref: DRN1326820