K822xcomplaint
Mr Ss complaint arises  out of a business protection policy sold to him by Peacock Insurance  
Services Limited (Peacock). 
Mr S says the policy was mis-sold.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in May 2019, part of which  is copied below:
In April 2014 Mr S bought a business  protection policy from Peacock. In September  2015 
he had cause to make a claim  on that policy. The claim was for cover to defend  a claim 
made against him for personal injury to some  of his customers. The injuries  were  alleged to 
have been sustained whilst his customers were engaged in a leisure activity Mr Ss business 
offers.
The underwriter of that policy considered that claim and concluded the policy  excluded  the 
circumstances in which it had been made in. Specifically they said they wouldnt indemnify 
Mr S in respect of any loss that is caused by one participant to another  or one member  to 
another. 
Mr S made a complaint to our service about this. In a decision of todays date I said that the 
underwriter had correctly  applied the exclusion set out in his policy.
In this complaint,  Mr S says that Peacock  mis-sold the policy  to him because the exclusion is 
one that would have a significant impact on his business. He says the nature of the leisure 
activity he offers always involves more  than one participant or member.  So he shouldve 
been sold a policy that didnt exclude  cover for that.
Our investigator considered Mr Ss complaint and concluded that it should  be upheld  
because he didnt think the policy sold to him was suitable to his needs. Peacock says the 
policy was sold with limited verbal disclosure  so it was for Mr S to satisfy himself that the 
insurance was what  he needed. Because of this the matter has been passed  to me to 
decide. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  that Mr Ss 
complaint should  be upheld  but for slightly different  reasons to those given by the 
investigator.
The policy was sold to Mr S in three parts;  a quotation was provided  by telephone and 
information was then sent to him by email. Mr S then called up to discuss that quotation. Ive 
listened to call recordings for those two calls but part of the initial  call recording  is missing. 
So I dont  have an accurate record of precisely  what was said to Mr S about the cover when 
he asked for a quotation. But based  on everything  Ive seen and heard, I think  the policy  was 
sold to Mr S on a non-advised basis. That means  that Peacock didnt need to make sure it 
was suitable for his needs and circumstances,  but they did need  to ensure they gave Mr S 
enough information to make a decision about  whether to take it out.
Ref: DRN15428072Peacock say their policies  are sold with limited verbal disclosure so its up to their customers  
to consider the documents  sent to them  and make a decision about whether to take them 
out. Ive considered the documents that were sent to Mr S and the exclusion  that prevented 
him from making a successful claim on his policy. 
The exclusion is contained  in the policy schedule. It says:
The COMPANY will not indemnify the INSURED in respect of any loss that
(d) is caused by one participant to another participant and or a member  to another member
I accept that the nature  of Mr Ss business was a leisure activity  that involved more  than one 
participant being engaged  in physical activity at the same time, I think  this exclusion was a 
significant term. Because of this Peacock needed  to draw it to Mr Ss attention.
Theres nothing in the call recordings that suggests Peacock did this so I have  to consider 
whether the term was drawn to Mr Ss attention in the documents he was sent. And I dont  
think it was. Theres nothing listed in the significant  features and benefits of the policy that 
make this clear. And its not until Mr S accepted the quotation that he was sent a policy  
schedule. The exclusion appears several pages into that schedule.  So I dont think  it was 
drawn to Mr Ss attention before he agreed  to purchase the policy. 
Peacock say that Mr S didnt seek to cancel his policy when  he received the policy  schedule.  
But I dont think that matters. The duty on Peacock was to ensure Mr S had enough 
information to enable him to decide whether to take the insurance, not whether to cancel it. 
But even if Peacock had presented that information to Mr S in the same  way they did after 
the policy was sold, I dont think they wouldve done  enough to draw the exclusion to his 
attention. Thats because that information  wasnt sufficiently prominent. It appeared several 
pages into the policy schedule and some  15 pages  into a bundle  of documents  sent to him. 
Given what Ive said above, I also need to decide  what action Mr S wouldve taken had the 
exclusion been drawn to his attention. When thinking about this Ive taken into account what 
happened when  Mr S received the quotation.  In the second call recording Ive heard Ive 
noted that Mr S queried things that are and arent covered. In particular he asked what one 
of the terms about  his equipment meant. Whilst he was given an explanation that satisfied 
him, he was keen for Peacock  to confirm this to him in writing.  This suggests to me that he 
was cautious about the risks he was taking  and wanted to be certain hed be covered for a 
number of eventualities.
And given  the nature  of Mr Ss business was a physical leisure activity  involving more than 
one participant,  I think its unlikely  he wouldve taken  the policy  if he knew  cover  for claims 
for loss in this situation was excluded. Because of this I need to think about whether Mr S 
wouldve found a policy to cover him for these  risks either through  Peacock or elsewhere.
Mr Ss business isnt the only one of its kind. And there are riskier leisure activities which 
involve multiple  participants that I think cover can be provided  for. I think  that Mr S wouldve 
looked to ensure he was covered for claims for loss arising out of the activity he offered and 
that its likely  he wouldve done  so.  Its possible that Peacock wouldve been able to source 
this for him themselves.  That means that the claims turned down  by Mr Ss insurer  wouldnt 
have been excluded. Because of this I think Peacock should  comply with my award of fair 
compensation set out below.
Ref: DRN15428073fair compensation
Step into the shoes  of the insurer and consider the claims against Mr S as if participant 
to participant cover  was in place, subject to the remaining terms of the policy  that Mr S 
purchased;
If Mr Ss claims do fulfil the remaining terms of the policy  then Peacock should cover  the 
costs of Mr S defending  the actions against  him (subject  to any ongoing terms) by 
funding his insurers costs  in conducting these  claims or by paying  Mr Ss reasonable 
costs in defending them himself; 
Pay Mr S £300 for the inconvenience caused to him as a result  of his claim being  
declined when he had a reasonable expectation that claims of that nature shouldve 
been covered.  As a consequence of this hes had to deal with these claims himself when 
his insurer refused to fund them.  
If Peacock  do pay Mr Ss reasonable costs  in defending the claims made against him and 
some of that involves reimbursing him for legal costs hes already incurred then they should 
also pay him interest at 8% per year simple* on any sums hes paid to date, until theyre 
reimbursed. This is subject to Mr S providing  evidence of having  paid those  costs  himself.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
developments
I asked both parties to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional  decision. 
Both parties  have responded.  Peacock  has said they have nothing further to add. Mr S has 
expressed some concern  about my provisional award of fair compensation. He says that 
Peacock could still seek to avoid defending  the claims against him by relying on a different 
policy term. He feels this would lead to his having  to make another  complaint to this service 
which would ultimately  leave him in the position  of defending the claims against him without 
the benefit of insurance cover. Because of this Mr S has asked if I could instead  direct 
Peacock to make a compensation payment to him equivalent  to the costs of defending  
similar High Court claims.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Mr Ss complaint should be upheld with an award  of fair compensation as set out within  my 
provisional decision.
I understand Mr Ss concerns and I sympathise  with them. But I cant guarantee that his 
claim would be covered under the policy terms, even if the exclusion the underwriter relied 
on isnt applied. Thats because  I cant  foresee every eventuality  that might  occur once 
Peacock do step into his insurers  shoes-  both with regard  to the claims against Mr S and 
how the remaining  terms of the policy would apply  to them.
Ref: DRN15428074And it wouldnt be fair for me to direct Peacock to simply pay Mr Ss costs  in defending the 
claims against him. The correct and appropriate award is for Peacock to consider the claim 
as the underwriter would have  as if participant  to participant cover was in place, subject to 
the remaining  terms of the policy.
That having  been said, I think its unlikely that any other obvious exclusions would apply to 
Mr Ss claims. And Id expect Peacock to treat Mr S fairly when considering  his claims under 
the remaining  terms of the policy.
fair compensation
For the reasons  set out above and within my provisional decision, Peacock should:
Step into the shoes  of the insurer and consider the claims against Mr S as if participant 
to participant cover  was in place, subject to the remaining terms of the policy  that Mr S 
purchased;
If Mr Ss claims do fulfil the remaining terms of the policy  then Peacock should cover  the 
costs of Mr S defending  the actions against  him (subject  to any ongoing terms) by 
funding his insurers costs  in conducting these  claims or by paying  Mr Ss reasonable 
costs in defending them himself; 
Pay Mr S £300 for the inconvenience caused to him as a result  of his claim being  
declined when he had a reasonable expectation that claims of that nature shouldve 
been covered.  As a consequence of this hes had to deal with these claims himself when 
his insurer refused to fund them.  
If Peacock  do pay Mr Ss reasonable costs  in defending the claims made against him and 
some of that involves reimbursing him for legal costs hes already incurred then they should 
also pay him interest at 8% per year simple* on any sums hes paid to date, until theyre 
reimbursed. This is subject to Mr S providing  evidence of having  paid those  costs  himself.
 
* I understand that Peacock is required to deduct  basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr S needs  to take any further action will depend on his financial 
circumstances. More  information about the tax position can be found on our website.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint  against Peacock Insurance Services  Limited  and direct  them  to 
comply with my award of fair compensation above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1542807