K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that S.D. Taylor Limited  lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Using information SD Taylor has given us here is a brief summary of the home credit loans.
Loan Date Capital Charges/interest Term (w) Repay (£) Repaid
1 24/12/15 £500 £340 42 £20 14/07/16
2 14/07/16 £500 £400 45 £20 01/06/17
3 06/07/17 £500 £400 45 £20 04/07/18
4 18/07/18 £500 £400 45 £20 repaid
 
Mr M took a fifth loan in August  2019  for £500 for a 33 week  term.  This post-dated  Mr Ms 
complaint to SD Taylor, but it did not agree to that loan being included  in this complaint.  And 
so no findings  have been made for this loan. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that Loans 3 and 4 (of the four 
he was assessing) should not have been given to Mr M. SD Taylor did not agree and some 
of its points are summarised  and paraphrased  here:
It felt that we had failed to understand its business model and customer base;
It felt we had treated  its product in the same  way as high-cost short-term credit  
lending;
It referred to one part of our adjudicators  assessment - that Mr Ms overall pattern of 
borrowing showed hed become  reliant on the loans. SD Taylor  has said that this 
was an assumption and it says this is baseless and wishes  to see the evidence; 
Mr M payed  regularly and showed no signs of difficulties with his finances;
Mr M took the same capital sum each  time;
Mr Ms credit file information had shown  a lowering of his weekly repayments for 
other credit;
It cites a Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  review from 2018; 
Home credit companies are essential  to prevent consumers being driven to 
unregulated lenders.  In the case of [Mr M], we actually see an improving credit file 
during his relationship with us,
Our adjudicators second view responded to some of these points by explaining: 
- even though  a consumer may have  been able to repay previous loans that does  not 
necessarily mean he ought  to be provided  with more  loans in succession;  
 - the credit file he had seen for Mr M demonstrated defaults which ought to have been 
considered. 
Mr M, through his representative, acknowledged  receipt of the adjudicators view and has 
not disagreed  with it. It seems that Mr M was content with the outcome for Loans 1 and 2, 
these appear not to be in dispute  now, and so I will not be considering those here.  But I have 
kept these loans in mind  when thinking  about  the overall lending  relationship.  
Ref: DRN15932452The matter  remains unresolved and has been  passed to me for a decision. I will be 
reviewing Loans  3 and 4 within the context of the whole lending relationship. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints on our website. These include  all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice about high cost credit lending - including  for home credit.
some initial findings  
FCA reviews and consultation papers are issued to gather more information from relevant 
stakeholders. They  are not its final thoughts  on the matter. SD Taylors citing a consultation 
paper review  from 2018, does not present the up-to-date situation. Our approach has 
considered these FCA papers following the reviews  and by the FCA approach  to these 
complaints has been outlined   twice - in letters  addressed  to CEOs of companies and 
businesses in the high cost lending  sector.  These were in October 2018 and March 2019.  
The latter was entitled (original emphasis retained): Re: Portfolio Strategy  Letter  to firms  
providing high cost lending products. It explained that Each portfolio is made up of firms 
with broadly similar business models. We have allocated  your firm to the High Cost Lenders  
portfolio. And home-collected credit (HCC) is listed as one to which  that letter applies. 
So comprehensive is that letter to answer  many of the points to which SD Taylor have 
submitted to us, and have submitted to us before, then I take the trouble to set out here 
several sections. These, in my view, ought to answer many  of the points  SD Taylor have 
raised. And we refer SD Taylor to the decisions on our website.
 
The FCA in its March  2019 letter said (these  are extracts only and not the complete letter):   
Our view of the key causes  of harm  
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio: 
 a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable  lending patterns 
 firms  affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans  that customers  may not be 
able to afford 
(paragraphs omitted  here  more extracts from the letter continue on the next page)
Our areas of focus for all firms
We will prioritise our supervisory work  in the following areas:
Relending: We have seen a high volume of relending across all credit  products in the 
portfolio. We aim to carry out diagnostic work across the portfolio so that we can better 
understand the motivation  for, and impact  of, relending on both consumers  and firms. This 
work will examine aspects of relending such as customers borrowing journeys, firms 
Ref: DRN15932453marketing strategies for offering  additional credit and the costs of relending  for consumers. 
We want to understand  what  harm,  if any, relending may cause consumers.
As part of this work, we will proactively engage  with home-collected credit firms to ensure 
they understand our expectations. We will also discuss any changes  to their processes as a 
result of the new rules  and guidance on relending which we issued in our December 2018  
Policy Statement on high-cost credit.
Affordability: We recognise that there  is an inherent challenge for these firms  in assessing 
affordability for both new loans and repeat borrowing. High-cost  credit  customers finances  
are often squeezed and they may have  poor credit  histories and low financial  resilience.
Nevertheless, firms  must ensure that they are complying with all our affordability 
requirements. We gave an outline of these requirements in the Dear  CEO letter we sent to 
HCSTC firms  in October 2018. While this letter was aimed at HCSTC firms, the main 
principles are relevant  to all firms in this portfolio.
In July 2018, we published a Policy Statement clarifying our expectations on 
creditworthiness, by issuing new rules and guidance which came into effect  on 1 November 
2018. We expect  you to comply with our new rules. Our ongoing supervisory work on 
affordability with firms  will continue to drive  improvements in this area. As with all our rules, 
we will take the necessary  action where  we identify non-compliance.
Complaints: We know that there  have been increasing numbers of complaints about many 
of the products in this portfolio. Firms should  ensure  that they are handling  complaints 
appropriately. We expect  firms to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing  the root 
causes of complaints  and taking into account the Financial Ombudsman  Services  relevant 
decisions. We gave  further detail about what we expect from firms  complaint-handling
procedures in the Dear  CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is 
equally relevant  to all firms in the portfolio. 
my findings in relation to Mr Ms complaint
I have carefully considered all the arguments,  evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. 
SD Taylor  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that SD Taylor should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include: where a customers income  is particularly low; where the repayments  are 
particularly high; and/or  where the frequency of the loans and the length  of time over which  a 
customer has been given  loans need  to be looked  at: repeated  refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing  had become, or was becoming,  unsustainable.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN15932454SD Taylor  was required to establish  whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans   not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the FCA Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defined sustainable as being  
the ability to repay without  undue difficulties. 
In particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments, and without having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.  
I have looked  at Mr Ms personal credit file and I have seen that he had a County Court 
Judgement in November 2014 for about  £1,100. There was a history  of defaults on many 
accounts in 2015 and 2016 (and in the years  leading up to those) which included other 
payday lender  debts,  a bank account,  a credit card and a debt collection agency. In my view,  
Mr Ms credit history was poor. 
SD Taylor  has made reference to having  done credit checks. I have been sent these 
recently, but they are of partial use only. Those  credit report  results only cover two of the 
loans I am looking at  Loans 3 and 4.  And  what it seems to show to me is that Mr Ms file 
had lists of arrears on various accounts. These  varied  over a two-and-a-half-year period 
from February 2017 to September 2019 but never disappeared. So that bears out what  
I have seen on Mr Ms personal credit file  that his credit situation  was not strong. 
SD Taylor  says that Mr M was showing no signs of financial difficulties, but I would  say that 
his credit file shows otherwise. And as our adjudicator has pointed  out, the fact that Mr M 
was able to make payments does not mean  that he had no difficulty paying. I have seen 
from the SD Taylor accounts that Mr M was often in arrears.  
The overall pattern  of SD Taylors lending history with Mr M has been reviewed by me, with 
a view to seeing  if there  was a point at which SD Taylor should reasonably have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, SD Taylor should  have  
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached by Loan 3 and 
I say this because:
by Loan 3 he had been  in debt to SD Taylor for 18 months.  Plus, Loan 3 was the 
same amount as each  loan before it for over a year - £500. Mr M more often than 
not  had continued to take the same £500 loan amount, which demonstrates  he 
persistently required  that amount for his daily life. It does not show that these were 
short-term loans  to assist with a cash-flow  issue. SD Taylor  ought to have noticed 
that;
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed SD Taylor.  Mr M had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to SD Taylor  over an 
extended period;
I think that Mr M lost out because SD Taylor  continued  to provide borrowing from Loan 3 
onwards because:
Ref: DRN15932455these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit use over an extended period;
the time in debt and the sheer number of loans  was likely to have  had negative  
implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about  Loans 3 and 4 and SD Taylor should put things right.
putting things right
SD Taylor  needs to put things right by:
refunding any interest and charges  already paid by Mr M in respect of Loans 3 and 4;
apply 8% simple interest  per year to any interest  and charges refunded from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove each of Loans 3 and 4 from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SD Taylor to take off tax from this interest  and it must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct that SD Taylor Limited 
put things right in the way I have said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1593245