K821x#15complaint
Ms D instructed The Protection  Specialist  Limited,  trading as the Fair Trade  Practice (FTP)  
to claim for potentially mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). Claims were 
successful with two PPI providers and FTP invoiced for their fees. Ms D is unhappy  that FTP 
misinformed her and that they chased  for their fees before she received  the compensation.
background
Ms D had four successful  claims with two different PPI providers. Before she could  receive 
her compensation, for the claims with PPI provider F Ms D needed to complete a Payment 
Instruction Form and provide proof of the change of her name.  For the claim with PPI 
provider B she needed  to complete an Acceptance of Offer form and visit a local branch to 
provide proof of identification.
Ms D has complained that FTP didnt make  it clear what  she needed to do to get her 
compensation, and didnt  send her the forms the PPI providers needed  completing.  Shes  
also complained  that FTP were chasing  her for payment of their fees when they knew  she 
hadnt received  the compensation.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator.
Our investigator found that FTP hadnt  acted reasonably. FTP had acknowledged they 
werent as clear as they couldve been about the documentation that was needed, and the 
investigator felt they shouldve  told Ms D exactly what she needed  to provide. This led to Ms 
D contacting PPI provider F herself,  and making an unnecessary visit to a branch. Because 
of this the investigator recommended  FTP pay Ms D £100  for the inconvenience this caused.
The investigator also found that Ms D had advised  FTP she hadnt received the 
compensation, but they still chased  her for payment  of their fees. Because of this the 
investigator recommended FTP pay Ms D another £50 for the inconvenience  this caused.
FTP didnt agree with the investigator. They feel they were entitled  to chase for their fee, and 
if Ms D had told them the compensation hadnt  been received they wouldve updated their 
system to reflect this. They also say they are confident  that we provided all of the relevant 
information to [Ms D] and she would  have known exactly what  was required for the claim, 
and that if Ms D had sent them the required documentation there  wouldve been  no need  for 
her to contact PPI provider F herself.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN19217372advise about documentation required
Ive seen that PPI provider B told FTP in a letter dated 24 November 2017 that the claim had 
been successful.  This letter said Ms D would need  to provide proof of ID and address at a 
local branch before any compensation was paid. FTP told Ms D about the successful  claim 
on 4 January 2018, but they only told her she needed to sign the acceptance letter  and 
return it in the prepaid envelope provided.
PPI provider F told FTP of the successful claims in two letters,  both dated  7 December 2017. 
One letter said that Ms D needed to complete and return a payment form, while the other  
letter said that proof of change  of name  was also needed. FTP told Ms D about the 
successful claims  in a letter dated  20 December, but only told her she needed to sign and 
return the acceptance letter. This also refers  to a letter from PPI provider F, but doesnt say 
which one. As the FTP letter doesnt refer to the proof of name requirement, its likely  that 
the PPI provider F letter referred to was the one that didnt ask for this.
Because of this, I cant agree that FTP provided  Ms D with all of the relevant information, or 
that she wouldve  known  exactly  what she needed  to do to get her compensation. While I 
appreciate that PPI provider F lost the documentation when they received  this, and I cant 
hold FTP responsible  for this; had they provided  Ms D with the full requirements at the outset 
then a lot of the issues couldve  been  avoided. I agree with the investigator that FTP should 
compensate Ms D £100 for the inconvenience resulting from their misinformation.
Chasing for fees
Ive seen that FTP invoiced Ms D for their fees on 5 January 2018. The invoices said that 
payment was due within  14 days of receipt of your financial  award  and asked her to let FTP 
know if she hadnt received payment yet. Ms D let them know  on 18 and 22 January  that she 
hadnt yet received the money. On 8 February  FTP emailed Ms D, asking her for a copy of 
her marriage certificate, so they could  send it to PPI provider F so the compensation could 
be paid. 
On 11 February, FTP chased Ms D for payment of their invoices and said that charges 
would be applied if payment wasnt made within seven  days.  FTP have said they dont think  
it was unreasonable for them to send this letter  because we have a right to protect our own 
interests and contact our clients  to ensure  we receive the fees were  entitled to. They also 
said that Ms D couldve contacted them  and told them she hadnt received the award yet.
I agree  that FTP have the right to collect their fees,  and I accept that they arent  told by PPI 
providers when payments are made.  But, in this case, they knew they were waiting for Ms D 
to send them her marriage certificate  before payment could be made, so they knew  Ms D 
hadnt received  her award. They also emailed Ms D on 19 February telling her that certified 
ID documentation was still needed  before the compensation  could be released  the same 
day as they added late payment fees to the unpaid invoiced. 
Because of this I agree with the investigator  that FTP acted unreasonably in chasing  for their 
fees, and that they should compensate Ms D £50 to recognise this.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Ms Ds complaint. The Protection Specialist 
Limited must  pay Ms D a total of £150 to recognise  the inconvenience  and upset caused.
Ref: DRN19217373Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1921737