K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains Elite Insurance Company Limited took too long to cancel his alloy wheel, 
cosmetic repair  and tyre insurance policies. 
background
Mr B contacted Elite in June 2018  to cancel all three  insurance  policies, as hed sold his car. 
At the time he was told there were some delays in getting the refunds processed but they 
shouldnt take longer  than 28 days.  
After a couple of weeks  Mr B called to find out what was happening with the refund  and 
complained. He also contacted this service to raise a complaint around the same time. Elite 
issued a final response in August 2018  where  they explained that because of a reinsurance 
arrangement affecting Elites assets, a restricted payments protocol had been introduced. 
The letter said Elite were  unable to give a timeframe on how long this would  last but updates  
would be published  on their website. 
Elite sent Mr B another letter at the beginning of October 2018 providing an update. The 
letter explained the payment protocol had been  lifted and they would  now be working to clear 
the outstanding payments as quickly as they could. The letter also said all updates could be 
found on Elites website and provided an e-mail  address for any questions.  
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Bs complaint and upheld it. He found that Elite had confirmed 
Mr B met the policy terms and conditions for a pro rata refund. He also found that Mr B 
hadnt been given any specific updates or even  confirmed the amount Mr B was due to be 
refunded. Mr B had also made numerous calls to Elite, which  werent answered, trying  to find 
out what was happening.  Because of this Our investigator recommended  Elite calculate  the 
refund amount from the date Mr B initially requested it and add 8% simple interest to 
compensate him for the time he hadnt  had the money. He also recommended  Elite pay Mr B 
£100 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience cause by the lack of communication  
during the cancellation.
Mr B responded to say he accepted our investigators findings and Elite had processed his 
refund, but hadnt paid the additional  £100 or 8% interest. Elite responded and disagreed, 
they said because  of the payment protocol they were unable to issue refunds sooner and 
didnt agree to the £100 compensation  or additional  8% interest.  
Because Elite disagreed the complaint has come to me. 
When the complaint  came  to me I contacted  Mr B to let him know it wasnt  fair to ask Elite to 
pay the additional 8% interest. Mr B agreed to this and Ill explain my reasons below. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Elite have issued  Mr B the refund and hes satisfied with it I see no reason to consider 
that point further  here. Elite however disagreed with the £100 distress  and inconvenience 
recommended and 8% interest. They said as the payment issue was across all polices and 
was outside of Elites  control, there wasnt  anything else they could do. 
Ref: DRN11374262In regards to the time taken to pay the refund Elites website explains this was because  of 
the appointment of a liquidator  to a third party  insurer, who reinsures most of Elites assets. 
Im therefore  satisfied the delay was outside of Elites control which  is why its not fair and 
reasonable to also ask them to pay the additional 8% interest  our investigator 
recommended. But I do think they could have  done more to keep Mr B updated during this 
time. 
I say this because  Mr B chased Elite several times  before  and after he was made aware  of 
the payment issue. When Elite let Mr B know about the problem they didnt provide any time 
frames or when they would next update him. I can see they directed him to their website, but 
Mr B said he doesnt have access to the internet so wasnt  able to see the updates. After the 
final response letter Elite didnt send Mr B any updates to let him know  the issue  was still 
ongoing or respond to the numerous  calls he made.  
Mr B didnt receive any other contact from Elite until the refund was able to be issued, but 
again this didnt provide  a timescale.  Mr B eventually received his refund in December 2018, 
this was around six months  after the original request to cancel. I can see Elites website was 
updated, but Mr B couldnt see this. As Mr B had no other updates  apart from the letters, Im 
satisfied Elite could have done  more  to keep Mr B updated. As this wasnt  done Mr B made  
numerous calls which went unanswered. Because of this Elite should pay Mr B £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience hes suffered by not being  kept updated. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold this complaint and require Elite Insurance 
Company limited to pay Mr B £100  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. 
Elite Insurance Company  Limited should do this within 28 days of us telling them  Mr Bs 
accepted my final decision. If it pays the compensation later than this they should add 
interest to the compensation at 8% simple per year from the date of my decision until the 
date they make payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Elite Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr B a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Ref: DRN1137426