K820x#14complaint
Mr O is represented. His representative says Wallwood Capital Management Limited 
(Wallwood) set up and mismanaged (with unsuitable  investment  advice  and unreasonable  
charges) his Contracts for Differences (CFDs) trading account.
background
Mr Os Wallwood account was connected to a third party brokerage account. There is 
evidence of a fact find document, a managed account agreement (for CFDs (and other  
derivative products)),  a managed account agreement (for equities  (and other investment 
assets)) and a Risk Disclosure Confirmation (RDC) document   each signed and dated by 
him on 2 January 2014. 
The fact find document  confirms Mr Os selection of Wallwoods discretionary management 
service and the RDC refers to a 14 page Risk Disclosure (RD)  document.  The version of 
the RD document that has been  shared  with us is dated 2 October 2013.
Mr Os representative mainly submits as follows:
Opening the account for Mr O was inherently inappropriate. He had previous 
experience in trading equities  but that was not comparable to the significantly higher  
risks in trading  CFDs. The account was suitable  only for expert CFD traders  with at 
least £250,000  (due to the nature of CFD trading  in terms of profit  making and the 
impact of charges) in capital allocation. Mr O was neither an expert CFD trader, nor 
did he allocate such an amount  to the account.
Wallwood did not explain  or did not properly explain  the nature of CFD trading 
(and its high risks)  to Mr O.
The charges/commission structure for the account (and for CFD trading in the 
account) was inherently to Mr Os disadvantage and was not explained  or was not 
properly explained   to him. This structure  and the high risks in CFD trading meant 
the account was  doomed to fail from the outset .
Wallwood advised Mr Os trades on a general  advice  basis which did not cater  for 
subjective suitability  and did not allow proper monitoring of his trades.  He was given 
assurances with regards to the CFD trading which were not met.
Wallwood breached its regulatory duty to treat Mr O fairly by trying to exclude  
responsibilities for ongoing care of the account  and by aggregating its clients  CFD 
orders.
Wallwood mainly says as follows:
It is responsible for Mr Os account  only until April 2014, when it notified him that its 
managed account service (to him) would cease.
The account was appropriate for Mr O, he confirmed in the fact find document  that he 
had 12 years experience  in trading  equities, he had the requisite financial capacity 
and he fully understood, accepted and undertook all the product information and risk 
notices issued to him. In addition,  the amount traded for him in CFDs (16,000  Euros) 
was within, and around half of, his allocation of 20% (of his assets)  for high risk 
exposure.
It did not provide  an advisory service to Mr O, it provided a discretionary account  
management service  to him, whereby  it traded  in his third party  brokerage  account 
with the power  of attorney  and discretion he had conferred unto it. On this basis, any 
Ref: DRN11797882allegation of unsuitable advice is rejected. Its discretionary CFD trading for Mr O was 
not negligent or unsuitable.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She took the view that the account  was appropriate for Mr O for broadly the same  
reasons given by Wallwood;  that the charges/commission structure for the account was 
consistent with industry  practice in terms of CFD trading and that details of  the structure 
were given to him in the RD document at the outset; that she had not seen evidence of the 
assurances alleged  by the representative;  that overall the account made a profit of 6.54% 
during Wallwoods  service so this defeats the representatives argument that the account  
was doomed to fail; that a part of the account  also appears to have been  diversified  away  
from CFDs; and that Wallwoods overarching regulatory responsibility for the account 
remains despite the representatives  view that it sought to avoid it.
Mr Os representative disagreed with the investigators conclusion  and the matter  was 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Appropriateness
With regards to the opening of Mr Os Wallwood  account, the matter to consider is the 
appropriateness of the account  for him. The regulators rules make provisions in this respect 
which usually apply  at the point of the promotion  or offer of a service to a client or potential 
client. Appropriateness is also distinct from suitability , with the latter  applying  in the context 
of investment advice.
Appropriateness is assessed  on the basis of information from a client  to a firm about whether 
(or not) the client has sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved 
in the service or product  offered by the firm. 
In terms of CFD trading, and contrary to Mr Os representatives assertion, there is no 
requirement that a client or potential client must or should be an expert  CFD trader in order  
for a CFD account to be appropriate.  In his case, Wallwood  was entitled to rely upon 
information from Mr O in assessing appropriateness of the account  regulations  provide for 
this. In the fact find document Mr O confirmed the following:
12 years experience of trading equities.
Approximate annual  income of 75,000  Euros, a cash balance of the same  amount 
and 105,000 Euros in net liquid assets (out of 230,000 Euros in total liquid assets).
An objective for capital growth,  selection of speculative and short term trading 
strategies and allocation of 20% of his assets for this purpose. 
The managed  account agreements also confirmed Mr Os capacity for loss as being 
50% of his account value  with the account  value being  16,000 Euros.
Overall and on balance,  Wallwood appears  to have been given sufficient information to 
conclude that the CFD account was appropriate for Mr O  and that he had an overall 
financial capacity profile for such an account. I do not consider that this conclusion was 
unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN11797883It is true that he had no previous CFD trading experience, however the rules for the 
assessment of suitability  required  Wallwood to consider whether (or not) he had a level of 
investment knowledge and experience to allow  him to understand the risks involved in CFD 
trading. 
Trading in equities is not generally considered to be as risky as CFD trading, but it is 
nevertheless risky.  It would have  been  reasonable for Wallwood to conclude that Mr Os 12 
years experience of trading equities  made  him sufficiently knowledgeable and experienced 
in investment risks. In addition, the RD document   which is relevant to the time of his CFD 
account and which serves as reliable  evidence of the RD information he accepted  and 
confirmed to have  understood  was reasonably detailed. It included the following:
Boldly typed notices at the outset about  the general high risks of CFD trading.
Detailed information about CFDs and about  Wallwoods model account service  for 
CFD trading.
Notices that no performance guarantees were given.
Detailed information, in the context of CFD trading, about risks to capital, volatility 
risks, liquidity  risks, risks related  to leveraged trading  (in CFDs)  and risks of margin  
calls. Examples and/or  illustrations of some of these risks are also given.
Information about CFD dealing and financing costs/charges, with an illustration of the 
former.
In the context of Mr Os significant previous  experience of trading equities,  I consider that he 
would have properly  understood  the RD document and the risks and costs  associated with 
CFD trading.  I do not accept that the account  was inappropriate for him. I also consider that 
he had the financial  capacity for the account as his capital deposit was less than the level of 
20% (of his assets) he set.
Wallwoods Service to Mr O.
Wallwood is correct in asserting  that it did not provide an advisory service to Mr O. Available  
evidence shows his signed agreement to the discretionary management service that 
Wallwood has described, whereby  it made  and executed the CFD trading decisions in the 
third party brokerage account  as opposed to advising  Mr O on CFD trades. In this context, 
his representatives  argument about  unsuitable  advice falls away. 
I too have not seen  evidence of performance assurances given by Wallwood to Mr O and, as 
stated above,  the RD document  informed  him of the opposite  that performance was not 
guaranteed. I am also satisfied with evidence  that Wallwoods service to Mr O ended  in April 
2014. This was prompted by an agreement between Wallwood and the regulator  to cease 
providing its regulated  service at the time.
Discretionary Management  of Mr Os account
I am not persuaded that Mr Os representative has established mismanagement  or negligent 
management of his CFD account. There is account  activity evidence from the relevant third 
party brokerage firm. It shows that an overall profit was made from CFD trading  between 
January and April 2014,  and that his capacity for loss setting was never reached or 
breached. There is also evidence of account  activities in the trading of shares  and Exchange 
Traded Funds (ETFs), hence  the investigators  note about diversification.  
Ref: DRN11797884I do not suggest that performance alone  determines whether (or not) the account  was 
mismanaged, however I mention this with regards  to Mr Os representatives submissions 
about the account having failed or having been doomed to failure  under  Wallwoods  
management. I also mention the above  because an inference that can be drawn from his 
capacity for loss setting  not being  reached  or breached is that Wallwood managed the 
account reasonably  within  the setting  as opposed  to trading recklessly.
No specific trade(s) has been highlighted as being  unsuitable, so I have considered,  overall, 
the manner in which Mr Os account  appears  to have been managed (including the trading 
and charges within it). I do not consider that there is evidence of reckless or negligent 
trading. Mr Os representative might argue that better trading decisions could have been 
made, but even if that was the case that alone  does not amount to mismanagement of the 
account. It would be important to show trading decisions  that no reasonably  minded 
discretionary manager would have made,  and I have not seen evidence  of that. 
There is evidence of frequent  trading,  but mainly in batches of dates as opposed to being  on 
an ongoing and daily basis. It can be, broadly, within the nature of CFD trading for such high 
frequency to exist so this alone does not mean Wallwood was reckless. This high frequency 
impacted upon  the charges incurred in the account   given that dealing  charges applied 
separately for the opening and closing  of each trade  however this was a part of the risks of 
CFD trading  Mr O was given notice  about at the outset (and accepted).  Account activity 
evidence does not show that the charges which were applied mismatched those he agreed 
to and, as the investigator said, they are not uncommon in the sector.
I have not seen evidence of the aggregating approach alleged by Mr Os representative. 
Whilst it appears to be their concern that Wallwood has sought to avoid its responsibilities, I 
consider that the treatment the investigator  and I have given to Mr Os complaint  treatment 
based on Wallwoods responsibilities to ensure the account was appropriate for him and was 
fairly managed (with proper disclosure of risks and costs)  shows  that it has been held 
accountable to its regulated and contractual responsibilities.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Os complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject  my decision 
before 17 May 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1179788