K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Canada Square  Operations  Limited (then trading as Egg) mis-sold her 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with a credit card in May 2002.
background
The policy was added  to Ms Ss credit card account when she applied for the card online via 
the Egg website.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
Ms Ss main concerns are that she wasnt aware of the cost and she didnt know  that the PPI 
was optional. Ms S said that if shed known PPI was optional she wouldnt  have  taken it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
I think Egg made Ms S aware  that the PPI was optional and she chose  to take it. On the 
online application form Ms S completed, she had to select the Yes option  to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No. So I think she wouldve been able to see at the time that 
she couldve  declined PPI if she hadnt wanted  it. And she wouldve had to choose one of 
those options  in order for her application  to proceed. Its completely understandable that she 
mightve forgotten some of these  details so long after the event. But, on balance, I find that 
Ms S knew she had a choice about  protecting her card repayments and she wanted to do so 
at the time. 
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms S so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  for her. 
Its possible some of the information  Egg gave Ms S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, next to where Ms S was asked to decide about the PPI, the cover was 
broadly described,  the cost was set out and there was information about the benefits PPI 
offered. I think Ms S couldve have benefitted from having  the policy.  
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months in the event that Ms S was too ill to work. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Ms Ss credit card repayments if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
It doesnt look like Ms S had any other dependable  ways of making the monthly repayments 
on her Egg card if she wasnt working.  
Ref: DRN18769832Relying on friends  to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking 
out PPI as everyones circumstances  can change unexpectedly. I've taken into account that 
she mentioned being  able to rely on her husbands  savings. But there was no guarantee 
when she took out her Egg card that they would always have savings to rely on. Ms S has 
told us that she took out this credit card in order to refinance other debt  so it doesnt  seem 
likely to me that she had access  to any significant  amount of savings at the time or she 
wouldnt have needed a credit card for this purpose.
Alternatively, if she simply chose not to put savings towards keeping down the cost of 
borrowing, I think shed have valued  the protection PPI offered if it meant she and her 
husband could  keep savings intact to provide financial  security.  
So I can see why she mightve wanted  to have  PPI. Having PPI wouldve meant Ms S could 
be sure shed be able to more than cover  her Egg card monthly repayments whatever her 
circumstances.
Ms S was eligible for the policy. There were  some things the policy  didnt cover. But it 
doesnt look as if those applied in Ms Ss case.  So, I dont think  having  more information 
about things the policy didnt cover  wouldve affected her decision to take it out. PPI provided  
Ms S with the protection broadly described on the website which shed  indicated  she was 
willing to pay for.  
I think, when it was trading as Egg, Canada Square Operations Limited couldve explained 
the policy cost better than it did. But, the policy seems to have been affordable for Ms S 
when she took it out. And, looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Ms S, I think it 
unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if better information  had been provided. On 
balance I think shed  still have taken out the policy. 
This means  Canada Square Operations Limited  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Ms S.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms S 
because: 
Canada Square  Operations Limited got a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Ms S about that. Because  
Canada Square  Operations Limited didnt  tell Ms S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square Operations Limited has paid back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
Ref: DRN18769833my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Ms S any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1876983