K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft (ERGO) hasnt treated 
them fairly when  it said it wouldnt meet  a large part of a claim they made for a damaged oil 
tank. They made the claim  under  their home  insurance.
background
I issued my initial thoughts on this complaint  in February. A copy of this report is attached  
and forms part of this decision.
My initial thoughts were, in summary, that ERGO  had relied  upon  an incomplete survey  
carried out on its behalf to apply an exclusion to Mr and Mrs As claim. In particular it didnt 
have a report that either addressed the insured event  Mr and Mrs A thought  had occurred 
(landslip), nor did it have  any photos  from the time the damage occurred which might have 
enabled it to reach a fair conclusion about whether a particular  exclusion applied.
I thought it fairer to rely on the information Mr and Mrs A provided  at the time the incident 
happened  which was recorded by ERGO.  
My provisional conclusion was that ERGO  hadnt fairly considered the claim, and that it 
should now meet the claim,  subject  to any other terms and conditions in the policy. I also 
thought ERGO should pay some compensation for the difficulties Mr and Mrs A have faced 
because of the delays.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A have  accepted my provisional findings. They tell me there is now also internal 
damage from the broken tile/tiles in their home.
ERGO has objected. In summary it says it was satisfied with the incomplete surveyors report  
and that as it didnt mention landslip there was no reason to examine that aspect of the claim 
further. It says it considered the claim properly.
I explained why I didnt think this was satisfactory in my provisional decision and Im not 
going to repeat those arguments. But ERGO hasnt provided any new evidence  so I see no 
reason why I should change that part of my decision.
ERGO also says that only one tile was broken by the fall  and repairing that would  fall 
within the excess that applies to landslip claims. ERGO made a similar argument about  the 
cost of replacing the tank, and I didnt  place much weight on this because   as it will know  
repairs and replacements  cost more than simply the price of materials or a tank. Until ERGO 
properly assesses the work needed  it cant be sure the overall  cost will be within the £1,000 
excess.
For clarity the remedial  work should  include the damage to the house,  and the oil tank. The 
house damage should include both the external damage and any subsequent damage  
caused by water getting in because the tile has gone unrepaired whilst Mr and Mrs A waited 
Ref: DRN16338042for their claim to be settled. If the oil tank needs replacing then the work should include 
removing the old tank and any remedial  clean up work as well as replacing the tank.
ERGO also says it shouldnt have to pay compensation because  Mr and Mrs A knew where 
they stood many months ago  because ERGO said it wouldnt pay their claim. Ive already  
said I think ERGO  should meet this claim, and it reached an unsafe conclusion  when it 
received Mr and Mrs As complaint about the claim last year.
I think it reasonable to ask ERGO  to pay the compensation I suggested and cover the extra  
costs Mr and Mrs A have had.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order ERGO Versicherung  Aktiengesellschaft to 
meet this claim subject  to any relevant terms and conditions in Mr and Mrs As policy.  It must 
also pay £750 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience its actions have  caused  and 
meet the extra heating  costs Mr and Mrs A have had if they provide  some evidence of this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN16338043Copy of provisional  decision issued  February 2020
complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft (ERGO) hasnt treated them  fairly 
when it said it wouldnt meet  a large  part of a claim they made  for a damaged oil tank. They made  the 
claim under  their home insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs A noticed a smell of oil in their garden in August  2018. Further exploration revealed  that 
some earth  and rocks had fallen from the rear of their garden, and their oil tank had been damaged  
and was leaking fuel. They took some advice  from a local plumber  and followed his instructions  for 
preventing further oil loss. They also noted some damage to the roof of their extension, although not 
much.
Mr and Mrs A contacted ERGO, saying  they thought the damage  was caused by a landslip  or 
subsidence. ERGO agreed to look at their claim, and sent a surveyor  out to look at the damage. The 
surveyor noted that the house was built on sloping ground,  and there was a rock face at the rear of 
the garden  in some  parts nearly vertical. He didnt  know where the rocks had fallen from,  but 
concluded that the damage was caused accidentally  and that there was some evidence of oil 
leaking into the soil. He thought  there might have been a loss of about  £75 worth of oil  about  125 
litres, despite (or before) Mr and Mrs As attempts  to stem any leaks..
The surveyor  sent ERGO  his preliminary  report, and told Mr and Mrs A their claim wouldnt  be met, 
because under the accidental damage part of the policy oil tanks were excluded. He said the loss of 
oil was covered  but the estimated value was below the excess on this section of their policy. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt accept this and complained, as they want their oil tank replaced. ERGO didnt get 
a final report from the surveyor, but instead wrote to Mr and Mrs A saying the damage was accidental 
and it wouldnt meet this part of the claim.
Mr and Mrs A came to this service and our investigator thought ERGO had acted fairly  so didnt 
recommend it do any more  than it has.
Mr and Mrs A say their policy covers things like their central heating system, and the oil tank is part of 
this, so their claim should  be met. Theyve also explained how difficult  it is trying to get by without 
proper central  heating  and hot water  particularly for Mrs A who isnt well.
Ive been asked  to decide this complaint.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Before I move on to considering what happened  with this claim it might help if I explained which 
insurance policy Im looking at.
I can see that there has been some confusion about the level of cover Mr and Mrs A hold. Mr and Mrs 
A say their insurance  policy covers their central heating system   and that the fuel tank is part of this, 
so their claim should be met. Mr and Mrs A actually have two policies  one is their ordinary building  
and contents insurance (which ERGO provides)  and the other is for home  emergency only, which  is 
provided by a different insurance company.  I can understand  why the confusion  about  the cover arose  
as the two policies appear to have been sold at the same time. And they do provide complementary   
if different  levels of cover. However, the policies are provided by two different  insurers. Each is only 
responsible for what  happens  when  a claim is made on the policy they provide. 
Ref: DRN16338044Ive only looked at the insurance  provided  by ERGO, which is the building and contents cover.  This 
type of policy covers  damage  caused by whats often  described as an insured event. These are 
defined in the policy terms and conditions. This approach  is common in the insurance industry, as 
home insurance doesnt  normally cover every  eventuality. The policy  doesnt include repairs to central 
heating systems  only the damage caused if theres a problem with the system. For example, a 
radiator could  leak and damage  a carpet. Building  and contents cover wouldnt meet the cost of 
repairing the radiator but would  likely  assuming there isnt a valid reason  not to  pay to clean or 
replace the carpet,  depending upon the level of damage. 
The other  policy Mr and Mrs A hold does provide a limited amount of cover for emergency repairs to a 
central heating system.  I havent looked at that policy in detail as it isnt provided by ERGO, but in the 
example I gave above, this policy might have paid for the radiator repair  but not the subsequent 
damage. 
Having said this, Im currently intending  to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the policy  documents.  The two events which seem appropriate  for this claim are 
accidental damage and landslip. The general approach to making a claim  is that a customer  should  
show their insurer that an insured event has taken place. An insurer  will often assist in this process 
by appointing someone  to assess whats happened  which ERGO did here. If the insurer accepts an 
event occurred, then it would normally  either meet  the claim or show  why it need not do that. It would 
usually do that by showing  that an exclusion applies.  Exclusions are also defined  in the terms and 
conditions, and are meant to limit the amount  of risk the insurer takes when providing cover.  
Here ERGO relied upon a report from a surveyor it sent to look at the damage.  ERGO  then said it 
wouldnt repair Mr and Mrs As oil tank because it had been  damaged by falling rocks. It says this is 
accidental damage, and Mr and Mrs As policy excludes repairing oil tanks damaged in this way. 
The report Ive seen from the surveyor is marked as preliminary. However, the report  is fairly 
comprehensive  it describes the As garden and the damage  that was caused by falling  rocks. It 
goes on to describe that the type of rock face in the garden is one that can be affected by weathering 
which can lead to erosion and falling rocks. 
Unfortunately there  arent any photos in the report  nor is there any explanation why the surveyor 
concluded that the cause  of the damage was accidental  rather than because  of a landslip, as Mr and 
Mrs A thought. 
I think  this is an important  point.  Thats because, if the damage was accidental,  then Mr and Mrs As 
policy doesnt  cover this damage  although  it would cover the cost of cleaning up oil that had leaked, 
and pay to replace the lost oil.
If the damage was caused by a landslip then the tank itself would be covered, so long as part of Mr 
and Mrs As home was also damaged. There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Mr and Mrs As 
home was damaged (some roof tiles were  broken),  so I think that if landslip  is the cause, then the 
claim should be met  subject to any other relevant terms and conditions in the policy.
Mr and Mrs As policy  defines landslip as the downward movement of sloping ground. Ive borne this 
in mind when considering what both Mr and Mrs A and ERGO have told us.
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs A wrote to ERGO and described the damage as I saw a great deal of 
earth and rock which  had slid down  from the garden above. That description fits with what  theyd said 
to ERGO when they first made their claim,  as theyd said they thought the tank had been damaged by 
landslip or subsidence.
Ref: DRN16338045We recently asked Mr and Mrs A to send some photos of the garden and oil tank. We asked ERGO to 
take these into consideration. ERGOs response is that was that there was no landslip in its truest 
sense  although it hasnt said what that means. ERGO goes  on to say Its more likely that the roots 
of the vegetation growing  on the rock face has loosened  the outer surface and caused one or two 
rocks to fall. There has not been a mass of rocks, soil or detritus  sliding down from the slope.  
I accept that ERGO is looking at photos taken about 18 months  after the event   so its 
understandable that any earth has been cleared away.  But Im currently persuaded  more by Mr and 
Mrs As description of what happened  which  is from much closer  to the time the damage occurred. I 
think what they said fits with the description of landslip in the policy.
ERGO goes  on to say that even if landslip  did apply, then theres a policy excess  of £1,000 for this 
part of the policy, and this outweighs the cost of a replacement oil tank. It provided some information 
about the cost of tanks  similar to Mr and Mrs As to support this. 
I havent given this much  weight, as without a proper quote the cost of replacing a tank (and fitting) 
cant be established as being below  £1,000. And there might be contamination  of land to deal with 
too, despite Mr As efforts to prevent this.
I can see from ERGOs own notes that it never received  a full report from the surveyor it appointed. 
And it was considering the need to pay for any leakage and contamination  that might have occurred 
after the damage  was caused, even if it wasnt meeting the original claim. Thats  not something it 
would normally do. But because  of the way the surveyor dealt with this claim and the lack of a full 
report, ERGO thought it might have to pay for this damage if it occurred. Its clear  to me that ERGO 
wasnt satisfied with the report  it got. In those  circumstances Id expect  it to make further enquiries, 
and appoint  a new surveyor if necessary. Thats especially so given Mr and Mrs A didnt accept  
ERGOs refusal to pay this part of their claim. ERGO didnt do that.
Taking everything into account Im currently intending  to ask ERGO to meet  Mr and Mrs As claim, 
subject to any other relevant terms and conditions (such as the excess) that might  apply. That will 
include also the cost of repairing damage to their home, as I understand part of a roof was damaged.
Mr and Mrs A have told us how theyve been struggling  without proper heating and hot water, as both 
are over 65 and Mrs A in particular suffers from ill health. They say theyve had to rely on their 
daughter to help out. Im sure this has been very difficult for them.  If ERGO had considered  this claim  
properly Mr and Mrs A would have known where they stood about  18 months ago. So Im also going  
to ask ERGO to pay £750  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience theyve suffered,  and to 
meet any extra costs for heating and hot water Mr and Mrs A have had between  August 2018 and the 
date of settlement.  Mr and Mrs A may need to give ERGO  some evidence  of these  extra costs so 
ERGO can work out what to pay.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint and ask ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft  to meet Mr and 
Mrs As claim, subject to any other relevant terms and conditions,  reimburse their extra heating  costs 
and pay £750 compensation for the inconvenience and upset its caused.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1633804