K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Birmingham  Midshires, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a 
claims management company.
background
In 2000 Mr H took out PPI when he applied for a mortgage. It gave him protection  for his 
mortgage repayments if he couldnt  work because of accident,  sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H didnt agree.  He said, in summary, that:
The PPI wasnt discussed  and was added without his knowledge or consent.
He wasnt aware he had PPI, otherwise he wouldve claimed  when he couldnt work due 
to illness.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr H says he didnt know he had PPI and he didnt agree to it. But he also says he thought  
he had to have  it for his mortgage application  to be successful. I cant  be certain exactly 
what was discussed  during the mortgage  application. And its not surprising Mr Hs 
recollection of what happened  may have faded.  But Birmingham Midshires  has been  able to 
provide a copy of the paperwork that was completed  at the time.
This shows the mortgage application form included a separate section about insurance and 
asked the question, Do you want HomeProtector ? There are ticks in both the Yes and 
No boxes, but the tick in the No box has been crossed  out. So it seems likely to me that a 
discussion was held about the PPI and Mr H, having  originally decided  he didnt want it, 
changed his mind. A separate PPI application  form was then completed. 
A quotation wouldve been  sent to Mr H after the meeting,  confirming how much the PPI 
cost. If this wasnt something Mr H had applied for, I think he wouldve questioned it at the 
time.
Ive had to think  about this carefully,  because of the conflicting information  and because  the 
No box had originally  been ticked.  But, overall,  I think Birmingham Midshires  made it clear  
the PPI was optional and Mr H chose to take it. Ive not seen anything  in the paperwork to 
suggest Mr H had to have the PPI.
Its not clear whether  advice was given so, to be fair to Mr H, Ive considered the case  to the 
higher standard of an advised  sale. This means Birmingham Midshires had to make sure the 
PPI was suitable for Mr H.
Ref: DRN18091002Hes told us he wouldve been entitled to three months full pay followed by three months half 
pay if he couldnt work due to sickness  or an accident. The PPI would have paid out in 
addition to his work  benefits for up to 12 months for accident and sickness claims. It also 
covered him if hed become  unemployed. The mortgage was a significant long term financial 
commitment and Mr Hs home was at risk if he didnt keep  up with the repayments. So, 
overall, I dont think his existing arrangements made the PPI unsuitable.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mr H before he agreed to 
purchase it. He was sent a quote  and a letter which told him the policy cost £11.97 each 
month, but this was after hed agreed to have it. For this reason  I have considered whether 
clearer information about the cost would have affected Mr Hs decision to purchase the 
policy. Hed chosen to take out the policy, knowing he would have to pay something for it. 
The policy was competitively priced  and apparently  affordable. So I think it unlikely he would 
have made  a different decision if better  information about the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Birmingham Midshires gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it should have been. But, for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think its recommendation 
was unsuitable  and I dont think Mr H would have made a different decision about taking out 
the policy if better information had been  provided  to him  overall,  I think  he would still have 
taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account what Mr H says about not making a claim when  he was unwell and 
unable to work for a prolonged period. He says this shows he didnt know he had the PPI. 
And hes told us how the time off work impacted on him and his ability to pay the mortgage  
and how hed had to borrow money. Ive thought  about this very carefully   he became ill 
around four months after the mortgage and PPI applications. And Ive no doubt Mr H 
wouldve claimed if hed remembered  he had PPI. But Im not persuaded his failure to make 
a claim was because  the PPI wasnt discussed or that it was taken out without his 
knowledge. As noted above, a separate application form was completed  and information 
about the PPI policy  was sent to him. I also see the PPI policy  was cancelled in June 2001 
which suggests Mr H knew he had it. Im sorry, but his failure to make  a claim for his 
sickness, doesnt change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.  
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1809100