K821x#15complaint
Mr F says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold  him two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.  
background
Mr F took out two regular  premium PPI policies against his store card. The first policy  was 
taken out in 1995 when  he applied for the store card and the second policy  was taken out in 
2002 and was added to the existing store card. He paid a monthly  amount for the policies. 
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator partly upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs case.
Having done this, I think the complaint should be partly upheld. Ill explain why.
1995 sale
Both Mr F and FICL agree the policy was sold during a meeting in-store.  During that 
meeting, FICL shouldve  taken reasonable steps  to make Mr F aware the policy  was 
optional. Unfortunately, FICL hasnt been  able to provide a copy of Mr Fs application form. 
Which isnt surprising  given how long ago the sale took place, but its not possible for me to 
know exactly what was said at the time. But in my experience, the application form is likely to 
have had a section where applicants either  ticked or signed to say they wanted  PPI. Nothing 
Mr F has told me makes me think he saw anything different at the time. 
So on balance I think FICL made  it clear  that Mr F didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I understand why he cant remember  this.
FICL says advice wasnt given. So this meant it didnt have to check  the PPI was suitable for 
Mr F. But it did have  to make sure he got the information he needed to decide  if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Mr F says he didnt  have any sick pay benefits  from his employer.  It also doesnt look like he 
had any other means  such  as savings  to make his repayments.  So I think  it would have  
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. 
Ref: DRN11478492From everything Ive been given, it looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. And I dont think  Mr F 
has lost out from anything FICL might have done  wrong.
2002 sale
FICL says the PPI was sold during a telephone call. 
FICL says didnt recommend the policy to Mr F so it didnt have to make sure the PPI was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure he had enough information so he could make a 
choice about whether  he wanted the policy  or not. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, I dont think FICL gave Mr F clear  enough information 
about the policy. In particular  I dont  think it gave Mr F enough information  about the costs 
and benefits of the policy. I think  this would have mattered to Mr F because he says he had 
generous sick pay benefits  from his employer plus some savings, which means he could 
have met his card repayments for a while without the policy.  
Ive noted FICLs comments  that Mr Fs sick pay was unusually  generous.  However, Mr F 
has been consistent in his testimony  to us and it seems plausible given his role at the time. 
Without any conflicting evidence, I dont have  any reason to doubt what Mr F has told us. 
So overall, I think Mr F probably wouldnt have wanted the policy if hed properly understood 
the cost and benefits. 
This means  I dont  think Mr F wouldve  bought the policy if FICL had given him enough  
information about it. And I think Mr F has lost out because of what FICL did wrong.  
putting things right
FICL should put Mr F in the financial  position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI in 
2002.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr F would have owed when he closed his store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr F owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr F made  a successful  claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr F would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr F would have  owed each  month without PPI  Mr F 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
Ref: DRN11478493extra Mr F paid.  And it should carry on paying  interest until the point  when Mr F wouldve 
owed FICL  something  on his store card.  The interest  rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr F what  its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give   Mr F a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr F complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1147849