K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her an Additions 
Plus packaged bank account  in 2007.
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mrs Ds complaint and didnt think it should  be upheld.  Mrs D 
didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs D complaint. 
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint. And having done  so, Im 
not upholding Mrs D complaint. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs D was given a clear  choice in taking the account. 
At this point, it may help for me to explain  that I have to make  my decision based  on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened. And in working out what  I think  is most likely  to have 
happened, I have to think about everything Ive been  told together  with everything else Ive 
been provided with and see how this fits with what I do know. In other words, what  l have to 
do, in this case, is decide what I think is most likely  to have happened having  weighed up 
what Mrs D and Barclays have been  able to provide me with.  
Mrs D upgraded to the fee paying  Additions Plus account from a free one. And she did this 
at the same  time as switching another packaged she had with Barclays to a free one. So I 
think its likely that Mrs D wouldve known that Barclays did free accounts  and that she 
couldve had one of those if thats what she really  wanted. Overall  and having thought about 
everything Ive seen, I think its likely that Mrs D was given a clear choice on taking the 
Additions Plus account. And I think its most likely  she chose to take it as she, at the time, 
thought that the benefits included  might  prove  useful  to her.  
  
Barclays says that as the account was sold in branch it wouldnt have been  recommended  to 
Mrs D. And I havent seen anything to suggest  that a detailed assessment of Mrs Ds 
circumstances was carried out at the time of the sale, which is what  shouldve  happened if 
the account had been recommended. So I dont  think  that the account was recommended  to 
Mrs D. This means Barclays didnt have to check if the account  was right for Mrs D and it 
was up to her to decide this for herself  by thinking about what it came with and her 
circumstances at the time. 
But Barclays  did have to provide her with clear enough information to do this. I do think  its 
likely Mrs D was told about the main benefits  of the Additions Plus account  after all 
Barclays was trying to get her to pay for an account  when in all likelihood she knew she 
didnt have to. And telling her what shed get for the fee was probably the best way to do 
this.
When Mrs D agreed  to the Additions  Plus account,  the main benefits  it included were travel  
insurance, breakdown  cover and mobile phone  insurance and preferential  overdraft terms. 
Ref: DRN18225072Having looked  at Mrs Ds circumstances at the time,  Im satisfied that she couldve used 
most if not all of the benefits. Mrs D might not have needed to claim on the insurance.  But 
this doesnt mean that the account was mis-sold.  
Overall I think  its most likely that Mrs D was interested in and couldve used the main  
benefits on the Additions Plus account.  So while I dont think  she was told everything she 
needed to about all the ins and outs of the package, I do think that she received enough to 
know and understand what it was she was agreeing  to. And this means that I dont  think  that 
Barclays did anything significantly wrong here.  
Mrs D may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe  she hasnt benefitted from the account  
as much as shed hoped and expected to when she initially took it out. And given what  she 
mightve read and heard  about  packaged  bank accounts and shes had a complaint about  a 
different account  upheld,  I can understand why she might believe her account was mis-sold.  
But I think its likely that Mrs D chose to take the account having been told what it included  
and because she was interested  in, at least, some of the benefits. So although Mrs D may 
now think that the account hasnt  proved to be value for money  over the period  of time she 
had it, this doesnt mean it was mis-sold to her. 
I want to reassure Mrs D that Ive looked at all the information provided  about  her complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything shes said. Although having done so and while  I 
appreciate that this will be very disappointing  for her, I dont think  that Mrs D lost out 
because of anything  Barclays  mightve  done  when it sold Additions Plus account to her. So 
Im not upholding the complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1822507