K820x#14complaint
Mr H on behalf of Mr J complains  that a car supplied to him under  a finance agreement  with 
First Response Finance Ltd (FRF) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr J acquired  a used car in May 2016. The car had covered 82000 miles at the point of sale 
and was around four and a half years  old. The car cost £6430 which Mr J financed  with an 
agreement from FRF.
In August  2016  Mr J complained to FRF that the car had been  returned to the garage on a 
number of occasions for faults including issues with a bounce, noise and faulty fuel 
injectors. In addition Mr J said that the engine management light (EML) was on.
Arrangements were  made for the car to be inspected and in October 2016 an independent  
inspection by the RAC found no substantial faults.  In December 2016 FRF sent a final 
response letter to Mr J setting out that it did not uphold his complaint that the car was faulty 
from the point of sale and that any issues had been  due to reasonable wear and tear given 
the cars  age and mileage.
In August  2018  Mr J complained again to FRF and explained that the car had suffered an 
engine failure.  He said that this was because the car had not been  of satisfactory quality 
from the outset. Mr J explained that he had significant repair bills and was also now in 
arrears with his finance agreement. FRF arranged for an inspection and responded that the 
current problems with the car were not present at the point of sale and were because of 
wear and tear. Mr H on behalf of Mr J brought the complaint  to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think FRF had done anything wrong. Having looked at the age and 
mileage of the car and the miles  travelled  by Mr J he wasnt  able to conclude  that the fault 
that caused the breakdown was there  at the point of sale.
Mr H on behalf of Mr J didnt agree and replied to say in summary that Mr J had tried to 
reject the car three times and the faults  contributed to the overall breakdown. In addition he 
said that FRF had not been sympathetic to Mr Js financial position and charged interest 
after he had defaulted and had lent to him irresponsibly.  Mr H asked for an ombudsman to 
look at the complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I sympathise with Mr J and the financial  
and mechanical  difficulties he has had with his car.
FRF, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of satisfactory  
quality at the point Mr J bought it. Whether or not something is of satisfactory quality 
depends on a number of things such as the age and mileage of the car and the price that 
was paid for it. In Mr Js case the car was four and a half years old and had covered 82000  
miles. The car cost £6430. Satisfactory quality  also covers  durability  which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time but again 
that will depend on the age of the car and the amount  of miles covered.
Ref: DRN17594082Mr J has also referred  to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and his attempts to reject the 
car. I dont apply the law directly in the same  way that a court would approach  matters  but I 
do take it into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable.
I dont doubt that Mr J experienced problems with his car when he first bought  it. I can see 
from the evidence  provided that there  were  issues with the car that were addressed by the 
garage that Mr J bought  the car from. Mr J also raised his complaint with FRF in August 
2016 when he said that he wasnt happy with the repairs carried  out and the faults  found.
Mr J has said in his letter to FRF in August 2018  that he wasnt able to reject the car. The 
CRA provides 30 days to reject the car if it is not of satisfactory quality. After 30 days the 
business is allowed  the opportunity to repair the goods. Mr J says that the problem with the 
injectors arose 4-6 weeks after purchase. I havent  seen anything  that suggests that Mr J 
tried to reject the car within the 30 day period  as set out by the CRA and so I think  it is 
reasonable for the business to be allowed the opportunity  to repair  the car.
I can see that there were  issues  that were addressed by the supplying garage  and I dont  
doubt that these  were  inconvenient for Mr J. In August 2016 Mr J first raised his complaint 
with FRF and it appears that the only issue outstanding at that time was the bounce at the 
rear of the car which the dealership said was a normal characteristic of the car. Mr J says he 
is still having problems  with the car in October  2016.
I appreciate that Mr J says that much of the communication in the early days was with the 
supplying garage. I have  looked in detail at the complaint  notes made by FRF following the 
calls made  by Mr J and the first time Mr J mentions that he would have liked to reject the car 
is in October 2016 as the car is in the garage more than with him. At this point, following an 
independent inspection report by the RAC  on 25 October 2016, no significant  faults  were  
found that would persuade me that FRF should  have allowed Mr J to reject  the car.
FRF sent Mr J a detailed  final response  letter in December 2016  setting  out the reasons why 
it was not upholding his complaint and not accepting his rejection of the car. That letter  also 
set out that Mr J had the right to bring  his complaint to this service if he was not happy. In 
these circumstances  I cant  say that FRF did anything wrong. The inspections  that had been 
done by the dealership and the RAC  had not revealed any faults that would suggest that the 
car was not of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of sale.
The car had an MOT  test in May 2017 and had covered 24,500  miles since Mr J had bought 
the car. There were  no advisory issues other than a note that trays were  fitted.  This suggests  
that there  were no significant issues with the car at this point.
Mr J says that the car had a service  in 2017 but I havent seen any of the work  that was 
undertaken.
In May 2018  the car had a further  MOT  test and had covered  another  29,354 miles. There  
were issues  with tyres and bulbs  and it appears  that these were rectified and the car passed 
the MOT the following  day. I note that Mr J was advised that the engine  management  light 
was on at that MOT.
In August  2018  after the car had travelled around  9000 more miles there was an issue  with 
the head gasket. Following  repair  the turbo also failed and following that repair  it was 
discovered that the engine had failed.
Ref: DRN17594083Overall, I am not persuaded that the issues Mr J had with the car at the start in August 2016 
were responsible for the failure of the engine in 2018. I agree with the mechanic that 
inspected the car that if these issues had been  present at the point of sale then Mr J would 
not have been able to travel the 60,000  or so miles he has done.  I think it is more  likely that 
these issues developed over time and were as a result of wear and tear taking  into account 
the age and mileage of the car. So I cant say that the car was of unsatisfactory  quality at the 
point of sale.
Mr J says that his complaint about  unaffordable lending hasnt been taken into consideration. 
I cant see that he has raised that with the business  or given it an opportunity to respond.  I 
havent seen anything that suggests  Mr J shouldnt have been  given the finance.  Mr J says 
he is now in financial difficulty and I would expect FRF to respond positively and 
sympathetically to any difficulty. I would  suggest that Mr J contacts FRF to try and reach an 
affordable repayment  plan for any money that he owes.
If Mr J is not happy with the way FRF have responded or that he has a complaint that the 
lending was unaffordable  then he would need  to complain about that to FRF first.
I am sorry  that this is not the outcome  Mr J was hoping for but I cant ask FRF to do any 
more. 
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject  my decision 
before 7 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1759408