K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained about their lifetime mortgage with Aviva Equity Release UK 
Limited. 
They wanted  to downsize, but found  out theyd have to pay a large payment to Aviva. Theyd 
understood when  theyd  originally taken out the lifetime mortgage  that theyd be able to 
move home without paying such a lot of money.
background
Mr and Mrs M saw an Aviva adviser about taking out a lifetime mortgage  in September 2012. 
They were  moving home, and buying  a property  for £318,500. They wanted to borrow 
£103,513 towards  the move. With a lifetime mortgage, they wouldnt have to make any 
repayments, and interest  would  build up until they died or moved into long-term  care.
The advisers letter to Mr and Mrs M recorded  that they had £111,700 in savings. They 
planned to use around £38,000  of this towards the new property, which was more  expensive 
than their current one. They were also planning a conservatory, new car, carpets and 
curtains for the new property, and a caravan in the place they liked going on holiday.  They  
also wanted to keep back £6,000 for emergencies, and another £6,000 for caravan site fees 
for the next three years.  
The letter also said theyd discussed  other options,  such as using existing savings, moving 
to a smaller home, or an ordinary mortgage  or loan. The letter says the ordinary mortgage 
was ruled out because  of cost, as the adviser had calculated the likely cost at around £295 a 
month. 
The letter went on to say:
A lifetime mortgage is not suitable for raising  money for the short term. Its designed to last 
for the rest of your life or until you need  to move into long term care.  It can be expensive  if 
you repay the loan at any time before this, as you may have to pay a substantial early 
repayment charge  of up to 25% of the original loan and up to 25% of any additional 
borrowing you have taken.
You must receive independent  legal  advice.
The letter also talked about what would  happen if Mr and Mrs M moved house, though the 
advisers notes said that Mr and Mrs M planned  to stay in their new home  for the rest of their 
lives, and would always modify it if they had to. The letter said:
You can move house at any time but you must  inform us first. The lifetime mortgage can be 
moved to the new property but only if it meets our lending criteria. If you want  to move  to a 
property of lower value, we may ask for a repayment of a portion of your original loan and 
interest. If you want to move to a property of higher value, you may be able to take out 
additional borrowing, however this is not guaranteed.
There was more about a possible future move in the Key Facts document,  and in the 
mortgage Offer. These  said :
Ref: DRN12044672If you move  home and want to transfer this lifetime  mortgage to your new property, you can 
do so if your new property meets our lending criteria. You will have to pay an application fee 
but not an early  repayment charge. If your new property is of a lower value, we may ask you 
to repay  part of the amount you owe. If you move  home and your new property does not 
meet our lending criteria,  you must  repay this lifetime mortgage. You may have to pay an 
early repayment charge.   Another part of the document set out how early repayment 
charges worked  and gave some examples of the sums which could be involved.
Mr and Mrs Ms solicitor  sent Aviva the normal certificate required for lifetime mortgages. 
This said that hed explained the terms and conditions to Mr and Mrs M. It said he was acting 
independently of Aviva  and had acted and advised in the best interest of his client.
Mr and Mrs M went ahead  with the lifetime mortgage and completed  in November 2012.
In late 2018, Mr and Mrs M wanted  to downsize, and they approached Aviva about 
transferring their lifetime  mortgage. Their property had increased in value and they told Aviva 
the possible selling price was £375,000. But they were shocked to hear that if they bought a 
cheaper property, Aviva  would require  a part repayment. This was likely to be substantial  
for example if they bought  a property for £300,000 theyd have to repay Aviva almost  
£43,000. There would also be extra  costs  such as valuation fees for both their current and 
future property, and application  fees. 
Mr and Mrs M said Avivas original  advisor  had just told them it would be possible to move,  
and hadnt said anything about  these  costs. They felt that because  the adviser was Avivas,  
and not independent, he might have deliberately not told them.  Mr and Mrs M said they 
wouldnt have taken  out the mortgage  if theyd known. They said this had been such a shock  
to them,  that it had made them ill.
Aviva didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It said that all customers had to take financial 
advice before taking  out a lifetime mortgage.  The adviser had made  Mr and Mrs M aware of 
any alternative ways of raising the capital they needed, and had sent a letter confirming the 
reasons for recommending the mortgage. Aviva  said Mr and Mrs M had been asked to 
contact their solicitor to discuss the documents  and it was the solicitors responsibility  to 
make sure clients  understood them.
Aviva said that the documents had confirmed Mr and Mrs M could move  at any time, and the 
lifetime mortgage could be transferred if the new property met Avivas  lending requirements. 
It said that the illustration  and the advisers letter had both said that if they moved to a 
property of a lower value,  Aviva could ask Mr and Mrs M to repay  part of the amount they 
owed. 
Aviva also said Mr and Mrs M had been  asked to make an appointment with their solicitor  to 
discuss them. And theyd  then signed to say they wanted to go ahead. So Aviva said the 
recommendation to take the lifetime  mortgage  had been suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time.
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied and asked this service to help. They said they didnt know 
Avivas adviser had been a financial adviser,  and at no point had they been told to obtain 
and independent financial adviser.  They thought any profit from the sale of the property 
would go towards  moving expenses and stamp duty.  They said theyd found  out that in order  
to avoid making a large early repayment,  theyd have to buy a new property for the same 
price as their existing one. This would have put them into a higher bracket for stamp  duty, as 
Ref: DRN12044673well as valuation costs  on both properties. They couldnt get out of their current Aviva  
mortgage, because  of the high cost which would mean there wouldnt be enough money left 
to buy themselves another property. And then there was the penalty clause on top.
Mr and Mrs M said this was so different to how it was marketed  about not paying anything  
until they die. They said it had become  a living nightmare and said that if theyd been told 
anything about  this, they wouldnt have  gone ahead with taking out the lifetime mortgage.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. He noted that the documents  had 
said that if Mr and Mrs M moved to a property of lower value, they could be asked to repay 
part of the amount they owed. So Aviva  had provided the correct information  at the time. 
The adjudicator agreed that it wasnt unreasonable that Mr and Mrs M had assumed that if 
they moved, the new property would have to be for a minimum of £317,000  what theyd 
bought their current property for. But he explained  that what the lender was concerned  about  
was Mr and Mrs Ms current mortgage balance and their current property value. 
The adjudicator said the documents indicated that, at the time, Mr and Mrs M hadnt planned 
to move,  but if they had intended to move, they could  have  discussed  this with the adviser. 
And he felt it was clear  the adviser  worked  for Aviva, because  this was set out at the start of 
his letter,  and also because his job title said he was a Financial Consultant with Aviva. So 
the adjudicator  thought Mr and Mrs M knew the adviser was tied to Aviva, and that they 
could get independent  legal and financial advice.
The adjudicator explained that the reason lifetime mortgages worked in the way they did was 
that there  are risks to a lender when no payments are made towards the debt. To deal with 
this, the lender closely links borrowing to the loan to value of the property. Loan to value is 
the percentage of the value which the customer borrows. Lifetime mortgage providers 
therefore say the loan to value must stay the same when moving. Otherwise  the lender 
would have extra risk if it allowed  the same borrowing  for a cheaper property.
Mr and Mrs M were  still unhappy. They said they hadnt signed anything  to say theyd  have 
to buy at the same price  theyd sell their current property for. Nor had they been  told 
verbally. Theyd understood that when they downsized, theyd have to buy a property for the 
same price  theyd bought  that property for  not what it was now worth. That was the value 
that Aviva  had lent on. It wasnt  stated anywhere that if your house gained  in value, that gain 
was Avivas too, and unless you bought  the next property at the higher value, youd have to 
pay back a substantial amount. They felt it was a con, and not down in black  and white and 
easily misinterpreted. 
Mr and Mrs M also said their solicitor  had just signed the form, and they hadnt had any 
independent advice. 
They felt this was just not fair, and wasnt right.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr and Mrs M are very distressed  about the situation  they find themselves in. 
Theyve said that the anxiety is making  them ill, and I appreciate  they feel that they really 
Ref: DRN12044674hadnt been told in 2012 everything that they needed to know  about what might happen in 
future. As the value  of their property has risen  since 2012, and they wanted to downsize, 
theyd have to pay a great deal of money  to Aviva, as Ive set out above..  
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs M, and I accept that they really didnt realise that this could 
happen. But my job is to look at whether Aviva was at fault for not doing what  the rules  say it 
had to.
I wasnt present at the meeting in 2012,  and what matters is what the documents  say. So 
Ive looked at all available  documents carefully.  And they dont show that Aviva  failed to 
meet any of the rules about lifetime  mortgages.  Key points are that:
-the illustration and the offer both say that if Mr and Mrs M moved  to a cheaper property, 
they might have to repay some of what they owe. And the examples given show  that this 
could be a lot of money.
-At the start of the Aviva advisers letter  of 5 September, he wrote: Id like to remind you 
that Im only able to give advice  on Aviva products and not those of other  providers.  
And his job title where he signed  the letter  was Financial Consultant, Aviva UK. 
-In the advisers  letter  to Mr and Mrs M dated 5 September 2012, there is a paragraph 
under the heading  please remember the following important points we discussed which 
says you must  receive independent  legal advice.  Theres  no requirement  for 
independent financial  advice, though  Mr and Mrs M could have obtained this elsewhere if 
theyd wished.
I do realise that the way lifetime mortgages  work  is complicated, and I sympathise with Mr 
and Mrs M. But all I can do is look at whether or not Aviva met the legal and regulatory 
requirements when  it lent to Mr and Mrs M. It sent them the correct documents; its adviser  
went through alternatives to a lifetime mortgage;  and the documents set out that they might 
have to repay some of what they owe if they moved to a cheaper property. So its not open 
to me to say that Aviva did anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1204467