K820x#14complaint
Miss A and Mr P complain about the way NRAM Limited has handled their request to 
remove Miss A from their joint mortgage.  Miss A and Mr P complain that NRAMs 
responsible for unnecessary delays and that this had led to financial loss and inconvenience  
for them both.
background
Miss A and Mr P have a together mortgage,  held jointly. It was taken out with Northern 
Rock. Since  taking out the mortgage,  Miss A and Mr P have separated. The mortgage  has 
also passed from Northern Rock to NRAM during the mortgage  term.
Miss A and Mr P have agreed that Miss A should be removed from the mortgage. Mr P and 
his new partner have  applied to take over the mortgage on a joint basis.
Miss A initially brought this complaint to us having  complained to NRAM about  its actions 
and treatment of her. Mr P has since joined this complaint at our request because it involves 
a mortgage held jointly.
Miss A and Mr P say that its primarily NRAMs fault that its taken years for Miss A to be 
removed from the mortgage  and that this still hasnt been done.  Miss A first asked NRAM 
how she could go about getting her name removed from the mortgage in 2016,  and shes 
still waiting for this to be formalised. 
Miss A and Mr P say, if it hadnt  been  for NRAM, this change  of party  request could have 
been agreed a long time ago. They say NRAM  has lost paperwork, hasnt sent things  to 
Miss A that it said it had, and has generally provided a poor level of customer  service  and 
administration. 
Most of this complaint has been brought  by Miss A. Mr P has added his comments  on the 
matter more recently. Mr Ps said he isnt without fault but he thinks  NRAM could have made 
the whole  process  clearer.
Miss A complained to NRAM on 19 April 2018  and it gave its final response on the matter  
days later on 24 April 2018.  NRAM didnt  think it had caused delays and didnt uphold the 
complaint. Miss A brought the matter  to us. Our investigator looked into things.  He found that 
NRAM had struggled  to locate papers sent to it by Mr P at one point but he didnt think 
NRAM was responsible for the overall  delays in having Miss A removed from the mortgage. 
Miss A and Mr P disagreed and asked that an ombudsman look at the matter  again.
During the course of this complaint, Miss A has said that she thinks  she and Mr P should 
never have  been  given  this together mortgage by Northern Rock in the first place. Miss As 
said it was irresponsible  lending  by Northern Rock and its caused  problems  for her and Mr P 
over the years.  Thats  a new issue thats  outside  the scope of this investigation. Miss A will 
need to raise this complaint with NRAM if shes unhappy about what happened when she 
and Mr P took out the mortgage.
Ref: DRN10415472my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself in broad 
agreement with our investigator. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to say I can sympathise with Miss As situation and I can see why shes 
frustrated with how long it is taking for her to be removed from this mortgage. It is very 
unusual that it would  take so long for a change of borrower application to be completed.  
Miss As explained the impact this has had on her and her ability  to get another  mortgage 
elsewhere. Im mindful of this wider situation and the consequences for Miss A.
Our investigator has already given a detailed  account of the contact between parties in his 
view. All the parties have seen a copy of that letter, so I wont repeat the details here. The 
broad timeline of events isnt in dispute, although Miss A has asked us to give more  detail on 
exactly when Mr P and his new partner sent forms back to NRAM, and when NRAM sent 
forms to them.
Miss As been told by NRAM that she cant remove herself from this mortgage.  Shes  reliant 
on Mr P (and his new partner)  making  a successful application to take over the mortgage 
debt together  on a joint basis. NRAMs  said its only once this has been approved that it is 
willing to remove Miss A from the mortgage.  While this is problematic for Miss A, I think  this 
is a reasonable  stance  for NRAM to take.  And I can see from the contact history that NRAM 
did explain  this would  be the process to be followed in 2016. 
Miss A and Mr P are joint borrowers  under  the mortgage, at least  for the period of time 
covered by this complaint. However,  the wider  circumstances  also involve an application  for 
the mortgage borrowing to be transferred to Mr P and his new partner. 
The change of party  application involves Mr Ps new partner who is not a party to this 
complaint. Im conscious of the rules  around data protection. I consider it would be 
inappropriate for me to divulge  any details about  the third party, or their joint mortgage 
application with Mr P, within this complaint.
While I havent disclosed that information  here, Id like to reassure Miss A that Ive looked at 
everything thats happened  in considerable detail over the past few years,  since Miss A first 
spoke with NRAM on the matter in 2016.  Ive read the detailed  contact history notes 
provided by NRAM, which  charts every communication  between  Mr P and Miss A and 
NRAM. It also records contact with solicitors  and third parties. And Ive thought  about 
everything Miss A and Mr P have said on the matter. 
This complaint is directed  at NRAM. Ive considered whether it appears that NRAM has been  
the cause of the delays here.  Having  looked  at the evidence available  to me, I dont think  
NRAM has caused protracted delays. Im satisfied that NRAM appears  to have acted upon 
the requests made of it and its acted  with appropriate pace to try to support this change to 
the mortgage. Im not persuaded that NRAM  is solely responsible  for the request for a 
change of parties taking  the length  of time that it has.
Thats not to say NRAM has had no part in delays. NRAM did struggle to trace  some  
documents Mr P sent it in July 2017 for a couple of weeks.  But in the greater scheme of 
things, I consider this to be a minor delay and time that could have been recovered.  It isnt 
the reason things have not progressed years later. 
Ref: DRN10415473I also think NRAM could have done more to update Miss A, knowing how important it is for 
her to be removed from the mortgage. While I think NRAMs  communication with Miss A 
could have been better, I dont think that this shortcoming is enough to change the outcome 
of this complaint.
Having looked  at the wider situation, and following the series of events that have led to this 
point, I dont think it would be fair to hold NRAM responsible for the fact that the change  of 
parties hasnt been put in place in a more timely manner.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1041547