K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the quotation he received from Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) to settle a finance  agreement he had with them.
background
Mr M entered into a hire purchase  agreement  with VWFS in November 2018. The 
agreement financed the receipt  of a new car.
Mr M subsequently  discovered that he could finance the car cheaper elsewhere  so he asked 
VWFS for a settlement quotation. Hes unhappy that within  that settlement they included 58 
days of additional  interest.  VWFS  explained that the Consumer Credit  (Early Settlement) 
Regulations (2004)  entitled them to make  this charge. But Mr M says that the legislation 
wasnt referred to in the finance agreement hed signed with the business and insisted they 
werent therefore entitled to charge it.
So he referred his complaint  to this service and our adjudicator provided his opinion. He 
explained that the business didnt need  to refer explicitly to the relevant legislation  in their 
terms and conditions but that the terms and conditions did explain that a statutory rebate 
would be added to any settlement. He said this rebate was developed in the Consumer 
Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations  (2004) which said the settlement date could be the 
date falling 28 days after which notice was received by the creditor   and a deferment of 
settlement date of 30 days  could  be applied. He noted that Mr M hadnt settled the account 
within 14 days so the interest couldnt  be waived as the regulation allowed. So overall, he 
thought VWFS had been reasonable when applying the relevant legislation and he didnt  
think they needed to take any further  action.
But Mr M disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr M so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable to expect VWFS to refer to every  piece  of 
potentially relevant legislation in the terms and conditions of the finance  agreement.  Here,  I 
can see that theyve  referred to the addition of a statutory  rebate  (clause  7.2).
Ref: DRN16987832This statutory rebate  is set out in the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 
(2004). Which says the settlement date shall be taken to be:
the date falling 28 days after the date on which the notice was received by the creditor
It goes on to explain that where the agreement provides  for the credit  to be repaid over a 
period of more  than a year (as was the case here) the settlement  date may be deferred by:
a)one month, or 
b)where the length of a months deferment  would be more or less than 30 days and the 
creditor so elects, 30 days
So legislation allowed VWFS to set a settlement date 28 days  after they received notice and 
to defer  this by a further 30 days, making 58 in all. 
I therefore think VWFSs application  of the relevant law has been correct  and I think  theyve 
been fair and reasonable in applying it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1698783