K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) unfairly refused a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance  policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes its agents  and claims handlers. 
Background
Mr T made a claim on his policy to cover the legal  costs  of a dispute  with a company hed 
hired to install  loft installation and fit a new patio door. 
Aviva referred the claim to one of its panel  firms of solicitors. They  advised  that whilst  there  
was potentially a reasonable chance  of the claim being successful in court, it was unlikely 
the defendants would  be able to pay any award  made against them. 
Because of this legal  advice, Aviva declined  the claim. Mr T felt this was unfair as he has a 
valid claim which is likely to win. He subsequently  submitted a claim to his bank  to try and 
get his money  back under  the chargeback  scheme,  but this was out of time. He feels  that 
Aviva have caused delays resulting in him being  unable to claim elsewhere. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint. She felt Aviva had declined  the claim in accordance  
with the policy terms and conditions. She was also satisfied that Aviva hadnt  caused any 
delays and that it wasnt its role to give advice on bank  processes.
As Mr T disagreed with our investigator, the case has been passed  to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say that if a claim is accepted, Aviva will appoint  a solicitor to assess how 
likely the claim  is to win. It says the claim must  have  reasonable prospects of success which  
it defines as being more  likely  than not that [you]  will recover  damages.  
Avivas panel firm of solicitors have provided a tracker report  which gives  the financial 
position of the defendant. This shows that theyre  at high risk of becoming insolvent  and they 
already had five unsatisfied  county  court judgments  against them.  The solicitors said that 
even if Mr T won his case, its unlikely than he would recover  any money because the 
defendants had no funds to pay it. An insurer is entitled to rely on legal advice,  unless its 
obviously wrong. Theres nothing to suggest  this advice  is wrong.
The legal expenses  policy  will provide  cover  for legal costs to pursue claims that satisfy  its 
terms and conditions. In Mr Ts case, the legal advice is that it doesnt. So Aviva are entitled 
to refuse  the claim. We wouldnt expect an insurer to pay legal costs to pursue  a claim when 
its most  likely that there will be no chance of Mr T  or Aviva   receiving any money back  in 
return.
Should Mr T disagree with the outcome of the solicitors  assessment, he can obtain a legal 
opinion at his own expense. Without legal advice confirming that this case does have 
Ref: DRN13350732reasonable prospects of recovery on the evidence available, Mr T isnt entitled to cover. So 
Im satisfied that Aviva has dealt  with the claim  fairly  and in line with the policy terms.
Ive also looked  at whether Aviva caused any delays when dealing  with this claim. Im 
satisfied it instructed solicitors as soon as it had received the information needed from Mr T. 
After which, the claim was with its solicitors  to progress. 
I appreciate that by the time Mr T raised  this as a chargeback  to his bank, hed missed the 
120 day deadline.  But as our investigator  has already explained, we wouldnt expect an 
insurer to give their customers  advice about  bank processes.  Mr T chose to submit a claim 
on his legal expenses  insurance to pursue this matter  through  the courts. So Id expect Aviva 
to deal with the claim in line with the policy terms  which it has. It was for Mr T to decide 
whether he wanted  to explore other options  available to him outside  of the court  system or 
contact his bank  to discuss the situation with them. 
I know its been a difficult time for Mr T and my decision will be very disappointing for him. I 
cant comment on the underlying dispute; I can only look at whether Aviva has dealt with his 
insurance claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. And for the reasons  given, Im 
satisfied it has.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding the complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1335073