K821x#15complaint
Mr H and Mrs S say Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G)  unfairly  declined  their claim 
on their home insurance policy.
background
An agent  visited Mr H and Mrs S from their water supplier in April this year. He said a leak 
had been traced to their property. The leak was identified as coming  from a pipe embedded 
in concrete under the kitchen floor area. Mr H and Mrs S say this was the first time they were 
aware there  was a leak. The agent  said they had 30 days to fix the leak or risk being  taken  
to court.
Mr H and Mrs S had two policies that could cover the repair of the pipe. They  had a buildings  
insurance policy with L&G,  and a home emergency policy  with another  insurer.  They  chose 
the other insurer to complete the repair, as there was no excess on that policy. The repair 
was completed by rerouting the pipe.
Mr H and Mrs S then made a claim  with L&G for the damage caused  by the escape of water. 
L&G sent a surveyor  to Mr H and Mrs S property  to obtain a quote for the repair  costs.
The surveyor provided a report of the damage  caused which  included:
Water  damage to the plaster, including rusty  plaster trims
Damage to the skirting boards and walls, including delaminating dcor
Mould and heavy staining on the vinyl flooring
The surveyor concluded the damage had been going on for several months,  and 
recommended the claim be declined as the damage  began before the policy  started. L&G 
then referred Mr H and Mrs S to their previous insurer.
Mr H and Mrs S disagreed with the surveyors assessment. They  said they didnt think  the 
damage up to the point  the leak was found  was serious enough  to investigate further. So 
they asked our service  to look at the complaint.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said L&G would be responsible  for any damage 
that occurred  since  the policy started. And, if it was unable to distinguish  between the 
damage that happened before and after the policy started, it needed to complete a lasting  
and effective repair of all the damage.
L&G disagreed with the investigator.  It maintained  its position  that the damage occurred 
before the policy cover  started, and it also said that the damage was ongoing  and a result of 
the original leak.  So it didnt think it was liable for any of the damage caused.
As L&G disagreed  with the investigator, the complaints been  passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional findings on the 29 November 2018. In summary  I said I wasnt 
intending to uphold Mr H and Mrs S complaint. 
I said I didnt think it was fair for L&G to decline the claim under its pre-inception exclusion. I 
said this was because  it was likely that some of the damage happened whilst the policy  was 
Ref: DRN16856482in force.  And whilst I appreciated  it was likely  the leak started  before the policy start date, the 
claim was made to cover the damage  caused by the insured event, not the event itself.  
But based  on the damage Id seen I thought it was fair for L&G to decline the claim under its 
gradual operating  cause  exclusion. After reviewing  photographs  of the property, I thought  
there was sufficient damage to give Mr H and Mrs S an indication that something was wrong,  
and if the cause had been identified earlier, the impact of the leak wouldve been  reduced.
developments
Mr H and Mrs S responded  to my provisional  decision. They disagreed  with the outcome and 
provided further evidence to support  their complaint. In particular,  about  whether they knew,  
or ought to have  known there  was a problem such as a leak sooner. They  also provided a 
report from a contractor  whod done a number  of maintenance  jobs on the property.
In summary  Mr H and Mrs S said:
The property was in the middle  of being  redecorated when the surveyor assessed the 
kitchen. 
Their plasterer said the original plastering  left no breathing space when the skirting 
board was put back on. This caused the plaster  to bubble.  The plasterer didnt  find a 
leak when he investigated further.  
The flooring  had been down  for a number of years so they thought the marks were  
due to wear and tear. They also bought a black mat to cover the floor and thought it 
could be residue for that also
Theyve said the assessor  took photos  from the back door facing  the kitchen, but the 
leak was in front of the kitchen cooker
The whole experience has left them extremely stressed
I provided this evidence to L&G and asked  if it wanted to reconsider its position.  L&G 
reviewed the report and said it would continue to decline the claim. Its main reasons  were:
The report provided by the contractor was written almost a year after they visited  the 
property
The surveyors report was more detailed and backed up by supporting  photographs
The damage listed by the surveyor wasnt consistent with the damage,  or cause of 
damage mentioned  in the contractors report
The issues had clearly  been  ongoing  for several  months and the consumers  didnt 
take sufficient steps to maintain the property
The damaged  areas  were already  compromised prior to the policy commencing
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ill now be upholding this 
complaint, and Ill explain my reasons why below.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought it was unfair for L&G to decline the 
claim as pre-inception.  And Ive seen nothing from the additional evidence and comments 
provided to change my opinion on this. 
Ref: DRN16856483But I have thought again about whether it would be fair for L&G to decline the claim under its 
gradual operating  cause  exclusion and whether it applies. I want to reassure both parties  
that Ive thought carefully about  this, and Ive fully considered all the additional points theyve 
raised.
Ive considered whether there  was enough evidence to show  Mr H and Mrs S took 
reasonable steps to investigate the signs  of the particular problem, and whether they took 
reasonable action to stop it from getting worse. The contractors report  states                      
Mr H and Mrs S made him aware of the issue of peeling paint in January 2018. The 
contractor did a number  of investigations including removing a part of the skirting  board, 
checking the underlying  plaster,  and lifting a section of the floor. He stated the areas  
appeared dry with no odour. He did notice a small  damp area at the bottom  of a wall but 
stated the areas either side were dry. He suggested to Mr H and Mrs S the areas  could be 
getting damp from occasional spillages of water  from nearby cat bowls, and due to poor 
ventilation, the area was unlikely to dry quickly. He didnt recommend  any further action be 
taken.
Mr H and Mrs Ss testimony has been consistent throughout this complaint, and I see no 
reason to doubt the report provided by their contractor. I am satisfied that investigations  
were carried  out in January 2018.  The contractor was a trusted professional who had done a 
number of jobs for Mr H and Mrs S over the years, so I think  it was reasonable for them to 
accept his recommendations and take no further action at this time.
When Mr H and Mrs S did become aware of the problem, they contacted  the insurers 
immediately and got the repairs done quickly  within  a few days. So theres  no evidence to 
suggest they left it to get worse, and increase  the area of damage once they were  aware.
I appreciate L&Gs comments  about the damage being ongoing for some months, and from 
the beginning of this complaint, neither party has disputed this. The surveyors report  was 
produced some time after the contractor visited the property, so its highly likely the damage 
would be worse at this point as the leak had only recently been identified.  But I dont think a 
gap of three to four months is unreasonable for Mr H and Mrs S to take no further action 
after theyd been  reassured things were  ok in January.
Ultimately my role is to decide if Mr H and Mrs S took reasonable steps to identify the cause 
of the problem. And based on the investigations done in January, I dont think there was 
anything more they couldve done to mitigate the damage at that point.
So having  looked at everything, I dont think it was fair for L&G to decline the claim as pre-
inception, or due to a gradual operating cause.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Legal & General Insurance Limited  must  settle  the claim  in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions
If Legal & General Insurance Limited  decides to settle by cash then it must add 8% simple  
interest from the date the claim was made, to the date of settlement ;
Ref: DRN16856484 Income tax may be payable on any interest  paid.  If Legal & General Insurance  Limited 
deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Mr H and Mrs S how much  has been taken 
off. Legal & General Insurance  Limited should  give Mr H and Mrs S a tax deduction 
certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019
Dan Prevett
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1685648