K820x#14complaint
Mr F and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
In 1999, Mr F and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Halifax and also took out a PPI policy to 
protect it.
In 2002, Mr F and Mrs S replaced their mortgage,  and replaced  their PPI policy too. The new 
policy was part of a package called a Total  Mortgage  Protection  Plan, or TMPP for short.
Mr F and Mrs S paid for each policy with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract  
interest. Each policy covered Mr F and Mrs Ss mortgage payments in case  either of them 
was off work  sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr F and Mrs Ss case. 
Having done that, Ive not found  that these PPI policies were mis-sold   Ill explain why.
Mr F and Mrs Ss 1999  mortgage  application  had a section  for PPI. It only recommended 
they thought about it, and offered them more details if theyd like. There  was a box they 
could sign if they wanted PPI, which could  be left blank if they didnt want  it. Mr F and Mrs S 
signed for the policy, separately to signing the application as a whole. They  also signed and 
submitted a separate application  specifically for PPI, which set out the policys  cost 
separately to the mortgages cost, and not as something that was automatically  included.
Unfortunately, Halifax hasnt been  able to find all the relevant paperwork for the 2002 sale, 
which is understandable given just how long ago it was. But we have seen sample copies 
showing the way these policies were sold around the time. From those, it looks like the PPI 
wouldve only been added if Mr F and Mrs S actively chose it. Its cost wouldve been set out 
separately to the mortgages cost, rather than as something that was necessarily included. 
And I can see Mr F and Mrs S later claimed on the PPI, so it looks  like they knew  they had it.
Overall, I think its most likely that Halifax made Mr F and Mrs S aware they had a choice 
about buying each policy, and that they chose  to take it on both occasions  though I can 
understand if they no longer remember doing so after all the time thats passed.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr F and Mrs S on both occasions, so it had to check each 
policy was right for them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time of 
each sale, I think the policies were. For example, Mr F and Mrs S were eligible for each 
policy and dont seem  to have been affected  by any of the main  exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN11577892While Mr F and Mrs S may have had some limited benefits through  work, both PPI policies 
covered them for far longer than those wouldve lasted, and wouldve paid out on top of their 
work benefits. They also had some  limited savings, but those wouldve only lasted a 
relatively short time if needed to cover one or both of their incomes.  The PPI offered them 
more comprehensive  cover,  and it also meant  Mr F and Mrs S could protect their savings 
and use them for other  things. Its worth bearing  in mind that if Mr F and Mrs S fell behind  on 
their mortgage payments,  they risked  losing their home. It looks like the PPI policies couldve 
really been useful for them  in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind. 
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr F and Mrs S about  PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr F and Mrs S werent  affected by any of 
the main things the policies didnt cover, and the PPI couldve really been  useful for them  in 
case something went wrong. Ive not seen any indication that either  policy was unaffordable.  
And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly  basis, so Mr F and Mrs S could cancel it at any 
time without  a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely  to have put 
them off taking out the cover on either  occasion.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr F and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1157789