K821x#15complaint
M, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC debited  money  from its Euro account 
instead of its US dollar account. This resulted in currency exchange and other  costs.  M is 
represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr B. Mr B says Lloyds error left M with an 
overdraft and wants M to be allowed to repay it without interest or charges. 
background
M has three business accounts with Lloyds denominated in Sterling, Euros  and US dollars. 
In September  2016 M instructed Lloyds to make a transfer from its US dollar account. It 
wanted to convert  the payment to Sterling with a third party currency exchange  business  and 
transfer it to its Sterling account. Lloyds made  an error. It made the payment from Ms Euro 
account. Mr B says Ms directors didnt  notice the error  for several  months. 
Mr B says Lloyds error had a number of consequences.  Ms Euro  account was overdrawn 
for several  months. M incurred exchange rate costs when funds from the Euro  account were  
converted to US dollars. There remained  a large  balance in the US dollar account. Thinking 
M had received  a payment  from a client, M made two payments from its US dollar account in 
December 2016.  When the mistake  was discovered  in March 2017, Lloyds reversed the 
transaction from September 2016. This left the US dollar account  overdrawn by about 
US$17,000. 
Lloyds paid compensation of £310  for the inconvenience and the costs  of Ms calls. Mr B 
says that while Lloyds says it reversed its error, it isnt clear  that all of the costs have been 
refunded. And hed like Lloyds to agree a plan for M to repay the overdraft without  incurring 
interest and charges.
The investigator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He said Lloyds should 
refund any interest  and charges already  incurred  and allow M to repay the debt over three 
months without any interest or charges. 
M agreed. Lloyds  didnt agree. It said it sent letters to M about the overdrawn position of the 
Euro account in December 2016.  Lloyds  said it didnt  feel it should have to intervene with 
repayment of the overdraft as M had the benefit  of the funds. It said this would require 
transferring Ms accounts to its business support unit who deal with customers  in financial 
difficulty which might  not be what M wanted. Lloyds said Ms accounts  show regular income 
and no sign of financial difficulty.
my provisional decision
I didnt agree with all of the investigators recommendations. So I sent a provisional  decision 
to the parties  to explain why. In it, I set out the following provisional findings:
Lloyds accepts it made an error in September 2016  when it made a payment from Ms 
Euro account instead of its US dollar  account.  
In March 2017, Lloyds made corrections intended  to put the two accounts  into the 
position they would have  been in if the payment had been made from the US dollars. It 
says it reversed the payment from the Euro account  using the same  exchange  rate and 
refunded the interest it had debited.
Ref: DRN17064022Lloyds then debited  the payment from the US dollar  account. I think  debiting  the payment 
from the US dollar  account was correct  in principle. But six months had passed since the 
original error  and the account balance had changed. The US dollar  account  became 
overdrawn without an agreed  facility. Lloyds is applying interest to the debt.
Mr B says none of Ms accounts have overdraft  facilities and the directors  check theres a 
sufficient balance before  they make payments. He says M receives large  payments  from 
clients into its US dollar account so they didnt  question  the balance  before making 
payments from the account in December 2016.  Mr B says they rarely  use the Euro 
account and dont often check it. When they received paper statements for the Euro 
account they knew there had been  an error. But they didnt know how the error had come 
about. I think Mr Bs explanation for why he didnt  notice  the error  is credible.
Lloyds says it sent a letter  of concern to M in December 2016. But it cant provide a copy 
of the letter.  I asked Mr B whether hed received the letters but he didnt respond to the 
question. Without knowing  what the letter said, I dont  think  I can reasonably  find that it 
should have alerted Mr B to the error  with the accounts.
Customers do have responsibility for managing their accounts.  M had the benefit of the 
money and I think it should  repay the debt.  But, Lloyds made an error  that led to the 
current position. I think Lloyds should  have considered how the debit from the US dollar 
account would affect M and its accounts. In the circumstances, I think Lloyds should have 
contacted M with a view to agreeing  a reasonable period for M to repay the debt without 
incurring charges or interest. 
In March 2017 Ms US dollar  account was overdrawn  by US$17,000. Mr B told our 
investigator in early 2018 that M would be able to repay the overdraft in about three 
months. I understand  in November 2018 there  was an outstanding balance of about 
US$13,000. 
Mr B says the overdraft  hasnt been paid off due to the high rate of interest being applied. 
He says M didnt agree to an overdraft and it should  be able to repay the overdraft without  
interest or charges. But I think if M was able to repay the overdraft (excluding the interest  
element that was in dispute) within three  months  it ought to have made efforts  to do so. 
Both parties  have expressed strong views  and Ive thought carefully about what  should 
happen now to resolve this matter in a way thats fair to both parties. I think Lloyds  should  
refund interest  and charges  related  to the overdraft and applied to Ms US dollar account 
between 8 March  2017 (the date it made the debit  that took the account  overdrawn)  and 
14 May 2018 (three months and two weeks after our investigator sent his 
recommendations to the parties).
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances  to order Lloyds to refund or 
waive interest and charges after 15 May 2018.  The available evidence suggests M could 
have repaid the overdraft by this date.  
Mr B didnt agree. He said hed asked Lloyds at the outset for a plan to repay the debt 
without interest. Lloyds refused this. Mr B asks on what basis  would M proceed  to repay the 
overdraft? Mr B says if Lloyds had wanted  the overdraft repaid as soon  as possible it would 
have accepted his offer. He said about  a third of the debt has been repaid, which 
demonstrates the efforts  made. He said its not at all unreasonable for Lloyds to refund 
interest and charges after May 2018  or at least reduce the interest  rate.
Ref: DRN17064023Lloyds didnt respond. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ive considered what Mr B has said. I agree that matters could have been  settled  much  
sooner if Lloyds had thought about  how the debit from the US dollar account might affect M 
and contacted M with the aim of agreeing a reasonable period for M to repay the debt 
without incurring charges or interest.
And because of this  and because Lloyds made the original error  I think  it should refund 
some of the interest  and charges applied to Ms account. 
But Ive also taken into account that Ms directors were aware of the debt from March  2017. 
Theyve said M was able to repay  the debt within a period of about  three  months. And they 
dont dispute that a debt was owed. I cant see any reason that M couldnt have repaid the 
debt its directors accept  it owed, even if it didnt repay the interest and charges that are in 
dispute. 
So, for these reasons  and the reasons in my provisional decision, I think  the outcome set out 
in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that Lloyds Bank PLC should refund interest and charges  related to the 
overdraft and applied  to Ms US dollar  account  between 8 March  2017 and 14 May 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1706402