K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with what  DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) did 
after he made a claim  on his legal expenses insurance policy.  
background
Mr R wanted to pursue  an unfair dismissal and a defamation claim against his former  
employer. He got in touch  with DAS seeking  funding  for this on 26 November last year.  
There was an initial discussion over whether Mr R had a policy in place at the time the 
incident occurred.  That was resolved but a dispute  remained  over whether he was self-
employed or would be classed as an employee. DAS says it agreed on 10 December to 
seek advice from panel solicitors on this and whether the claim enjoyed reasonable 
prospects of success.  
The solicitors advised on 16 January  that while Mr R was likely to be a worker the claim 
was outside of the time limits for pursuing an employment tribunal claim and had been at the 
point Mr R contacted  DAS. And although theyd considered  Mr Rs reasons for not bringing 
the claim in time they didnt think the Tribunal was likely to extend time on that basis. So they 
didnt think the claim  had reasonable prospects of success. DAS said as a result it wouldnt 
be providing cover. 
Mr R complained to DAS which accepted there  had been a short delay in the claim being 
passed to panel solicitors.  But it noted the claim  was already out of time at that point  so 
didnt think Mr Rs position  had been  adversely affected. However, it agreed  it hadnt 
explained to Mr R that his defamation claim wasnt covered by the policy at all. It offered to 
pay a total of £150 to reflect the inconvenience hed been caused.  
Our investigator thought that was fair but Mr R didnt agree. He said it had taken 13 working 
days for his claim to be referred  to panel solicitors and DAS initially  said he wasnt  covered 
at all. He said DAS delayed in telling  him the defamation issue wasnt  covered by his policy.  
And it had then taken  seven weeks  for the solicitors to assess  the claim. He thought it was 
unfair it had taken that long and explained why he disagreed with their opinion. He thought  in 
the circumstances the assessment should  have been prioritised. So I need  to reach a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this matter  is very important to Mr R and I was sorry to hear about whats 
happened. Hes told us about the impact on him (and his family) of losing his job and I know  
this must be a difficult time for him, But the issue I need to consider is whether DAS did 
anything wrong  when he got in touch about the claim  he wanted to make  and, if so, 
whether theres  more  it needs to do to put things right. I dont think  there is. Ill explain why.  
Ref: DRN18876742Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy. I can see it provides cover  
where the date  of occurrence of the insured incident is during the period of insurance. And 
it would  potentially cover  a dispute relating to your contract of employment. But when  Mr R 
first contacted DAS I dont  think it was clear the date of occurrence was within  the period of 
insurance. Or that the dispute did relate to a contract of employment. So I think  it was 
reasonable DAS initially  queried these points with him. 
And in common with other legal expenses policies Mr Rs only provides cover where a claim 
enjoys reasonable prospects of success which it defines as being at least 51%. So I think it 
was right DAS then sought legal advice from a firm of panel  solicitors on whether  that was 
the case. Its unfortunate the first firm it approached didnt  have  capacity to take on the case  
but there doesnt  appear to have  been  any delay by DAS in allocating the case to an 
alternative firm. 
I appreciate Mr R disagrees with the legal opinion those solicitors then reached.  But in 
deciding whether a claim has reasonable prospects of success we generally think its 
reasonable for an insurer to rely on a properly written and reasoned  legal opinion  from a 
qualified lawyer. I think the opinion in this case meets those criteria and so I dont think it 
was unreasonable of DAS to rely on it. And I can see DAS correctly advised Mr R that if he 
was able to provide an alternative legal opinion it would reconsider. 
Mr R is also unhappy with the length  of time it took for the panel  solicitors to assess the 
claim. I appreciate he thinks it should have been prioritised. But the actions of the solicitors  
arent something that our rules allow us to consider. As the investigator has explained thats 
something the Legal Ombudsman might be able to look into. 
However, DAS has accepted there  was some  delay in the matter being referred to those 
solicitors. And Mr R is right to say DAS should  have  told him earlier  that defamation claims 
werent covered  by his policy. Its agreed  to pay him a total of £150 to reflect the 
inconvenience he was caused by this. Taking into account that his claim was already out of 
time at the point  he told DAS about it I think thats a reasonable way of recognising the 
impact on him of what it got wrong.  So I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1887674