K820x#14Complaint
Mr W has complained about a whole of life policy he took out provided by Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited.  He has said the policy was mis-sold as he wasnt aware  the sum 
assured could decrease.
Background
Mr W took the policy out in 1993.  It was in his sole name. His wife also took out a similar  
policy and is in the same position, but this decision  only focuses on Mr Ws policy.
The policy provided  around £150,000 worth of cover. It was reviewable  and was set up on a 
maximum basis. It also provided accidental death cover until the policy holder turned 60.
Just before the policys first review Mr W increased  the life cover  amount and the level of 
premiums.
When the policy was reviewed in 2003  it passed the review and Mr W didnt have to increase 
his premiums or accept  a lower sum assured.  This was also the case  at the second review  
of the policy  which took place in 2008.  But the policy failed its reviews in 2013 and 2018 
meaning that Mr W had to decide  whether  he wanted to maintain the sum assured level and 
therefore increase  his premiums or keep the premiums the same and accept a lower  sum 
assured.
Aviva wrote to Mr W on each occasion to inform  him what  the failed review meant and asked 
him what he wanted to do going  forward. However, Aviva didnt receive any response  from 
Mr W on both occasions and so kept the premiums at the same level which  meant the sum 
assured had to decrease. The sum assured currently stands at £25,000.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it shouldnt be 
upheld. He found the policy had been  sold to Mr W by an independent financial adviser (IFA) 
so how the policy was sold and how it was explained to Mr W couldnt  be looked at in this 
complaint as Aviva wasnt responsible for this. 
He did however look into how the policy was administered  by Aviva, which  is all it is 
responsible for, and he was satisfied it had been  administered correctly. The policy  had been  
reviewed correctly and at the correct times  and the results of these reviews had been 
communicated to Mr W, despite  his lack of response. The investigator  also explained how a 
reviewable whole of life policy worked and explained that it was the IFAs responsibility who 
sold him the policy to have ensured  Mr W understood how the policy  worked and the nature 
of the policy  before he took it out.
Mr W didnt agree with the assessment and remained  of the view the policy had been mis 
sold. He also asserted that Aviva should be responsible for the entirety of the policy  and 
ensuring that the guidance clarified the sum assured wasnt  for life as he initially thought.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN18881302I know this is an important  policy for Mr W and while I appreciate  how unhappy he is with the 
situation the policy is in, it would be unconscionable for me to hold Aviva responsible for 
something it didnt do or was responsible  for.
Aviva is the policy  provider and so is only responsible for ensuring the policy is administered 
correctly and in line with its contract terms and conditions  as well as ensuring  the correct  
amount gets paid out when it needs  to be. As previously explained, an IFA sold the policy to 
Mr W (which isnt disputed) therefore,  it is that IFA who was responsible for explaining to 
Mr W how the policy worked,  the fact it would  be reviewed and what that meant and for 
assessing the policy suitability for Mr W and his specific objectives and circumstances.
Because this complaint is against Aviva and because of how long ago it took place I dont 
know what the IFA did or explained  to Mr W when he sold it. I appreciate  Mr W says he 
didnt know the sum assured could reduce but given how long ago this policy  was sold it 
wouldnt be unreasonable for Mr W to have  forgotten. But in any event,  I cant  comment  on 
any of the IFAs actions at the time of the sale.
However, in regard to what Aviva  was responsible for, I am satisfied  it hasnt done  anything 
wrong.
It was explained  in the policys terms and conditions that it was a reviewable one and that 
this could result in an increase in premiums or a reduction in the sum assured. It was Mr Ws 
responsibility as the policyholder to ensure he understood them  as well as taking on board 
what the IFA had told him when he sold it.
I am also satisfied the policy was reviewed correctly and at the correct  times.
Ultimately, it is a feature  of reviewable  whole of life policies that the sum assured could 
reduce if it is discovered at a review that not enough  is being paid into it to maintain the sum 
assured. Again, this should have  been explained  to Mr W by the IFA who sold him the policy 
before he agreed  to take it out. If it wasnt or if Mr W didnt understand this or didnt want  this 
type of policy, then this is something that was the responsibility of the IFA and not Aviva.  As 
far as Avivas responsibilities  are concerned, I am satisfied that it has met its responsibilities 
and so hasnt  done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1888130