K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R think it was unfair for Hiscox Insurance Company  Limited  (Hiscox) to decline a 
claim they made on their home insurance for items stolen from a car.
background
Mr and Mrs R and their young child were going away  for the weekend.  Mr R was packing the 
car, which was parked  on the public road outside  his home.  Having filled the boot,  Mr R left a 
backpack on the passenger seat, locked  the car and went inside the house to help his wife 
with their child.
Minutes later thieves broke into the car by smashing the window and stole the backpack  and 
its contents, which were worth over £5,000.
Mr and Mrs R reported the theft to local police, and then contacted Hiscox. Hiscox  said it 
wouldnt meet Mr and Mrs Rs claim because the bag that was stolen wasnt  hidden  from 
view. Mr and Mrs R complained, saying the clause  Hiscox had relied  upon  wasnt  clearly  
written  and in any case the items  within the backpack were  hidden from view,  and so 
Hiscox should pay for or replace these items, if not the bag itself.
Hiscox didnt change its stance so Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator thought Hiscox had acted fairly in relying on the exclusion,  so she didnt 
think it had done  much wrong.
Mr and Mrs R werent  satisfied with this, and sent an additional  set of reasons why Hiscox 
had been unfair  in summary that a number of the exceptions within the policy  overlap and 
are unclear.  Theyve pointed out that the court  system  interprets exclusions like these  strictly 
 and generally in the customers favour.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im not going  to uphold this complaint, for the same reasons  our investigator didnt.
Our investigator provided a comprehensive explanation to Mr and Mrs R about  why she 
thought Hiscox could  fairly apply an exclusion and decline Mr and Mrs Rs claim.  Im not 
going to comment  on every point Mr and Mrs R make about  this complaint  although I can 
assure Mr and Mrs R I read all the information  they sent and their arguments  about the 
policy wording. Ive also borne in mind the relevant legislation Mr and Mrs R mention.
First I should say that, as our investigator explained,  its not for this service to challenge  how 
an insurer carries  out its day to day business,  which includes the drafting of insurance  
documents. We can only look at the specific circumstances surrounding Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint.  
Ref: DRN17089822Having said that, the crux of this complaint is that Mr R left his bag in a car unattended  and 
in view of a thief  who took advantage  of his momentary oversight and stole the bag and its 
contents. I do understand how upsetting  this must  have been,  and no doubt it was made  
worse when Hiscox said it wouldnt meet Mr and Mrs Rs claim. But I can only ask Hiscox to 
meet their claim  if I can see its rejected it unfairly.  In this case that would be applying an 
exclusion that wasnt relevant to the claim.
Insurers include exclusions and exceptions in their policies  because they need to limit the 
risk they take in providing cover. Thats common across the insurance industry. The 
exclusion in question here says the policy will not cover loss or damage  from, in or on any 
unattended vehicle unless  the vehicle is locked, the windows  are closed and insured items 
are completely hidden  from view.
Mr and Mrs R say Mr R left the car locked and with the windows closed whilst he went  into 
the house. I think that means the car was unattended,  even if only for a short  while. Although  
Mr R complied with most of the conditions that should be met for an unattended  car, he 
didnt leave his backpack hidden from view  it was on the passenger seat.  
Mr and Mrs R say that the contents of the bag, which cost a lot of money, were hidden  from 
view  because they were in the bag. And they think a backpack  in itself doesnt  suggest 
theres anything of value inside.  They think the clause isnt clear  and should be interpreted  in 
their favour. But Mr R also told us the bag was packed with a fair number of things  so most 
likely the thief would  know or at least think  it had items in it. 
Ive thought about how the wording in italics  above would normally  be interpreted  by a buyer 
of insurance. Unlike  Mr and Mrs R I do think the clause is clear, and I think Hiscox fairly 
applied it to the claim. The bag was stolen and the contents went  with it. If the bag hadnt 
been on the seat then an opportunistic  thief wouldnt have had a chance to steal  either the 
bag or, by default,  the contents.  That means I dont think  Hiscox should  pay for the things in 
the bag and not the bag itself, as Mr and Mrs R suggest.
Mr and Mrs R believe the wording of another clause (about bicycles) causes confusion.  They 
think this means Hiscox  cant  rely on the exclusion it did use, and that  as theyve met the 
conditions of a clause about  transporting  items   their claim should be met. Im not 
persuaded by that argument.  I say that because only one exclusion needs  to be triggered  to 
allow an insurer to fairly decline a claim. Im satisfied Hiscox  applied the one most relevant to 
the circumstances surrounding the theft. 
Finally Mr and Mrs R say no-one at Hiscox would discuss Mr Rs extended  interpretation of 
the exclusion. I dont think theres any obligation  for it to do that, providing it applies the 
clause fairly,  which Ive already said I think it did.
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs R made  two other points.
Firstly, they say no one explained to Mr R how exclusions would be applied when he bought  
the insurance. I cant see that Mr and Mrs R have  complained about  that to Hiscox, so it 
hasnt had a chance to respond on this point. That means I cant consider  this point in this 
decision.
Ref: DRN17089823Mr and Mrs R also pointed out what they see as flaws in Hiscoxs complaints process. This 
service cant look at every complaint made  to us. We can only look at actions described  as 
regulated activities by the Financial  Conduct Authority. Complaints handling isnt a 
regulated activity, so I cant make  a finding on this part of the complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 April 2020. 
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1708982