K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Virgin Money  plc charged him for making non-sterling transactions. 
background
In February 2019,  Mr M made a number  of non-sterling  transactions  using his Virgin credit 
card. He was subsequently charged  fees for making  these transactions.  Mr M tells us hes 
unhappy that the welcome pack he received when he got the card didnt make  clear these 
charges would be applied. 
Mr M has told us he accepts that the terms and conditions state there  would be a fee for a 
transaction carried out in a different currency. But he says the welcome pack ought  to make 
this clear too. 
To resolve  this complaint,  Mr M would  like Virgin to make its welcome packs clearer. And 
hed like Virgin to refund some of the transaction fees hes incurred as a gesture of good will.
Virgin didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint because it says it didnt do anything wrong when 
applying the non-sterling transaction fees as they were applied  in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought Virgin  had acted in line with its 
terms and conditions when it applied the fees. Mr M disagreed. He said his main  point is that 
while he understands the non-sterling transaction fees were  in the terms and conditions, the 
welcome pack should have also included this information  and explained that these fees 
would also apply to non-sterling transactions carried out in the UK.
Because Mr M didnt  agree with our investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im not going to 
uphold this complaint.
Mr M says he accepts  the terms and conditions  of the account  state  he would be charged 
when doing a transaction in non-sterling currency. And he said that since  reading  the terms 
and conditions of the account  he now understands how these fees are applied.  So I wont 
look into this point  further.
Its worth  noting that this service looks at individual complaints  about  financial products. We 
dont have the power to ask a business  to change its processes. So in this case,  I cant  ask 
Virgin to change the information  its decided  to include in its welcome pack. But I can look to 
see if the welcome pack was misleading for Mr M  in the circumstances of his complaint.
Ive seen a copy  of the welcome pack Virgin said it sent to Mr M along with his credit card. 
There is a section called Using  your card abroad which says there would be a fee for all 
non-sterling transactions.  Mr M has said he didnt  use the card abroad,  and the welcome 
pack doesnt mention  there would be a fee for using the card for non-sterling  transactions  in 
the UK. 
Ref: DRN17374432Ive thought about this point carefully, and I agree that the welcome  pack  information doesnt 
specifically state  there  would be a fee for a non-sterling transactions  carried out in the UK. 
So I can understand how Mr M might have  not realised that hed be charged a fee for using 
his card in the UK for non-sterling transactions if he relied just on the information set out in 
the pack. 
But the welcome pack is silent on other information  relating to the account, like charges. The 
welcome pack is designed to give an overview of the account and this is why there are also 
terms and conditions  which  are much more  detailed  and specific. So it wouldnt be 
reasonable to rely solely on the welcome pack as it didnt specifically refer to the situation 
Mr M used  his card. Because  of this, I think it would be reasonable of Mr M to have checked  
his credit agreement,  the terms and conditions of the card and/or contact Virgin  direct  to find 
out what the cost would be of him using  his card in the UK for non-sterling  transactions.
Mr M has already said hes seen the terms and conditions of the account - and the credit 
agreement would have  also been sent with the card, so he had all the information he needed 
to make an informed choice about  how he used  the card.  And there has to be some  
responsibility on Mr M for making sure he read the information before he decided  to carry out 
this type of transaction.
So while I appreciate the pack doesnt say what the fee would  be, this information could be 
found in the credit agreement and the terms and conditions of the account. So I cant  fairly  
say that Virgin has acted unfairly  by not specifically stating  this information in the welcome 
pack.
With the above in mind,  I dont think Virgin has acted unfairly in applying  non-sterling 
transaction fees to Mr Ms account. So Virgin dont  need to do anything  more.
I understand Mr M would  like Virgin to refund part of the fees as a gesture of goodwill, but 
where I find a business hasnt done anything wrong, it wouldnt be fair to tell it to refund or 
award any compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1737443