K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the short term loans she took out with Quidie Limited, trading as
Fernovo, (QL), which she said were unaffordable.  She also complains about the way QL
treated her financial difficulties.
background
Mrs S was given four payday loans by QL between December 2017 and January 2018. At
the time Mrs S brought her complaint to us the first three loans  had been  fully repaid. But a
balance remained outstanding on her final loan. A summary of Mrs Ss borrowing from QL is
as follows:
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 2/12/2017 19/12/2017 £ 300
2 23/12/2017 4/01/2018 £ 300
3 15/01/2018 18/01/2018 £ 100
4 19/01/2018 - £ 250
Mrs S said QL lent her unaffordable loans when  she had outstanding other debt. She said
that she had a low credit rating and numerous payday loans and debts would have been
seen in her credit report. She said that her entire wages  were going on payday loans leaving
her with nothing for rent, bills and food. Mrs S also said that she had asked QL for smaller
repayments of the balance  due on Loan  4 and for it to freeze charging interest and charges
when she was experiencing financial difficulties.  She said that she had sent them  numerous
emails asking it for a repayment plan but it had ignored her and said that she should pay the
full instalment. It had also not returned a call.
QL said it had obtained Mrs Ss income and expenditure before the loans. It had also used
data from several credit  reference agencies to consider each loan application. QL said that
this confirmed that Mrs S was in a position to afford repayment  of the loans.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  She said that the
checks made by QL before all the loans didnt  go far enough as it appeared only to have
obtained details  of Mrs Ss income.  But she was unable to say if the loans were affordable
as she hadnt  received  Mrs Ss bank statements. She didnt deal with Mrs Ss complaint
about her financial  difficulties.
Mrs S responded to say that she didnt agree and that the complaint should be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. She said that she would pass more  information to the adjudicator  once this 
had been gathered but this wasnt received.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs S 
and to QL on 4 February 2019. I summarise my findings:
Ref: DRN14492572irresponsible lending
I noted that QL was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make  checks to make sure
Mrs S could afford to repay the loans before it lent to her. Those  checks  needed to be
proportionate to things such as the amount Mrs S was borrowing, the length of the
agreements and her lending history. But there  was no set list of checks QL had to do.
I explained that the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) was the regulator at the time Mrs S 
borrowed from QL. Its regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make repayments  without undue
difficulty, and that this means borrowers should  be able to make  their repayments on time
and out of their income and savings without  having to borrow  to meet these repayments.
QL had told us about the checks it did before lending  to Mrs S. Although  it told us it had
asked for income  and expenditure  details from Mrs S before the loans, it had only provided
us with information about her income  which its records  showed  as £1,315. It had also 
provided us with information  about  its credit checks which were made before each of the 
loans.
Loans 1 and 2
Loans 1 and 2 were  both for the amount of £300.  It appeared the repayment  amount was
around £325.16 for Loan 1 and £317.76  for Loan 2. Mrs S declared her income  as £1,315.
No information  about Mrs Ss outgoings  had been  provided by QL so it might be the case 
that it wasnt gathered  here. 
Id seen a copy  of QLs credit checks which showed  that Mrs S had opened nine new 
accounts in the previous three months and that she had six active accounts.  Her total 
amount owing before Loan  1 was £5,524, and this had increased to £7,291 before Loan 2. I 
didnt think the credit check results alone  should have caused QL to think  it needed to dig 
deeper into Mrs Ss circumstances at this stage in the lending  relationship.  But as the loan 
repayment amounts  were  a significant  proportion  of Mrs Ss income, I thought  QL shouldve 
gathered some further financial  information here, such as Mrs Ss normal  living  expenses  
and regular financial commitments.  I couldnt  see that it had done this. So I didnt think  QL 
had gathered enough information here about  Mrs S to reasonably  assess  if she could afford 
to repay  Loans  1 and 2.
Loan 3
Mrs S repaid  Loan 2 within twelve days of borrowing it. Shed  then borrowed £100  eleven 
days later.  I thought  that behaviour might have  caused some  concerns to QL. Id also noted  
that QLs credit check showed that Mrs Ss total balances had increased to £12,004 with 
eight active accounts  around three weeks after Loan 2. In view of the regularity of the loans 
and Mrs Ss increasing credit commitments  and other active accounts, and even though  the 
repayment amount  would have been  a smaller proportion of Mrs Ss income,  I thought it 
would have been proportionate here for QL to have  gathered some  further  financial 
information here, such as Mrs Ss normal living expenses, regular financial commitments  
Ref: DRN14492573and short term loans.  I couldnt see that it had done this. So I didnt think QL had gathered  
enough information here about Mrs S to reasonably  assess if she could afford  to repay  
Loan 3.
Loan 4
Loan 4 was for £250. No details of the repayment amount had been provided  to this
service. The loan was taken out the day after Loan 3 was repaid. Id also noted that QLs 
credit check  showed that Mrs Ss total balances were still £12,004 with eight active  
accounts. So I thought that QL should have  still been concerned about Mrs Ss credit 
commitments and frequent  loan requests despite her relatively high income. I thought  they 
might have suggested to QL that Mrs S was using short term loans as a supplement  to her 
normal income, rather than using them to meet a temporary one-off problem. So, I thought  
QL shouldve gathered some  further  financial information here,  such  as Mrs Ss normal living  
expenses, her regular  financial commitments and any short  term loans. I couldnt see that it 
had done this. So I didnt think QL had gathered  enough information here about Mrs S to 
reasonably assess  if she could afford to repay  the loan.
But although  I didnt  think the checks QL had made  on all the loans were  sufficient,  that in 
itself didnt mean that Mrs Ss complaint should succeed. I also needed  to be persuaded that 
the proportionate checks Id described above  would  have shown QL that Mrs S couldnt
sustainably afford these loans. I said that I would normally have  taken into account the 
information a consumer had provided  about her financial circumstances and I also would  
have looked at her bank  statements for the account into which the loan was paid to see what  
better checks would  have shown.
Id asked the adjudicator to ask Mrs S if she could send us her bank statements for
November and December  2017 and January 2018. But unfortunately these havent been
received. That meant I didnt have a full picture  of Mrs Ss financial circumstances at the time
of the loans. So I didnt know what QL wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate
checks. And so I couldnt say that if QL had completed sufficient checks, it wouldve found  
that Mrs S couldnt afford to repay the loans  sustainably
.
So whilst I didnt think that the checks QL carried out were proportionate for the loans, Id
not seen enough to make me think that had QL carried out sufficient checks, these wouldve
prevented it from lending to Mrs S. So based on what Id seen, I couldnt  say QL was wrong  
to lend to Mrs S.
treatment of financial difficulties
I noted that Mrs S had also complained  about the way in which  QL had treated her request 
for smaller  repayments following her financial difficulties. I could see that she was concerned
about QLs delays, its repeated failures to deal with her request for a repayment  plan, its 
failure to return her calls and its requests for her to pay a whole due instalment. Mrs S said
that QL had treated her unfairly at a stressful time in her life.
So that I could  find out more about this, Id asked  the adjudicator to ask Mrs S to send us
copies of all the information she had about this. Id asked for Mrs S to send us copies of all
emails she had sent to QL and its responses, the dates of all phone calls she had made  to it
about this and any information  about  the calls,  and details about  her debt management plan
and the repayments she had made since January 2018.
Ref: DRN14492574So that I could  investigate Mrs Ss concerns further, Id also asked the adjudicator  to ask QL 
if it could send us its contact notes and copies  of all emails  sent to and received from Mrs S.
Neither QL nor Mrs S had sent us any information in response  to my requests. Id noted that 
the parties had around six weeks to respond  which I thought was reasonable. In the absence  
of further information,  I said it was difficult  for me to safely conclude that QL had acted 
inappropriately.
So I said that I didnt  intend to uphold  this aspect of Mrs Ss complaint, although the parties  
could provide such information to us in their responses to this provisional decision.
Subject to any further representations by Mrs S or QL my provisional  decision was that 
I didnt intend  to uphold both aspects  of this complaint.
Mrs S responded on 23 February 2019 to say that she wanted to send over her bank 
statements for the period mentioned in her complaint  but her current account had been 
deleted from online access. Mrs S said she was in contact with the bank to see how she 
could get the statements.  
QL hasnt provided any further  information in response to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mrs S had told us that she was in contact with her bank about obtaining her 
statements. I also note this service  responded to Mrs S on 25 February 2019 to say she 
should let this service  know by 4 March 2019 if shed received her statements. But if she 
required an extension to my provisional  decision she should also let us know.  I note that 
weve heard  nothing further from Mrs S. 
I can see that this service sent an email to Mrs S almost  a year ago on 28 March  2018 to ask 
for her bank statements. I also note that Id asked the adjudicator  to contact  Mrs S on 
20 December 2018 to ask for her bank statements. Overall, I think that Mrs S has been 
given ample time to let us have her bank statements.
So, given that Mrs S and QL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  8 April 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14492575
Ref: DRN1449257