K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold an 
Advantage Gold packaged  bank  account  to him in 1998.
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr W s complaint  and didnt  think that NatWest had mis-sold the 
packaged account. Mr W disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman  to look at this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
decide what to do about this complaint.
Having looked  at all the information  provided, I dont think  that NatWest mis-sold  the 
packaged account to Mr W. Id like to explain the reasons  for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr W was given  a clear choice in taking  the 
Advantage Gold account. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make my 
decision based on what I think is more  likely  than not to have happened  having weighed up 
what Mr W and NatWest have been able to provide me with.
Mr W upgraded from a free account  so I think  that he wouldve  been aware that NatWest  did 
free accounts and that they were an option  for him. Mr W has said that he thought that he 
had to take out the account  in order to get a personal loan and I can see that a loan was 
taken out at the time. But he had held personal loans in the past and I cant see any declined  
applications so I dont see why Mr W wouldve suddenly  thought  that his obtaining a loan 
was dependent on changing his account. In addition I note that Mr W has said that he 
assumed that the loan was dependent on him upgrading  his account but he has not 
explained what was said to make him think this. This in turn makes it difficult  for me to 
conclude that it was the actions of NatWest that made him think that a loan was dependent  
on upgrading his account.
Given the timescales involved, I think it is more likely that Mr W recalls  being told that to get 
the preferential  rate on the loan he would have  to take out the Advantage Gold  account as 
this was one of the main benefits  of the account  at the time. Overall I am satisfied that Mr W 
was given a fair choice  to take out the Advantage Gold  account and he chose to take it due 
to the benefits  it came  with.
From what  Ive seen and what Mr W has said, I dont think NatWest recommended the 
account. So it didnt  have to check if it was right for him. It was up to Mr W to decide  this 
taking into account  what the package included.  But NatWest did have to give him clear 
enough information to do this. 
I think its likely NatWests representative did talk about the benefits and provided an 
overview of what the account included. After all they were  looking to make it appear  as 
attractive as possible so Mr W would agree to pay the monthly fee when he most likely knew 
he didnt have to. 
Ref: DRN11333732When Mr W upgraded, the account  included a preferential interest rate on borrowing. Mr W 
applied for loans during the period he had the account. Indeed  as explained above one of 
them was taken at the time of the upgrade.  Having  the Advantage Gold  account when he 
applied for these loans meant that Mr Ws monthly loan repayments were lower  than they 
otherwise wouldve been if hed remained on his free account. Mr W also made overdraft 
interest savings while  he had the account  too. So while  Mr W might well have still taken 
loans and used  his overdraft even if hed stayed on a fee free account, he paid less for both 
types of borrowing because of the preferential rates of the Advantage Gold  account.
Overall I think  Mr W was able to use the benefit he most likely agreed to  the preferential 
borrowing rates. So while Im open to the possibility Mr W may not have been told absolutely 
everything he needed to know, I think he was told enough to be able to decide if the account 
was right for him. And cant  see anything  specific that Mr W was not told that I think wouldve 
changed his decision  to take out the account.
I note Mr Ws comments  that the benefits  of the account were not of use to him but the 
majority of these benefits were added after the sale itself and ultimately it was his choice to 
keep the account. The main benefit at the time of the sale was the preferential borrowing  
rates and this is why I think  he agreed  to the account.
Mr W may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, think he shouldnt  have  upgraded. And given 
what he mightve read or heard about packaged accounts in general,  I can understand why 
he might  believe that his account  was also mis-sold.  But I think  Mr W chose  to upgrade  after 
having been provided with an explanation  on what the account included. So I want  to 
reassure Mr W that having looked  at all the information provided and thought about 
everything hes said, I dont think that NatWest  mis-sold the packaged  account  to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019..
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1133373