K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) didnt 
do enough checks before  approving her loan.
background
Miss D applied for a £500 loan from Satsuma Loans on 20 December 2015. She was 
scheduled to repay  £19.12 per week for 52 weeks. The loan was due to be repaid on 20 
December 2016.
Miss D says if Satsuma Loans  had done  better checks it would have  found  she had a poor 
credit record, which  included  an Individual  Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) which ended in 
August 2012.  She adds that she also had a number of credit  cards and loans from other  
lenders, including other short-term loans. Miss D says she struggled to repay  the loan due to 
these other  commitments,  but repaid it in February 2017.
Satsuma Loans  says it asked Miss D for information  about her income and expenditure 
when she applied for the loan. It says it used credit  reference agency  information to verify  
this information  and to assess her borrowing  history. Satsuma Loans adds that the 
information indicated  Miss D may have understated her expenditure so it increased this 
figure by just over £600 before making its assessment. Satsuma Loans says its calculations  
still showed the loan was affordable and that her credit history was in line with its lending  
policy at the time.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Satsuma Loans  did enough checks considering the circumstances  of the application. He 
said he found nothing  in the available  information  that should  haver  indicated  to Satsuma 
Loans that the loan was unaffordable or that it needed to do further checks.
Miss D responded  to say, in summary, that the lending was irresponsible  as she owed 
money on multiple credit cards and other loans at the time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Satsuma Loans  was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure 
Miss D could afford to repay the loans before it lent to her. Those  checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Miss D was borrowing, and her lending history. 
But there was no set list of checks Satsuma  Loans  had to do.
When Miss D applied  for the loan she told Satsuma Loans that her monthly  income was 
£2,500 and that she had regular expenditure of £1,480. Satsuma  Loans  verified  the income 
figure, but considered it likely Miss D had understated her expenditure based on what  it 
could see in her credit  file. It therefore based  its affordability calculation on an expenditure 
figure of just over £2,080. This gave a disposable  income of over £400 with which  Miss D 
needed to make repayments  of under £85 per month. So Im satisfied Satsuma Loans would 
have found the loan to be affordable.
Ref: DRN13949722I acknowledge Miss D says she was in an IVA until August 2012, which would have  shown 
on her credit  file, but given this was over three  years earlier,  I cant  conclude  Satsuma Loans 
should have changed its lending decision based  on this. Similarly, Miss Ds credit  file did not 
show any defaults prior to her Satsuma Loan  application. So, although  I accept Miss D says 
she had multiple  credit  cards and loans at the time,  I cant agree that Satsuma Loans was 
irresponsible to have  approved the loan.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1394972