K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains about issues shes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited.  
background
In August  2017  Miss D was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement 
with BMWFS. At the point of supply the car was 4 years old and had covered 19,329  miles.
After approximately  6 months Miss D experienced issues with the engine  management  light 
and the oil warning  light illuminating. In March  2018  she called a third party  roadside 
assistance organisation and the car was recovered  to the supplying dealer. 
In July 2018 Miss D reported an issue with the DPF waring light and the car was returned to 
the supplying  dealer  but no faults were found. Later in July 2018  the dealer carried out a 
service and MOT.
In August  2018  the engine blew up. The car was recovered to the supplying dealer who 
advised Miss D that the car needed  repairs totalling  £900. Miss D says she cant afford  the 
repairs. The car has remained with the supplying dealer.
Miss D initially  complained to BMWFS in April 2018  due to the lack of support  she felt she 
was getting from the supplying  dealer in relation  to the issues  with the engine management 
light and the oil warning  light.  Shes  subsequently  asked to reject the car because she 
doesnt think its of satisfactory quality.
BMWFS refused to accept a rejection. In its final response, it said that because the faults 
werent reported until 11 months  after the point of supply it was up to Miss D to prove  that 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said that Miss D had made BMWFS aware of the 
issues which had arisen in the first 6 months  in April 2018. The investigator felt that BMWFS 
shouldve done  more to look into whether the car was of satisfactory quality. The investigator  
thought that the car had an inherent  fault  at the point  of supply and recommended that 
Miss D should be allowed  to reject the car.
BMWFS didnt agree with the investigators view. It said Miss D hadnt reported the issues to 
them in the first 6 months and it was up to her to show that there  was an inherent fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied  
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable  taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid. I would  expect a second  hand car, such as that supplied to Miss D, to have a 
degree of wear and tear. So in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied 
that there  was an inherent fault with the car as opposed to issues  caused by general wear  
and tear.
Ref: DRN16445902Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  its presumed  that a fault which arises in the first 6 
months was present or developing  at the point of supply  unless  the business can show  
otherwise. After 6 months the burden  of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to 
show that the fault was present at the point  of supply.
Miss D and BMWFS  disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision, I need  to look at the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
An expert engineers  report  can help with deciding whether or not a car is of satisfactory 
quality. Because  Miss D reported the issues to the supplying dealer within the first 6 months,  
and because she made BMWFS aware of the issues  which had arisen during the first 
6 months just outside of the first 6 months,  I think BMWFS should have arranged an 
independent inspection of the car in April 2018. This service  has asked BMWFS to arrange 
an independent inspection but it didnt  respond. 
In the absence of an independent inspection, Ive reached my decision based on the 
available information.  This information is very limited  because the dealership  has been 
unable to provide  job sheets, despite  acknowledging that the car was returned to them on 
more than one occasion.
Based on the limited  information provided by the dealer,  I can see that the car was with the 
dealer in July 2018 to investigate an issue with the DPF warning light.  It was also with the 
dealer later on in July 2018 for a service and MOT. The dealer has said it has no record of a 
recovery or of looking at the car in March  2018.  However, Ive seen an email from the dealer 
dated 30 March  2018 in which it confirmed  to Miss D that the car was being  looked at. Based 
on this email, Im satisfied that the car was with the dealer in March 2018.
The lack of job sheets  and the apparent discrepancies  in the dealers records  regarding 
when it had the car makes it difficult to determine whether the car and a fault and/or the 
nature of any repair work carried out. So Ive based my decision on what  I think  is most  
likely.
Ive had regard  to the report provided by the roadside assistance  organisation who 
recovered the car in March 2018. This says theres  a potential issue with the oil being above  
the required level for no apparent reasons and says the car shouldnt be driven  until it has 
been looked at. This report is consistent with Miss Ds testimony that the oil warning light 
was illuminating.  
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Miss D experienced  issues with the car in the first 
6 months which  she reported  to the dealership. Under the relevant legislation, its presumed 
that these issues  were present at the point of supply unless the business  can show  
otherwise. I havent  seen  any evidence from the dealership  to suggest that the fault wasnt  
present at the point of supply. Im satisfied that Miss D made  BMWFS aware that there were 
issues with the car in the first 6 months when  she contacted them  in April 2018. I think 
BMWFS shouldve done more at this stage to investigate whether the car was of satisfactory  
quality.
On balance, Im persuaded that the car had an inherent fault when  it was recovered to the 
dealer in March  2018. I think its more likely than not that the subsequent issues with the car 
are related  to the inherent fault.
Ref: DRN16445903In circumstances  like this I would  usually ask BMWFS to put things right by repairing the car. 
However, in view of the length of time which has passed since  the car was recovered  to the 
dealer in August 2018, I dont think this would be a fair resolution. Taking  everything  into 
account, I think Miss D should be allowed to reject  the car. 
Im therefore  upholding the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  must:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Miss D.
Refund Miss D all of the payments shes made since August 2018
Pay compensation of £200 for the inconvenience  caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1644590