K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say National  Westminster  Bank  plc mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 2007  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The mortgage was taken out in joint names,  but the policy  provided  cover only for Mr M for 
accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject  to its exclusions and limitations. It offered 
to repay  £900  a month towards Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage balance  in the event of a 
successful claim. At the time, it cost £46.08 a month. 
At the time,  on the mortgage application  form Mr M states he was employed  as a Junior 
Manager and he had been in this role just over a year at the date of the application.  Mr M 
did indicate when  bringing his complaint to this service he was in a different role which he 
had been in for a number of years. However  it was many years  ago and memories  do fade, 
so I have used  the information recorded  at the time the application form was completed.
Mr M did tell us he had good  employment  benefits but that seems  to relate to the job which 
he was in previously  for many years. We did request  additional clarification  on his 
employment and benefits but that has not been  provided. So it is unclear exactly  what  sick 
pay or redundancy provision may have been in place. But I have assumed he would have 
had some sick pay for possibly 3 months full pay. 
Mrs M was not working at the time the policy was taken out and was not eligible for the 
policy. She was not included  on the PPI application form and was not covered by the policy. 
Therefore, my main  references and focus in this decision will be to Mr M and if the policy  met 
his needs.
Mr and Mrs M have  said they didnt have any other means of repaying their mortgage should 
Mr M be unable  to work. Mr M has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
NatWest has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage started in July 2007  and ran 
until June 2014.  
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
NatWest failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN16272502The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NatWest should  have 
told Mr M about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NatWest should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr M and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and 
The information Mr M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
Ref: DRN16272503This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NatWest, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
Ref: DRN162725042005, so NatWest was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If NatWest  gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his] needs  
and circumstances.  
Whether NatWest gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing his attention  and highlighting   in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs M, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs M 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and NatWest, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr M know he had a choice?
NatWest had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The mortgage application form had a section about the PPI. This section gave a choice to 
indicate that the PPI was not required  or to compete indicating the PPI was wanted and 
information about what was required then had to be completed.  The section about the cover 
required has been filled in with who the PPI was to cover and stating the amount of monthly  
benefit amount  required. This indicated  that Mr M was to be covered and the benefit  was to 
be £900 per month.  
Clearly choices were made  about  the PPI when the mortgage form was being completed.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr M knew the policy was optional  and 
he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN16272505did NatWest provide  advice?
Mr M has said he cannot remember if advice  was given at the time of the sale and NatWest 
says it didnt provide  advice during  this sale. Looking  at the documents Mr M signed I can 
see he signed an agreement document in May 2007  that indicted he had been given advice 
about the mortgage but for the PPI he was given information about  the policy and he ticked  
to confirm he wanted to apply  for it. 
So I think at the time NatWest provided information, which Mr M has acknowledged, and he 
made his choices based on that information. Therefore, Im not persuaded that NatWest 
provided advice.  
This means  NatWest didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr M. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr M to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr M was given a broad description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect Mr and Mrs Ms] payments if Mr 
M was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr M would have taken out 
the policy without  any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might  
be.
The documentary evidence available from the time of sale indicates that Mr M selected the 
amount of monthly  benefit he wanted but it doesnt tell us whether NatWest gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr M agreed 
to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think NatWest  gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ms. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN16272506The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that NatWest ought  to have done either. 
what effect did NatWests  shortcomings have on Mr M? To what extent did Mr M suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found NatWest didnt do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Mr M. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr M suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr M would  have still 
taken out the policy,  had NatWest done  things properly. 
Mr M says he would not have taken  it out and believes  that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr M had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of him being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr M thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr M was given about the benefit, which  he selected, was clearly  set out. 
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the monthly  cost,  limitations  
and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have  been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs M knew  he would have to pay 
something for the policy, I have seen nothing to show NatWest told him the exact  premium  
at the point he applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr M would have been 
told the cost before the policy started  and he has paid for the policy for a number of years,  
so if the costs were  significantly at odd with his expectations at the point of sale, its possible  
he might  have raised that with NatWest at the time, or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr M would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN16272507The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
carry out the duties  of his normal occupation  or any similar occupation which  he may 
become qualified to perform,  based  on his education, training or ability.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude that the policy  
was not as good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr M didnt have  any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr M would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any similar  occupation which in the insurers  view he might reasonably become qualified 
for, it might have played into his thinking about what he would have done. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mr M was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
NatWest may not have  told Mr and Mrs M that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12-
month. This may have differed from what he expected and might have hoped for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mr M would have  received full sick pay for and any 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr M would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help Mr and 
Mrs M manage  the consequences  should Mr M be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
Mr and Mrs Ms outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time, ensure their home  was not placed  
at risk and might potentially help preserve Mr Ms sick pay for other  use.
Ref: DRN16272508Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what 
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help Mr and Mrs M 
manage the consequences  if Mr M was made  redundant, or unable to work through the 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr M would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M wouldnt have bought  the PPI he bought unless , in the particular  
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken  out the 
PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude NatWest should pay Mr M compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr M thinks  NatWest misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
NatWests statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NatWest  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information NatWest gave Mr M, in the way 
Ref: DRN16272509it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in May 2007  when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find NatWest negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr M and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that NatWest had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 March  2021.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1627250