K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2007. 
Mr and Mrs M applied for the mortgage  and PPI at a meeting with Barclays.  The policy 
covered Mr and Mrs M for accident,  sickness and unemployment. It cost £5.95 per month.  
The monthly benefit of £100 was split between Mr and Mrs M, so that if Mr M had made  a 
successful claim  it would have paid out £75 per month, and if Mrs M had made a successful 
claim, it would have paid £25 per month.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen the mortgage  offer which Barclays provided to Mr and Mrs M. It includes a 
section on insurance. It says clearly that they arent required  to take out any insurance 
through Barclays. The PPI is listed under the words Optional Insurance. I acknowledge 
that Mr and Mrs M say they wouldnt have  taken out the PPI unless it had been implied 
that they had no choice.  But I think it was clear from the way the PPI was referred to in 
the mortgage offer that it was optional. 
Ive also seen the Statement of Demands and Needs that Barclays  advisor completed.  
It says includes the question Would your current employment provide sufficient income 
to maintain your lifestyle and repay  your borrowing  if you were unable  to work due to 
accident or illness. No is written  for both Mr and Mrs M. It says How much  of the 
shortfall would  you need  to protect  in total?  and £100 has been inserted.  
Im satisfied that a discussion took place  between Mr and Mrs M and Barclays  about  
their mortgage needs, including whether they wanted PPI. Im satisfied  that it was clear  
from the paperwork that the PPI was optional. Ive seen nothing to make  me think  that it 
was implied that Mr and Mrs M had to take the cover. Overall, I think Mr and Mrs M 
decided to take it, knowing  that they had a choice  although  I can understand how they 
may no longer remember this, so many years  later.
Ref: DRN12000512Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. This means it had a responsibility to 
check that it was suitable for them. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable,  based  on 
what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time. Mr and Mrs M have  told us that theyd 
both have been entitled to sick pay from their employers at the time.  But if theyd made a 
successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment, the policy  would have paid out 
for up to 24 months. Thats significantly longer than Mr and Mrs M have told us theyd  
have been entitled  to sick pay for. And it would have paid out in addition to any payments 
from their employers. So they could have used  those to meet other day-to-day expenses. 
And they wouldnt  have had to dip into any savings they had to make their mortgage 
payments.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M have told us they could have relied on parents for 
financial support  if necessary. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure that 
their parents would  have been  in a position  to help if the need  had arisen.  So taking 
everything into account, I think the policy  could have  been useful for Mr and Mrs M.
The cost of the policy was shown clearly  on the mortgage offer.  So I think Mr and Mrs M 
would have understood how much  theyd need to pay for it. And as they were paying for 
the policy monthly, they could  have cancelled it at any time if they decided they no longer 
wanted it. I can see that they did, in fact, do so when  the policy had been running for less 
than two months.
Its possible Barclays didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But based  
on what Ive seen  of their financial circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr and Mrs M 
would have been affected by any of these.
Taking everything into account,  I cant fairly  find that the policy was mis-sold.
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Ms comments, including  what theyve said about the 
fact that £100  was only a small proportion of their mortgage payment. Theyve commented 
that it wouldnt have  made  sense to protect  this amount. 
I dont know why Mr and Mrs M decided to protect less than their full mortgage payment. But 
Im satisfied that they realised that they didnt have to take the PPI, that they knew  how 
much their monthly  mortgage payments were, and that were given clear information about  
how much  the policy would cost and what the monthly benefit was. So while I recognise that 
Mr and Mrs M feel strongly, this point doesnt  change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 October  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1200051