K820x#14complaint
Ms S says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Ms S bought the policy  in 2000 some time after she took out a store  card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint because:
 I think FICL made Ms S aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. 
I say this because,  although a call recording isnt available,  I think  that its more likely 
than not that FICL followed what we know more widely about its normal  sales process 
and made  Ms S aware that the PPI was optional  before  she agreed to take it out.
Ive also seen a copy of Ms Ss store card application form. On this form there was an 
option to select  PPI, but the section has been  crossed out. As Ms S took out PPI after 
shed successfully applied  for a store card without PPI, I think  she would reasonably  
have been aware  that the PPI was optional, separate to and not a condition  of the 
store card.    
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms S so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But FICL did still have to give Ms S good  enough information so that she could decide 
if she wanted to take the PPI.  
 Its possible the information FICL gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ms S doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances, 
including her employment circumstances, it looks like the policy couldve been useful to 
her. 
So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Ms Ss comments, including what shes  said about her existing 
means for making her repayments. Ms S has told us that she was entitled to six months  full 
sick pay followed by six months  half sick pay. But this PPI policy could have  paid out for 
longer than Ms S received full sick pay  so I still think that she could have found it useful if 
she needed to claim because of accident  or sickness.  
Ref: DRN17760072Ms S has also told us that she could have relied  on her partner to help her make her 
repayments. But although her partner may have wanted to help her, circumstances can 
change and he may not have been in a positon to help when needed. Having this PPI policy 
would also have meant that Ms Ss reliance on her partner to help her make her repayments 
if needed would be reduced.
This PPI policy also would have paid out in addition to Ms Ss savings, allowing her the 
option of not needing  to use her savings to make her repayments,  instead allowing Ms S the 
option of preserving  her savings for future  use or the option of using her savings to help pay 
for other living expenses  that she may have had. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019. 
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1776007