K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Landmark  Mortgages Limited:
-told her not to attend a possession hearing in 2012 and in doing so took away  her 
opportunity to stop it getting a possession  order;
-didnt process payments she made   to her mortgage correctly from  2015 to 2017 and so 
her mortgage payments  didnt  reduce; and
-hasnt passed  all reductions to Bank of England base rate on to its standard variable 
rate (SVR). 
Mrs S husband, Mr S, has helped her to bring  her complaint.
background
Mrs S took out an interest only for around  £280,000 over 20 years  with Northern Rock in 
2007. It was transferred to NRAM following the nationalisation of Northern  Rock,  and then 
transferred from NRAM to Landmark  in 2016.  I have  referred to Mrs S lender as Landmark 
throughout this decision  although I note that the loan will have belonged to predecessor 
lenders before 2016.
In 2012 Mrs S mortgage had fallen into arrears of around £3,500. Landmark took legal  
action to seek possession  of the property.  A court date was set of 28 November 2012.  On 27 
November 2012  Mrs S and her husband (acting  as her representative)  spoke with Landmark  
and agreed an arrangement to repay  the arrears. Mrs S says she was advised  by Landmark 
not to attend the court  hearing on 28 November 2012. 
On 28 November 2012 a possession order was granted by the court, suspended subject to 
Mrs S maintaining payments as agreed on 27 November 2012.
Mrs S says shes  unhappy that Landmark  went ahead with the court  hearing on 28 
November 2012  having told her not to attend.  She thinks if shed been in court on 28 
November 2012,  shed have been able to prevent a suspended possession order  being 
granted. Mrs S says shes  been  made ill due to the stress caused  by Landmarks actions, 
including attempts to evict her from the property, since that time.
Mrs S is also unhappy that Landmark hasnt passed  all reductions  in Bank of England base 
rate onto its SVR.
On 14 July 2017 Landmark issued  a final response to Mrs Ss complaint. It didnt think it had 
treated Mrs S unfairly by saying she didnt need  to attend the hearing on 28 November 2012, 
and it didnt think the outcome would have been any different if she had. Landmark didnt 
think any payments to the mortgage  had gone  missing but her payments had been used to 
repay arrears. It encouraged Mrs S to check her mortgage statements. Landmark  said its 
SVR didnt track Bank of England base rate and it hadnt acted unfairly  in not passing  on all 
interest rate reductions.
Mrs S wasnt  satisfied  with Landmarks response and brought  the matter to us. Our 
investigator didnt  think  Mrs S complaint should be upheld. 
Ref: DRN19441882Our investigator didnt  think Landmark had acted unfairly in telling Mrs S that she didnt need 
to attend the possession  hearing in November 2012.  She also didnt think Landmark had to 
pass on all reductions in Bank of England base rate to its SVR.  Our investigator explained 
she hadnt looked at the issue  about impact of payments made  to the mortgage  between 
2015 and 2017. Mrs S hadnt said anything else to us about this issue. 
I also havent looked in this decision at Mrs S complaint about why payments made to the 
mortgage between  2015 and 2017 didnt reduce her monthly repayments. Mrs S hasnt 
chosen to pursue this issue and it seems that this no longer  at the heart  of Mrs S complaint.
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators  findings.  Mrs S asked that an ombudsman look at 
her complaint again and reach  a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id like to reassure Mrs S that Ive thought carefully about her complaint and Ive 
considered all the information thats  been provided. Ive also listened to both phone  calls with 
Landmark on 27 November 2012.  I dont underestimate how strongly  Mrs S feels  about her 
complaint and how important this is to her. 
I think its fair to say that Mrs S has had problems  paying  the interest on this mortgage for a 
number of years. I appreciate Mrs S feels an ongoing sense of injustice. Shes clearly 
unhappy that she was told by Landmark  that she didnt need to attend  the hearing  in 2012 
because shed entered into a payment arrangement.  Mrs S feels Landmark deliberately 
tricked her by saying this and took away her right to defend herself in court.
A suspended possession  order  was granted by a court  in 2012- and that is something  I cant  
change. If Mrs S feels she hasnt received justice from the courts  then this is a legal matter 
that may need  to go back to court. I can look at Landmarks actions in the run up to the court  
hearing. Ive thought about whether Landmark acted  reasonably  at this time and whether 
Mrs S was deliberately misled. Ive also thought what might reasonably have happened if 
Mrs S had attended the hearing in 2012 and what might have happened since  that time if 
there hadnt been a suspended  possession  order in place.
Ive listened to a long call recording between Mr S and Landmark on 27 November 2012. 
The call lasts for nearly an hour. Im satisfied that the call handler  makes it clear that the 
hearing will still go ahead as it is too short notice for it to be cancelled the following day. But 
the call handler  says Landmark will make sure the judge is told that a payment arrangement 
has been set up. Mr S specifically asks whether its necessary for Mrs S to attend.  The call 
handler says it isnt necessary. 
I dont think it was Landmarks intention  to mislead  Mrs S or deny her the opportunity to put 
forward her case  to a judge  by saying this. I think its fair to say that it wasnt  necessary for 
Mrs S to attend. 
Mr S speaks to Landmark again  in a second  call on 27 November 2012. Mr S completes a 
review of Mrs S income and expenditure. At the end of the call Mrs S speaks to Landmark 
briefly, for around four minutes. In that time she agrees an arrangement to pay off her 
arrears. Landmarks call handler says at the end of that call that Landmark would make  sure 
Ref: DRN19441883the judge was told about the arrangement and that the possession order  should be 
suspended on that basis. That is what happens. 
A suspended possession  order  was granted in November 2012.  It was suspended subject to 
Mrs S maintaining agreed payments to the mortgage and settling all the mortgage arrears 
within the following  months. I note that the mortgage  arrears increased significantly since 
2012 and that they reached over £14,000 by 2016.  
Its also worth noting that, where there are arrears  as there  were  in this case  a court  has 
no choice but to make a possession order, unless the case  is adjourned or withdrawn.  
Landmark didnt  withdraw the possession action, so the only options open to the court were 
to make a suspended  possession order or an outright possession order  (that she give 
Landmark possession  of the property  immediately).  So even if Mrs S had attended  court, its 
likely the outcome would have  been the same. 
I know Mrs S thinks the actions of Landmark would have been different and her difficulties 
would have been less but for the 2012  suspended possession order.  But, having thought 
carefully about the wider circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded thats the case.  
I think the ongoing conduct  of the mortgage  account is what led Landmark to continue to 
seek payment of the mortgage arrears. As the mortgage arrears  increased, Landmark found  
it necessary to consider further  legal  action and I dont think  thats unreasonable.
Overall, I dont  think a different outcome would have been reached  if Mrs S had attended the 
hearing in 2012.  I think its fair to say the matter would probably  have  been  taken back  to 
court by Landmark  in any event as the mortgage  arrears escalated.
was it unfair  that Landmark didnt pass all reductions in Bank of England base rate on to its 
SVR?
Ive looked at Mrs Ss mortgage offer to see how Northern Rock set out what  interest rate 
would apply to the mortgage once the initial fixed rate expired. Ive also looked  at under what 
circumstances it said this rate of interest  could be or would be varied. 
After Mrs Ss one and a half year fixed rate of 5.29% expired, the mortgage  offer said that 
the mortgage will revert  to Northern Rocks SVR for the next seven  years. After that time the 
mortgage would have moved onto Northern Rocks loyalty discount rate (which was said to 
be at least 0.25% below  SVR so long as payments were kept up to date). If payments 
werent paid in full and on time the mortgage would revert back  to Northern Rocks SVR.  I 
dont think the mortgage offer said, or implied,  that the SVR would track the Bank of England 
base rate. 
Ive also carefully looked  at Northern Rocks  Mortgage Offer General Conditions (Edition 1 
2001) to see what the terms and conditions said about the way the lender said to would set 
its variable rates. In section 7 of the terms and conditions (Changing the interest  rate) it says 
it may reduce the Standard Variable Rate at any time. 
There isnt a requirement with the terms and conditions of the mortgage for Northern Rocks 
SVR to track  or follow the Bank of England base rate, or for Northern Rock to pass on any 
decreases in prevailing interest rates. The terms and conditions go on to list a number of 
reasons why Northern  Rock may  increase the SVR. These reasons are broad and are fairly 
open to interpretation but theres no specific mention of changes  to the Bank of England  
base rate being a reason  to either decrease  or increase the SVR.
Ref: DRN19441884Mrs Ss complaint is that Landmark chose to only pass on a 0.15% reduction in interest  rate 
to its SVR in 2016,  but not all of the 0.25% movement in Bank of England base rate at that 
time. Overall, having taken into account  the terms of the mortgage  and considered whats 
fair in all the circumstances, Im satisfied that Landmark didnt treat Mrs S unfairly in not 
passing all the reduction to its SVR. It was acting in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
mortgage. 
Ive also looked  at the rate of interest applied to Mrs S mortgage  from 2010 to 2018.  The 
interest rate applied  has been between 4.54% and 4.79% over that eight year period. Im 
satisfied that Landmarks  SVR was broadly in line with other  comparable  lenders similar 
reversionary rates over the period in question.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1944188