K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1997.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
this sale. So, to keep  things simple, in my decision Ill just refer to FICL as the PPI seller.
Mr R says FICL mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr R says the PPI was added without his knowledge. But the application form for the 
store card had a section about  PPI and there is a tick in the box to say Mr R wants  it. It 
also appeared on his statements for a number of years. So I think  its more likely FICL  
made it clear that Mr R didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this. 
Mr Rs representative says the store card application form doesnt include  any 
information about Mr Rs employment,  so it doesnt understand how FICL assessed 
whether the PPI was right for him. But FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt 
have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr R got the information 
he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1010391