K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Y say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2001 Mr and Mrs Y bought PPI to protect their existing mortgage repayments.  Neither  
party can confirm where nor how the sale took place. The policy was in Mr Ys sole name 
and gave him protection against  accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly 
amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs Y disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I note Mr and Mrs Y said that in the 
absence of more  concrete  evidence our approach seems to favour the bank. As an 
independent and impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumer  or banks. 
We weigh  up the evidence from both sides, and if the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive  
(as some of it is here),  my decision will be based on the balance of probabilities   in other 
words, on what  I consider is most likely  given  the available evidence and what we know  
about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. Theres no benefit for us to find in the favour of one 
party over the other. 
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs Y that the PPI was optional,  and they had to 
agree to take it out. When Mr and Mrs Y applied for their mortgage in 1999  they declined  
PPI. It was added  to their account in early 2001. Unfortunately the bank has no record  of 
where or how the sale took place, but this isnt surprising or unreasonable given how long 
ago the sale was. The bank says its more  likely  than not that the optional nature was 
verbally explained in good time before the sale concluded. 
Mr and Mrs Y say their employments  status shows they had no need for PPI and they 
always said no when offered. But I dont think their employment status is conclusive enough 
evidence that they didnt  agree to take it out. Often  people in stable employment with good 
employee benefits still opt to protect  mortgage  repayments. The fact they didnt select it 
when they applied for their mortgage in 1999  suggests to me they would have understood it 
was a separate, optional product. I have considered their comments  carefully, but I also 
have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might impact what they 
recall.
Overall, without stronger evidence that Halifax  didnt  make Mr and Mrs Y aware the PPI was 
optional and they didnt agree to take it out for Mr Y, I cant  fairly  uphold  their complaint on 
this point.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr Y and I think it seems to have been  right for him based
Ref: DRN11347562on what Ive seen. Mr Y has told us the sick pay entitlement currently  on his 2001 employers 
system is 12 months full pay, six months at 90% of salary and a further six months half pay 
if he was sick. We have  asked repeatedly for evidence that this was his entitlement  in 2001 
as this is a very generous, uncommon level of benefit, but weve received no response.
However, even assuming  Mr Y had this entitlement in 2001, the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to his work  benefits for up to 24 months for all accident and sickness  claims. This 
could have been useful if he was sick long-term  or had a serious accident as after 18 months 
he wouldve been  trying  to maintain his contribution to their living expenses on only half pay. 
It also gave him redundancy protection for up to 24 months. Mr Y said he had some savings 
but Ive seen no evidence that these were of such a value that it meant  he did not need PPI. 
The PPI would have  allowed him to use these  for other living  costs whilst  not working, or to 
keep them intact for his future needs.  Mr Y also said family and Mrs Y would have helped,  
but thats not suitable alternative  protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples  circumstances  
can change.
Mr and Mrs Y had borrowed  quite a large sum over a long period, secured on their home. 
Given how serious the effects of not keeping  up with their mortgage repayments could have 
been, I think the PPI would  have been useful for them if Mr Y was sick, had an accident or 
lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs Y all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made clear but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And Mr Y doesnt  appear to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations  (such as those affecting people  with 
pre-existing medical conditions or on certain  types  of employment contract). Overall, I dont 
think better information wouldve changed  their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs Y have lost out because  of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 October  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1134756