K821x#15complaint
Mr U is unhappy with a car purchased using his Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) 
credit card. 
background
Mr U bought a second-hand  car in November  2018  using his Tesco  credit  card.  He says that 
he was misled about its condition by the dealership (the Supplier) and had no choice but to 
sell it for scrap due to faults.
Because he paid using  his credit card Mr U approached Tesco  to see if it was able to 
reimburse him for his financial loss. It considered the issue as a claim under  section  75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). But Tesco did not agree to refund  him.
Mr U complained about the outcome  of his Section 75 claim but Tesco maintained  that it 
would not refund him. In summary, it said there was no evidence of a breach of contract as 
the receipt for the purchase was clear about  the condition of the car (and the discount  which  
was applied to reflect this).
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. In summary, he said the advertisement  was 
misleading (and pointed  out it was changed  after the sale) and the service  record has 
discrepancies. He was satisfied  that had Mr U known about  the true situation he wouldnt 
have bought the car. It was therefore fair and reasonable to refund  him for it (less what he 
got for selling it on).
Tesco disagreed  with this. In summary  it said:
Mr U had a chance to inspect the car and the invoice clearly states that the engine  
light was on and repairs were  needed;
the allegations about the service record are unsubstantiated;
the advert could  have  been changed  after the sale for genuine rather than malicious 
reasons; and
there is no evidence  the things wrong with the car were  inherent defects rather than 
wear and tear - the car has since passed several  MOTs and travelled several 
thousand miles since it was purchased which  contradicts the claim it was sold for 
scrap metal
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 11 March 2021.  In this I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments received so far to provisionally 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where things are unclear,  I make my decision  based on what  I think is most likely to have 
happened.
Section 75 makes Tesco liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation in respect  of
some things which Mr U pays for on his credit card. There  are certain  criteria  that need  to be 
met for a valid Section  75 claim. In this case Tesco has accepted that the criteria  for a valid 
claim is in place. With that in mind  and based on the information I have seen in this case  I 
am satisfied  the relevant criteria has been met too. 
Ref: DRN15863142what I think the Supplier likely said about  the warning light
Unfortunately it appears the Supplier is no longer trading. So it makes it more  difficult  to get 
to the bottom  of what actually took place  at the point  of sale. However, I have looked at the 
documentation we have along with what Mr U has said and some  of the circumstantial 
evidence, to try and get an idea of the most  likely situation.
Mr U spoke to our investigator to describe his motivation for going to see this car with his 
wife. I have listened to the call and what Mr U says appears to be credible. He said they 
wanted a good reliable  vehicle for family use, and also for his wife to commute  back and 
forth to work.  And from the advert this car looked to be just the type of car they were looking 
for  which is why they agreed to go and view it. 
I have taken a look at the text of the original advert  and a few things leap out at me in this 
regard:
beautiful condition  both inside and out
stunning example
1 former  owner from brand new  full service history
warrantied low mileage
The car was admittedly quite old and modestly priced. But it had relatively low mileage for 
the age and along with the somewhat glowing description makes  me think  it likely Mr U and 
his wife went to the Supplier  neither wanting or expecting a fixer upper or similar. I think  this 
is an important point  to make which I will come  on to later.
Mr U arrives to view the car and says he notices a dashboard light on. He says the Supplier 
explains this is illuminated because the car needs  a service and the light needs to be reset. 
Mr U says he liked the car so agreed  to get it serviced himself  for a discount. However, 
Tesco points  out that the invoice refers to a discount of £175  due to an engine  light and 
repairs. Which on the face of it would indicate  wider problems than a simple service.  
If I accept what  Tesco  is saying then it follows that Mr U bought  a car in the full knowledge 
that it needed repairs in relation to underlying mechanical issues.  However, based on the 
evidence available  I dont  think that is likely as it is inconsistent with Mr Us apparent  
motivation for the purchase and his subsequent actions.  
I go back to what Mr U says he wanted  from the start  to get a reliable car for use by the 
family, including his wifes commute to work. This is supported by the original advert which  
prior to the sale did not indicate  any underlying problems with the car. In fact it said quite the 
opposite. Had Mr U been told that the car had some underlying mechanical problems I dont 
think it likely  he would  have bought it. In fact, had the advert been clear about this I dont 
think he would have  gone to view it in the first place. 
I also note that Mr Us subsequent actions are consistent with what  he says the Supplier told 
him regarding the reason for the dashboard light. He says the car was not running smoothly 
and juddering and believed the service would resolve this (it looks like one was due at the 
time too  adding  further credibility to the situation). I can see he took the car to get serviced  
very soon  after the sale and the discount he negotiated  with the Supplier is almost exactly 
what the service cost him. If the Supplier had in fact told him clearly  the light was illuminated 
due to a potential underlying mechanical problem (and for a moment assuming Mr U was still 
willing to go ahead with the transaction) I expect he would not have simply taken the car for 
Ref: DRN15863143a service and would likely have negotiated a more significant discount. Mr U is adamant he 
was led to believe it was a service light that was on, and what happened appears  more 
consistent with what Mr U says took place.
Thirdly, it has been confirmed the Supplier altered the advert  minutes after the sale to 
include the words  Engine Warning Light On. While Tesco has said that there  could be other 
explanations for this, I think it is highly questionable why the Supplier would  choose  to do 
this retrospectively  when the car had already been  sold. Particularly if it was confident it had 
not potentially  misinformed Mr U about the true condition of the car.
That still leaves the wording on the invoice  to explain. Our investigators call notes show  that 
Mr U said he didnt notice the wording on the invoice  at the time of sale as he was more 
focused on the price  of the car. I also note that his wife signed the invoice when Mr U says 
he was the one who was negotiating with the Supplier. And while  it does refer to engine 
light and repairs it is a bit vague and shorthand and not entirely inconsistent with a story 
that the car needs a service to get things back on track. I dont think  in this case  the note on 
the invoice is compelling enough  to negate what I think it likely the Supplier told him about  
the reason for the dashboard  light being  illuminated.
To summarise, I think it is most likely  the Supplier told Mr U that all the car needed was a 
service to reset the light. And in fact this formed part of the description  of the car at the time 
of sale.
did the car just need a service or was there likely a more serious underlying  issue?
Mr U has sent us the job sheets from the garage  who he took to service  the car. I can see 
they carried out a routine service but confirmed there were other issues  and it appears the 
fault code/warning light had not been cleared as expected.
Mr U said the garage  told him there were serious  problems with the engine and it appeared 
to have been submerged in water  at some point.  He says the garage said the car was likely 
to be uneconomical  for him to repair.
Unfortunately the job sheets dont confirm all of what Mr U has said the garage  told him. So 
it isnt clear exactly what was wrong with the car but it doesnt appear to be a minor fix and I 
dont think Mr U wouldve felt he had to sell the car for scrap  if it was straightforward to 
remedy. I appreciate that Tesco has pointed to the fact the car is still on the road. But I dont 
think that in itself means the car didnt have underlying and potentially significant  issues at 
the time of sale. It would appear more likely he sold it to someone who could  (based  on the 
sale price)  repair it and sell it more economically. 
Tesco has also said the car travelled several thousand miles since original supply to Mr U. 
Firstly, it isnt clear  what of that mileage has been  done while  the car was in Mr Us 
possession (he maintains  it was very little). Secondly, I dont think  the car juddering 
prevented him from using  it  Mr U said he needed  to make some essential  trips so carried  
on using the car  in hindsight he says this was probably not the best thing  to do. I have  
listened to Mr U talk on this subject and he comes  across as credible.
Overall and on balance,  I am not satisfied that a simple service  was the answer to the 
underlying reason the dashboard light was illuminated and why the car was juddering. I think 
the evidence points to the likelihood of a wider  underlying fault with the car which was 
present at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN15863144has there been a breach of contract or misrepresentation?
I take Tescos point that the problems with the car could  have been  down to wear and tear 
and were not necessarily  unrepairable (in fact this is shown by the fact the car was driven 
after Mr U sold it for scrap). This was after all a second-hand, older car. However, taking into 
account the provisions  of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 I note that any assessment of 
satisfactory quality needs to take into account  how the goods are described. In this case,  
considering the description of the car in the initial advert, and what  I consider the Supplier 
most likely told Mr U about  the reason for the warning light being on I think it is arguable that 
in the particular circumstances the problems that transpired with the car meant it was not of 
satisfactory quality. 
In any event, essentially I think  this is a case of Mr U being misled around a particular point 
which caused him to buy the car. It seems likely that the Supplier made  a false statement 
about the reason for the illumination of the warning  light which  led Mr U to make a purchase  
he otherwise would not have done.  I dont think it is particularly relevant if the Supplier  made  
the statement  around the light innocently  or not  ultimately what it told Mr U, as the expert 
in the situation, was not true. I have already said that Mr Us actions are consistent with 
someone who didnt  want a fixer upper  (especially  as he disposed of the car in a relatively 
short period  of time) so I dont think  he would  likely  have still purchased the car had the true 
facts been known.
I note that Mr U thinks the service record has been tampered with and the car actually  
doesnt have a full-service history. I dont think there is persuasive evidence for me to say 
this is likely. But considering what I have said already along with the provisions of Section 75 
I think it fair and reasonable that Tesco do something to put things right.
putting things  right
A fair remedy would  be to put Mr U back in the position he would be in had it not been for the 
misleading information he was given. However, that isnt straightforward as the car was sold.
I have considered whether Mr U acted reasonably in selling the car when he did. It appears 
he badly needed  to replace it for his wife to commute  to work and the proceeds would help 
him fund this. I also note that he did not sell this immediately but tried to resolve the issue 
through direct contact  with the Supplier and Tesco. But when he wasnt  getting anywhere he 
sold it. And although he sold the car at a low price  for scrap   it appears this valuation was 
because of the condition it was originally  sold to him in rather  than his own decision to sell it 
off cheaply.
So I dont  think the sale of the car fairly prevents Mr U receiving a refund here.  But I do think 
the proceeds of the sale (£495 from the credible invoice I have seen) should be deducted  
from any refund.
The total contract price  for the car was £3,100 (£2,650 paid on the Tesco card) so this 
should be refunded. I also note that Mr U has laid out for a service  on a car that he really 
didnt get any notable benefit from. So I think he should get the cost of this back  which  I 
understand from the documentation provided  is £165.60.
Ref: DRN15863145my provisional decision
I direct  Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC to:
re-work the credit card as if the payment of £2,650 wasnt made, refunding  any 
interest or charges in relation to this amount and refunding any resulting credit  
balance to Mr U including 8% simple yearly interest  calculated from the date of said 
credit balance  to the date of settlement;
refund  the £450 deposit/part exchange  contribution including 8% simple yearly 
interest calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund  the £165.60 service cost including  8% simple yearly  interest  calculated  from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
deduct £495 from the amount of any refund  due to Mr U because  of the proceeds he 
received from the sale of the car  
I asked the parties  for their comments.
Mr U said he had nothing more to add.
Tesco said that it would be fair to make  a deduction from any money  back  to Mr U to reflect 
that he had use of the car for several months  before it was sold. It also said that a service 
was necessary for him to use it so should  not be included in any settlement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears that neither party are disputing the core findings of my provisional decision. So I 
dont see any reason for departing from them here. 
However, Tesco wants Mr U to pay something  for using  the car during  the time he had it. 
After considering this I am not persuaded that would be fair in the specific  circumstances 
here. My starting point is what happened to Mr U was essentially a misrepresentation of 
goods  and in order to fairly remedy this the aim would be to broadly put him back in the 
position as if that misrepresentation  had not occurred. Which would be paying him back the 
money contributed  for the car as if he had not entered  the contract.
In some circumstances  I might consider a deduction from this contribution on a fair and 
reasonable basis. However, Mr U didnt  have the car very long (around five months)  and 
during that whole time it appears he had significant problems with it which culminated in 
having to sell it for scrap. I have already said that from the records we have it is difficult  to 
know exactly how much  Mr U used the car before it was sold  but considering the nature of 
the issues he was having with it in relation  to engine warnings and juddering  problems I am 
willing to accept that he likely only made  limited essential journeys (as he has said in his 
credible testimony). I think in the circumstances it is difficult to agree Mr U has come  out 
benefiting from the goods in any notable way.  
Had the misrepresentation not occurred Mr U would also not have paid out for a service for 
the car. And considering the issues he had with it (again, leading  to him disposing  of it in a 
relatively short time) I dont think he has had any notable benefit  from the service  he paid for. 
So he should still get this refunded.
Ref: DRN15863146All things  considered, in order to remedy the misrepresentation in a fair way I dont think it 
would be reasonable to make a deduction from the money paid back  to Mr U. 
For the reasons  specified in these findings  and in my provisional decision (above) I uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
I direct  Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC to:
re-work the credit card as if the payment of £2,650 wasnt made, refunding  any 
interest or charges in relation to this amount and refunding any resulting credit  
balance to Mr U including 8% simple yearly interest  calculated from the date of said 
credit balance  to the date of settlement;
refund  the £450 deposit/part exchange  contribution including 8% simple yearly 
interest calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund  the £165.60 service cost including  8% simple yearly  interest  calculated  from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
deduct £495 from the amount of any refund  due to Mr U because  of the proceeds he 
received from the sale of the car.
If Tesco considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr U how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr U a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Mark Lancod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1586314