K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001 during a meeting.  This was a joint policy,  which  covered Ms and Mr P equally. Ms and 
Mr P say The Co-operative Bank  Plc - trading as Britannia - (Co-op)  mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms and Mr Ps case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Co-op shouldve  made  Ms and Mr P aware they had an option in taking out the PPI. Ms and 
Mr P say that they were given the impression the PPI was part of the mortgage and there  
wasnt an option to decline  it. Looking at the copy of the forms they completed,  I can see that 
the type of cover (accident, sickness  and unemployment) for the PPI has been entered onto 
Ms and Mr Ps mortgage application form which, from reading what is on the form, is an 
indication they wanted to take it. There was an option to decline the policy by signing a 
declaration also on the mortgage  application.  Co-op has also sent us a copy  of a separate  
application form for the PPI, which Ms and Mr P both signed to say they wanted to take it out 
 and selecting the options which suited their circumstances best.
So, based  on all the evidence I have, I think Co-op  made it clear  to Ms and Mr P that they 
had a choice about taking  the PPI. And that Ms and Mr P chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why they cant remember this.
Co-op didnt recommend the PPI to Ms and Mr P, so it didnt have to check  the policy was 
suitable for them. But it did have to make  sure Ms and Mr P got the information they needed 
to decide if the policy  was right for them. 
Its possible the information Co-op gave  Ms and Mr P about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like they were  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. Ms and 
Mr P say they wouldve had some  sick pay but cant remember  how much. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out alongside any employee benefits  they may have received. Ms and Mr P 
have also said they didnt have any other means  of making their mortgage repayments  
such as savings. So it would have been  useful for them if something went  wrong.  
It also looks like the PPI was affordable and they were taking on a large and long term 
financial commitment which was secured on her home. So the effects of not keeping up with 
the repayments couldve been  serious for them.  And I think  having the security that their 
repayments wouldve  been made  if they were unable to work wouldve been  important to 
them. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put them off taking it out. 
Which means Co-op doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms and Mr P.
But Co-op has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms and Mr P because: 
Ref: DRN13711612Co-op got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms and Mr P about that. Because  Co-op didnt tell Ms 
and Mr P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Co-op has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms and Mr P has said - including  what theyve said about     
Ms Ps unemployment claim being denied and the fact the policy wasnt cancelled  
automatically when  Ms P reached  60. I can see that Co-op has addressed the matter  
regarding the policy not being  cancelled when Ms P reached 60. 
Ive considered Ms Ps complaint regarding being given incorrect information by Co-op when  
she asked if she would  be covered by the policy if she took involuntary  redundancy.  Co-op 
has said that the information they were given  around the time of the claim was that Ms P had 
already taken redundancy before she tried to claim for the PPI.  From the information I have 
available, I cant see that Ms P contacted  Co-op  before she was made redundant. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Ms and Mr P.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Ms and Mr P any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1371161