K821x#15Complaint
Mr C is unhappy with what  happened  after he took out heating  cover with Amtrust Europe  
Limited and made a claim.
My references to Amtrust includes any agents  acting on its behalf.
Background
On 5 March 2018 Mr C upgraded his existing  boiler service contract to include boiler and 
heating breakdown cover, which was provided  by Amtrust. He made  a claim on 19 March 
2018 and is unhappy it took Amtrust  until 20 April to diagnose the problem  a faulty  valve 
that couldnt be replaced without damaging the hot water cylinder  and then until 1 May to 
decide the necessary repairs werent  covered by the policy.  Mr C appealed against Amtrusts 
decision and, in the meantime, arranged for the hot water cylinder to be replaced in order to 
get one with a larger  capacity.
Amtrust apologised for not diagnosing the main fault sooner and offered £100 compensation 
in recognition of the inconvenience  Mr C was caused. It said,  in summary, that:
Its not always possible  to diagnose  the cause of a problem on the first inspection. Its 
engineers originally thought the problem was with the two-port valves  but that turned out 
to be incorrect. The problem was actually with the valve  on the hot water cylinder.
The valve couldnt be replaced without damaging the hot water cylinder, due to its age 
and fragility. There were also multiple  signs of corrosion and leaking around the cylinder 
and associated pipework which would have been present for a considerable amount of 
time and before the policy started. 
The entire hot water cylinder unit would need  to be replaced to solve the problem and 
this sort of upgrade is not covered  by Mr Cs policy. 
Our investigator accepted what Amtrust had said about its liability to fix the fault but thought 
it shouldve offered to cover the cost of replacing the valve (which Amtrust  estimated as £71) 
so Mr C could decide whether  to do so at his own risk. He accepted its not always possible 
to diagnose and resolve faults immediately, but felt Amtrust shouldve done so sooner so he 
recommended the compensation  be increased to £150. 
Amtrust accepted the investigators recommendations but Mr C did not. He said it wouldve 
cost more than £71 to replace the valve. And he felt a higher amount of compensation was 
due given the trouble and upset suffered by him and his family while being without heating  
and hot water. So the complaint was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision setting out what I thought Amtrust needed to do to put things 
right. I said, in summary,  that:
Amtrust had pointed to the policy terms and conditions when it refused to cover the costs 
of fixing the broken  valve. So when  deciding whether Amtrust had treated Mr C fairly I 
first looked at the policy terms  and conditions to see what cover  the policy afforded.  The 
policy booklet explained that an initial inspection would be carried  out in the first year of 
the policy to determine if the Boiler and Controls and/or Central Heating System were  
suitable for cover or whether any upgrade works  were necessary. Also that pre-existing 
Ref: DRN16954472faults and deficiencies would be excluded from cover.  The welcome letter  sent to Mr C 
by the policy  administrators  on the day he took out the policy encouraged him to read the 
policy booklet and also explained that it would be in touch soon to arrange the initial  
inspection.
I didnt think Amtrust relied  unfairly on the policy  terms and conditions and saw no 
reason why it should contribute to the cost of the new hot water cylinder. I said that 
because:
It seemed clear an initial inspection was needed before Amtrust could confirm  whether 
all of Mr Cs central  heating  system was covered by the contract. But that inspection  
hadnt taken place when Mr C got in touch to report a problem with his boiler. I wasnt  
surprised about  that given  he called  relatively soon after his policy  was taken out and 
before his 14-day cancellation  period had ended.
It was for Amtrust  to decide,  during the initial inspection, whether the central heating 
system met the standards it set to make it eligible for cover.  With that in mind,  the 
supervising engineer  who visited the property on 1 May 2018 to inspect the hot water 
cylinder noted Old manual three  making  grinding noise and leaking. Unable to replace 
without cylinder being  replaced. Whole system  requires upgrading. So while I noted 
Mr C disagreed with the engineers comments about  the corrosion and whether the valve 
couldve been removed  without damaging the cylinder, the fact remains it was the 
opinion of a senior  engineer that the system required upgrading. I didnt think that was 
particularly surprising given the hot water cylinder and associated  pipework  and valves  
were around  30 years  old. In such circumstances,  the policy terms and conditions said 
Amtrust would be unable to effect repairs. 
Having reviewed the photos Amtrust had provided, and despite what the investigator  had 
said, I could see quite  extensive corrosion on the valve  and related pipework. It looked 
from Mr Cs photos that the corrosion had been  cleaned off after the valve  was removed 
when the new cylinder was fitted. I agreed with Mr C that soldering flux residue could 
cause corrosion thats can turn out to be mainly cosmetic. But the supervising  engineer  
clearly thought the problem was more than just a surface one and noted  some leaking 
too. Mr C said theyd  never had a leak before  and suggested this only happened after 
the engineer banged  the valve.  But corrosion and the associated  pipe damage happens 
gradually over time, there was clearly  a problem with his boiler and I had little reason to 
doubt the engineers expert  diagnosis.  Also,  as the valve and cylinder had already been  
replaced there was no opportunity to carry out a further inspection. As Id already said,  
the policy doesnt cover repair work needed  as a result of a pre-existing fault.
I thought that, ideally,  Amtrusts engineers would have realised on the first visit there  was 
a problem with the hot water cylinder valve and the system  required  upgrading in order  
to be eligible for cover.  But, had that happened, I didnt  think Mr C wouldve ended  up in 
a different situation to the one he found  himself in after the supervising  engineers  visit 
on 1 May. That is that Amtrust wouldnt have covered the repairs  he needed. And I 
thought it more likely than not hed have taken the decision then that he ended  up taking 
 to replace the entire hot water cylinder in order to gain greater capacity. Amtrust 
wouldnt have been required  to contribute to the cost of that work then and it wouldnt be 
fair for me to tell them to contribute to it, simply because the problem wasnt  diagnosed 
at outset. With this in mind, I didnt  agree  with the investigator that Amtrust shouldve  
offered to pay Mr C the cost of replacing  the valve. 
Ref: DRN16954473It seemed to me that Mr C had, in effect, upgraded the part of the system that Amtrusts 
engineers had concerns about. So I assumed that would have made it eligible for cover.  
Mr C clearly wanted breakdown cover  for his entire heating system and thats what  he 
got. So I didnt  think it would be right for me to say Amtrust  shouldve cancelled  the policy 
and returned Mr Cs premium. 
I considered what compensation should  be paid given it took Amtrust  six weeks and 
several visits to properly diagnose the problem. Amtrust had already  acknowledged the 
original diagnosis was wrong.  And I questioned why, if an initial inspection was required 
to validate the cover,  this wasnt  carried out during an earlier  visit. Had it been then Mr C 
could have made his decision to replace the hot water cylinder a lot sooner, so he 
wouldve had reliable  heating and hot water  sooner  too. 
Mr C told us on 3 May 2018 that he was unhappy with Amtrusts response and planned 
to get the problem sorted at his own expense.  He also said the work  to replace his hot 
water cylinder was completed  on 25 May 2018. So that took a little over three weeks  to 
complete. I thought  it likely wouldve taken the same amount of time had the process 
been started sooner. It wasnt Amtrusts fault Mr Cs heating system  developed a fault 
and it wouldnt be fair to hold it responsible for any inconvenience  suffered  during that 
three-week period  while  Mr C found suitable contractors and had the work  done.
I explained that I could only award  compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience the policyholder has suffered  a result of a business failings  Mr C in this 
case. But that could include the effect  his familys distress and inconvenience had on him 
and I didnt doubt his own stress was exacerbated by the inconvenience they were 
suffering. I also kept in mind that Mr C and his family  wouldve suffered some 
inconvenience anyway  simply because their heating system  had stopped working 
effectively which wasnt Amtrusts fault. So the award I was inclined to make took into 
account only the trouble and upset caused  by the six-week delay resulting from 
Amtrusts misdiagnoses.  I also took into account that while  Mr C had said he was 
completely without heating and hot water, Amtrusts records suggests  the problem was 
an intermittent one. Overall, I thought £400  is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation.
Neither party made any further representations  in response to my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no-one  sent any further evidence or arguments  for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised  above.
Ref: DRN16954474My final decision
My final decision is that Amtrust  Europe  Limited  should  pay a total of £400  to Mr C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1695447