K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1999. Mr F says Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, Im not upholding this complaint 
because:
Lloyds has provided a sample  copy of a loan application form which is likely to be similar 
to what Mr F signed  when he was sold his policy.  This has a Yes box to request 
optional loan protection and a No box to decline it. From what  I know  of how Lloyds 
sold policies around  this time, I think its likely  that PPI would only have been  added to 
Mr Fs account  if there was a selection in the Yes box. So overall I think  its most likely  
that Lloyds made it clear that Mr F didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although as Im looking at events from twenty years ago I can understand why he 
might no longer remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr F so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, while  Mr F mightve  been  self-employed, I dont think that this means he 
wouldve found  it more difficult  to make a claim on the unemployment benefit.  And as 
hes confirmed that he didnt  have any other means of being able to make  his payments 
if he had to stop working suddenly,  I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit.
The information Lloyds gave  Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  For example, 
the total cost of the policy couldve been  set out clearer. But it looks like it was 
affordable. And given what  Mr F had already agreed to pay, I dont think  better  
information about  the cost of the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover in the 
first place. 
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said. But Im afraid that these points  dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1686261