K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Santander  in 1992 and bought a PPI policy at the 
same time. Santander says the policy was in both Mr and Mrs Cs names.  It doesnt  know  
what benefit split was agreed at the time and so assumes Mr and Mrs C had an equal joint 
benefit.
Among other  things, Mr and Mrs C say they didnt know PPI had been  added to their 
account.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Cs complaint didnt  uphold  it. Mr and Mrs C 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Given the time thats passed, its understandable that the available  information is limited.  
But, from what Ive seen,  I cant fairly say Santander added  the PPI to Mr and Mrs Cs 
account without  their knowledge  or consent,  as theyve argued. Theres nothing to 
suggest they didnt agree to take it, knowing they didnt have to.
Its likely  Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. So it had to check it was 
right for them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time and the 
policy details Ive got, I think that it was. For example, they werent affected by any of the 
exclusions to, or limits  on, the PPI cover.  Although  Mr C says he was self-employed  at 
the time,  the policy  he and Mrs C bought  didnt  make it difficult for a self-employed 
person to claim successfully for unemployment  benefit. 
Also, although Mrs C says she got good sick pay, the PPI could potentially have paid out 
for much longer than her full sick pay lasted  and this wouldve been  in addition to her 
sick pay. Bearing in mind  their mortgage  was secured on their home  which was at risk if 
they fell behind with their mortgage repayments, overall  I think  the PPI couldve given   
Mr and Mrs C a useful benefit  if either  of them  wasnt working.   
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But as Ive said I think its likely they agreed to take it out  so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
clearer information about the PPI wouldve put them  off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN13164262my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1316426