K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains about Santander  UK Plcs (Santander) response and approach when 
she exceeded her overdraft limit. 
background
Miss W came to us as she was unhappy  with the response from Santander to her concerns 
about the way her account was managed. She asked  them  to remove  or backdate the 
default of the account from 7 September 2015.
Santander issued  two detailed responses  to Miss Ws concerns.  In summary they were 
comfortable that theyd done everything  they could to support Miss W. They  said if shed 
made them aware sooner than 30 August 2018 of her gambling  addiction they could have 
liaised with their specialist team to manage  the account. Santander  said they didnt think  
theyd ignored  her but if they werent  aware  of her situation they couldnt offer the support 
they have available. So they didnt  agree  to remove or backdate the default as it was a 
factual reflection of how the account had ben maintained.
Our investigator didnt  think Santander  had acted unreasonably  when dealing  with Miss Ws 
case so he didnt ask them  to do anything more. He thought the various  agreements  and 
several attempts   which were broken  demonstrated Santander was dedicated in trying  to 
help Miss W and they hadnt treated  her unfairly.  And although he understood it was difficult 
to discuss and ask for help for any addiction, considering the information available to 
Santander, including what Miss W was telling them, he didnt fell theyd acted unreasonably.
Miss W didnt agree  she repeated some of her earlier points and said:
It wasnt acceptable for Santander to set up monthly reducing overdraft 
arrangements (MRO)  using  an income and expenditure form that was in isolation to 
the actual account  activity;
The reasons  she gave to Santander to explain her financial difficulties werent 
fabricated or excuses, they were other  contributing factors,  but even so she thought 
the fact that she repeatedly broke arrangements shouldve  been a red flag that 
something wasnt right and triggered a review of actual account activity;
She didnt understand how she could possibly have passed  the credit  scoring  check 
when she made  the online application  to increase her overdraft as she already 
defaulted on multiple credit agreements and was in a debt management  plan (DMP)  
from 2012;
The breakdown  of the MRO on multiple  occasions shouldve been enough to refer 
her to Santanders specialist team;
Santanders process should require a review of transactions  that caused the 
overdraft to go over its limit and further  questions to understand  the circumstances 
lead to the issues with the account. If the account activity and answers didnt match  
up then she thought  at this point  a referral to a specialist team should be made
She contrasted the approach of Santander  with that taken by another bank over the 
same period that had reviewed her account  and talked to her about the multiple 
gambling transactions although  shed never proactively told them  about the gambling 
issues.
Miss W asked for an ombudsman to review  her case.
Ref: DRN13259952my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In support of her position,  Miss W has referred me to two other complaints this service has 
dealt with previously.  But Im sure shell appreciate I have to deal with each case on its own 
merits. And looking at the cases  quoted, given the different individual circumstances, Im not 
convinced theyre  particularly relevant here.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving his opinion  on the merits of Miss Ws complaint dated 20 August 2019, so I wont 
repeat that here. Im afraid, theres  not a great deal I can add to what the investigators  
already told Miss W. I think hes covered most  points quite clearly and I agree with his 
analysis. 
Everyone agrees  Miss W only made Santander aware  of her gambling problem when she 
complained to them in August 2018. Her concern is that Santander - unlike another  bank she 
had an account  with - didnt pick up on and tackle the gambling  issue  without her disclosure. 
Miss W thinks they should have using  other  sources of information  such as the gambling  
transactions shown  on her account,  her failure  to keep to the MROs and not just looking at 
her declared  income and expenditure in isolation.
I dont doubt what  Miss Ws told us about other  banks actions in response to the same  
difficulties in her conduct of a current account  with them. But I cant say that because  
another bank  took a different approach the same  difficulties the approach  taken by 
Santander is wrong.
The information Santander have sent to this service satisfies me they responded to her 
reports of financial difficulties in a positive and sympathetic  way  as theyre  required to. Like 
the investigator I think the steps Santander  have taken in coming to various agreements to 
repay the overdraft  show and suggesting  a referral  to a debt advice charity show  theyve  
tried to help Miss W and havent done  anything to disadvantage  her or act unfairly. Im also 
satisfied Santander  have due regard to gambling problems and have training and internal 
accreditation processes  for their staff. And given both Miss Ws reluctance  to openly disclose 
her gambling  problem and the other  contributing problems she disclosed Im not persuaded 
a referral to Santanders  specialist  team would  have resulted in any different outcome here.
From everything Ive seen  I cant say Santanders response to the online application to 
increase the overdraft wasnt dealt with in line with their obligations. Banks are to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to see if an applicant can afford to repay the new 
borrowing. And I can see Miss Ws application was granted based on her income, conduct 
and credit score all of which were satisfactory  to increase it from £250 to £700.  
So I cant say that the default has either  been  wrongly recorded  or that it should be 
backdated as its an accurate  reflection  of Miss Ws dealings with her account. And it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to uphold  this complaint as I dont think Santander have done 
anything wrong  here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN13259953Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1325995