K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with the way their worktops were fitted in their kitchen  by Amtrust 
Europe Limited following their home insurance  claim for water  damage.
background
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs H made  a claim to Amtrust following a water leak which damaged  
their kitchen. The kitchen  units and worktops were  replaced, and a replacement cooker 
installed. The works also included partial  rebuilding  of an internal wall. Following the 
completion of the works, Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with the way the worktops were fitted, 
complaining that they were out of true and the overhangs inconsistent. They  further felt that 
the gap next to the cooker was too big and the worktops not square against it. They also 
pointed out that the worktops  had had sealant  put on so they fitted  against  the wall, and the 
tiles on the wall werent in line with the edge of the worktop.
Amtrust sent out its contractors, C, to inspect and measure  the worktops. Their report set out 
essentially that the worktops had been  installed as exact like for like replacements  of what  
was there  before. The gap next to the cooker was in accordance  with the manufacturers 
recommendations.
On referral to this service  our investigator  proposed that an independent report be prepared, 
and if found to be in Mr and Mrs Hs favour, for Amtrust to carry out rectification work.. 
Amtrust didnt agree  saying it was entitled  to rely on its expert  evidence  (the report  by C).
Mr and Mrs H went ahead  and instructed a contractor, L, who specialised  in granite 
worktops. His conclusions  were, as Mr and Mrs H had complained  that the worktops werent  
square and the overhangs  were  out by 10mm over the span of 1 metre. Also the worktop 
next to the tiles was too short and not flush with the line of the tiles. It said that there are 
three pieces  of worktop, only one of which had been installed adequately. However all three 
would need to be replaced  to get a proper match.
Our investigator said that in light of the report,  Amtrust should replace the three  worktops as 
recommended by L. Amtrust disagreed, saying that the photographic  evidence was 
inconclusive, and that the kitchen as it was before removal wasnt  able to be accurately 
analysed. She also said it should pay £200 compensation.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.:
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two expert reports in this case,  by C and by L. They  both appear to me to have 
equal expertise,  though I should comment  that as Amtrusts report was carried  out by C, who 
installed the worktops, it is scarcely independent.
Ls report made the following findings:
The opening where the range cooker  is, is not square.  The cooker itself is square, and 
has a worktop either side..
Ref: DRN16760742In respect of the L shape piece  of worktop on the right of the range  cooker the over 
hangs are out by 10mm over the span of 1 metre.
This same piece on the opening  end is too short in length and should be flush  with the 
tiles - its about 10mm  short of the tiles.
The report  is accompanied by photos.  Amtrust  believes that evidence is inconclusive. But I 
dont think that the measurements can be argued  with. In particular Cs report doesnt  
appear to dispute  that the worktops are out of true, but say that they were installed as they 
were originally. It also agrees that the worktops are out of square, stating We believe the 
most likely reason why the return is so far out of square is due to the end panel not being in 
its correct location  at the time of [the original] survey  and was subsequently  repositioned.
In my view whatever Amtrust says about the original worktops (which as it admits  is 
inconclusive), there can be no reason why the new worktops are out of square. They were 
measured as I understand it by a laser  survey. If the wall was out of true which I believe it 
was (although it was rebuilt) then the worktop abutting the wall may need to be sealed or cut 
into the wall. But the edges next to the cooker  should be square and it seems  that the 
worktops were measured before the end panel  was repositioned.  Also the overhang  should  
be square with the line of tiling. If the manufacturer recommends  a gap of 5mm next to the 
cooker, I dont think the contractors should change this. 
I understand that the kitchen does  appear  to be properly installed, apart from the 
measurements of the worktop. But I think that Mr and Mrs H should be entitled to have 
worktops that are square  and in line with the cooker  and the tiling on the wall, especially as it 
appears that inaccurate measurements may have been given to the worktop  supplier.  In my 
view Amtrust  should rectify  this by replacing the worktops with accurate measured ones. It 
can either do this by arranging to carry  out the replacements or by paying a cash  settlement 
to Mr and Mrs H to enable  L to do this. I think it right that it should  replace all three pieces of 
worktop, as although  one is properly fitted  it wouldnt be possible to get a match for it.
I further think that Amtrust  should  pay Mr and Mrs H £200 for the inconvenience  caused.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Amtrust Europe  Limited to:
pay for the installation  of new worktops  in Mr and Mrs Hs kitchen as Ive set out above.
pay £200 compensation.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2021.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN1676074