K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited rejected her claim under
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect  of furniture.
background
In April 2017 Mrs M bought a sofa and a chair from a retailer I will call F. She took out a fixed  
term loan with Clydesdale to fund these purchases which were invoiced separately.  The sofa 
was on display in the shop and was sold as seen and at a discount.  The chair  was made to 
order and was to match the sofa. In the invoice  and order  documents  both are described as 
leather, option  1.
The chair  was delivered several months later and Mrs M noticed it was not the same as the 
sofa. The sofa had a gloss finish and the chair was matte. She contacted F which said it had 
discovered the manufacturer had stopped making  the gloss  finish and it agreed  to replace 
both items  of furniture  with matching  fabric. However, M went  out of business  before it could 
act on this offer.
Mrs M made  a claim under section 75 which was rejected by the bank. It said the chair 
wasnt faulty as claimed by Mrs M and it presumed  the difference  in appearance of the 
leather was due to one having been sat in a shop for some  time and the other being new. It 
also rejected her complaint but offered her £25 for delays in responding to her claim.
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She said that in addition  to the chair  being faulty, F had broken its agreement  
to supply replacement  furniture. The bank maintained that an ex-display leather sofa and the 
new leather chair would  be unlikely to match and the difference was due to the wear and 
tear of the sofa. It also said that any goodwill offer made by F was outside  normal business  
and as it was no longer  trading it couldnt  be fulfilled.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He noted what  Mrs M had said,  
but he didnt believe  there had been clear breach of contract or misrepresentation. He didnt 
think there was fault with the chair and Mrs M had been given what  she had ordered. He 
thought any difference in the leather  was due to one being  on display and the other  being  
new.
Mrs M didnt  agree and said she hadnt  received what she had ordered. The two items were 
made of different leather.  I issued a provisional  decision  as follows:
I noted Mrs M had referred  to the chair  being faulty  and while  I could understand why she 
had chosen this description I thought  it somewhat misleading and it may have pushed the 
bank and the investigator to the conclusions they had both reached.  I didnt believe the chair 
was faulty. It wasnt broken and it functioned  as a chair.
The key issue was whether it was as described by F, and as ordered  by Mrs M. Both the 
sofa and chair carried the same description as to the make  up of the fabric  i.e. leather option 
1. Furthermore it seemed  only logical that Mrs M would  have ordered a chair  in the matching 
fabric and I believed  she requested  that both items be made of the same type of leather.
I accepted that there could be some discrepancy in shading and colouration  given they were 
made at different times  and one had been on display. However,  the photographs supplied  by 
Ref: DRN12018592Mrs M made  it clear to me that two different types of leather were  used. I didnt  consider  the 
difference was due to one being new and the other ex-display. Since she ordered  two items 
of furniture to be made with the same type of leather I could only conclude that the chair 
wasnt as described  on the order.
I had no reason to doubt Mrs Ms version of events and she had told us that F itself said it 
hadnt realised  the manufacturer  had stopped  using  the leather  which  covered the sofa. It 
seemed it therefore  supplied  a chair which was covered  with another type of leather. I 
believed this to be important evidence that led me to conclude that there was 
misrepresentation. Had the same leather been used there  may well have been a slight  
difference in the look of the sofa and the chair, as claimed by the bank, but that didnt mean 
that the chair  wasnt misrepresented to Mrs M when she ordered it, as she was told it would 
be the same  type of leather.
Also I noted  that the ex-display sofa was gloss and I wasnt  sure how that finish  could 
change uniformly into a matte one simply by being on display for a while.
On the second  issue  of breach of contract, I was happy to accept  that M offered to replace  
the furniture. Even if that was offered as matter  of goodwill at the time that of itself didnt take 
it outside the remit of section 75. The issue was whether this created a new contract 
between F and Mrs M, and I wasnt persuaded it did. The contract they had was for F to sell 
and for Mrs M to buy the two items of furniture. It seems that this contract was broken and 
Fs offer to remedy that defect didnt  form a separate contract.  Therefore,  I didnt consider 
there was a breach of contract  in Fs failure  to replace both items of furniture.
As set out above, I considered Mrs Ms complaint should succeed on the basis  of section 75 
misrepresentation. I had given  some thought as to what redress she should receive. I took 
take account the fact she had had the use of the furniture  for almost two years. I also 
recognised that the furniture has more than simple utility function.  In other words, how it 
looks should be considered along with its functional use. Obviously it was Mrs Ms intention  
that both items should match and that cannot  be achieved now as F has gone out of 
business.
Even though  the mismatch of leather affects  the two items as a pair, I considered that it was 
only the chair which  was misrepresented and so any redress should  be confined  to that 
contract. It cost Mrs M £1,151.90 and so I believe Clydesdale should now refund her that 
sum. As F has gone out of business  I do not consider it appropriate  to suggest that Mrs M 
return the chair.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have accepted the findings in my provisional decision and so it remains  
unchanged.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Clydesdale Financial  Services 
Limited to pay Mrs M £1,151.90 plus interest  at 8% simple from the date she paid for the 
chair until the date it is paid. This is in addition to the £25 compensation, which should also 
Ref: DRN12018593be paid if not already  done so. Mrs M is to retain  ownership of both items of furniture. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mrs M to accept or reject  
my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1201859