K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the compensation AXA France IARD (AXA) has offered to settle his 
complaint about  a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold alongside  a store  
card account. 
background
Mr D opened his store card account in June  1987  and at the same  time bought a PPI policy 
associated with the account. In September 1994 the account was closed and the PPI was 
cancelled.
Mr D complained the PPI was mis-sold.  AXA agreed  to uphold the complaint and offered 
compensation to Mr D. AXA had limited  records  about  Mr Ds account and what  he actually 
paid for the PPI. The premium in this case was added to the account annually  and AXA only 
knows the last premium was £28.50.
AXA has a formula to calculate PPI compensation when there is limited  information available 
about the actual costs  of the PPI. In this case it has applied that formula  and offered 
compensation of £1,000 to Mr D.
Mr D is not happy  with the amount  of compensation offered as he says it should  be 
substantially more. He brought  his complaint to this service and out adjudicator  said what  
AXA had offered was fair. 
Mr D remained  unhappy and asked  for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has agreed to uphold Mr Ds complaint  and pay him compensation for the PPI that was 
mis-sold. In this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, but at whether 
what has been offered  in compensation  is fair. I think it is and I shall explain why.
Generally, store cards and credit  cards have a monthly  premium  for PPI added  to the 
account, and the premium  varies each month based  on the balance outstanding. The PPI on 
Mr Ds account is rather unusual as it is paid by an annual premium.
When looking at calculating compensation for mis-sold PPI AXA has put in place a standard  
approach to work this out where there is very limited  information available about what  was 
actually paid in premiums for the PPI. This approach is based on what  other consumers  paid 
over a period  of time taken from data it has managed to put together over time. A formula  
has then been  developed  using the last known  monthly  premium in that formula  to calculate 
a fair approach identify the amount of compensation. We have considered this approach fair 
where there  is very little other information other than the last known monthly  premium  paid.
The problem in doing this in Mr Ds case is that his account did not have monthly premiums  
charged but an annual one. So AXA divided Mr Ds annual premium by 12 to ascertain what 
may have  been  charged monthly  and then used this amount  as the monthly premium  in its 
formula. 
Ref: DRN16957612Mr D feels this is unfair as he believes AXA shouldnt modify its approach and should use his 
annual premium in its calculation. But the formula was created on data based on monthly 
premiums. Therefore, using an annual  premium would not produce fair compensation as 
Mr D would be getting compensation  calculated  as if he had paid his annual premium every  
month which is not what happened.  
I think what AXA has done  to estimate  a monthly  premium based on Mr Ds annual  premium 
is fair. So then the compensation  of £1,000  is worked out in line with what  has been 
considered a fair approach to other  consumers.
The only other way to calculate the compensation in this case  would be to work out what 
Mr D may have  paid by just using  the one monthly  premium that is known and assuming  that 
same amount was paid for the full seven years  the PPI was active.  It is possible that the 
premium may have been less when the account first opened as the credit limit may have 
been less with a new account. But we cannot  be sure.
So, if you assume the same annual  PPI premium of £28.50 was charged  for the eight years  
the account was open  this means  Mr D would  have paid a total of £228.00 for the PPI 
premiums. 
Looking at the compensatory interest,  from 1987 to April 1993  the accepted rate of 
compensatory interest  is 15% simple  per year. From April 1993 onward the rate is 8% simple 
per year. Taking the different interest rates into account I have estimated Mr D would receive 
around £460.00 compensatory interest after tax.
So the PPI cost plus the compensatory  interest  would be in total around £690.00 in 
compensation if this approach was used.  This is less than the £1,000 that AXA has offered.
Mr D could have been offered  the estimated compensation  based on the one annual 
premium which is lower  at £690, rather than the £1,000.00 compensation offered by AXA 
based on its formula approach. But the formula calculation has been established on a 
monthly premium basis, so an annual premium  has to be adjusted to monthly in order  to be 
fair if the formula is used.  
No one knows for certain exactly what Mr D paid for the costs of the PPI but having 
considered all the estimates and amounts I think the £1,000.00  offered in compensation by 
AXA is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I am satisfied that the offer of £1,000.00  in 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI that AXA France IARD has offered to Mr D to settle his 
complaint is fair. So I am not upholding this complaint that more compensation should be 
paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Ref: DRN16957613Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1695761