K821x#15Complaint
P has complained that Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited,  trading  as Cashplus, wont
refund a transaction it said it didnt make.
P is a private limited company. Mr K, its director, represents P.
Background
Mr K was checking the companys online bank  account when he spotted a payment  for
£6,500 made on 7 September  2018. He said he didnt authorise this transaction but 
Cashplus refused  to refund it so he brought his complaint to this service.
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision.
I wasnt satisfied with the evidence, which had been  provided, as it was incomplete or had 
been misinterpreted. I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or comments  
they wished to make in response to my provisional  conclusions but neither party  has 
responded. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of further evidence, especially from Cashplus, I see no reason to change 
my provisional decision and so I am upholding this complaint.
In summary,  Im not satisfied that Mr K, acting on behalf of P, authorised  the disputed 
transaction because:
there is evidence from Mr Ks mobile  phone provider that a third party managed to 
get hold of his mobile phone number and account. The Communications 
Ombudsman acknowledged that a third party had gained  access to his phone  
account. I consider  this information raises the possibility of third party  fraud.
The activity log for online banking doesnt  show a log in to payments  and transfers  
on 7 September  2018, which was when the disputed  transaction occurred as 
suggested by Cashplus.
Cashplus said the IP address used  to make the disputed transaction  was linked to a 
wages bill payment for £10,000. However, Mr K said Cashplus told him this was a 
fraudulent attempt  to remove cash. Cashplus has not responded to this.
Ref: DRN18273512Based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded that P authorised  the disputed 
transaction. I think its fair and reasonable for Cashplus to refund it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.  I am asking Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited t/a Cashplus  to:
refund  the disputed  transaction  totalling £6,500
pay 8% interest on this amount from the time the transaction  left the account until
it is refunded
pay £100 for the inconvenience caused  to P for having spent time trying  to recover a 
refund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN18273513Complaint
P has complained that Advanced Payment  Solutions Limited, trading  as Cashplus, wont refund 
a transaction it said it didnt  make.
P is a private limited company. Mr K, its director, represents P.
Background
Mr K was checking the companys online  bank account when he spotted a payment for
£6,500 made  on 7 September 2018. The payee details  gave the name of a former accountancy 
firm. However, P had stopped  using  the firm several  months earlier. Also,  Mr K said he didnt 
recognise the account number. He became suspicious and contacted  Cashplus to raise his 
concerns.
Cashplus said it couldnt stop the payment and referred him to the receiving bank. It couldnt help 
him so he went back to Cashplus and asked for a refund. He said he believed someone had hacked 
into his phone  and computer to get access to his account.
Cashplus decided not to refund him. It said whoever made the payment knew the login details 
and passcode  for Ps online  account. And it said it couldnt be held responsible for any 
compromise of the online  passcode  or Mr Ks mobile  phone.
Mr K wasnt happy with this outcome and so he brought his complaint to this service.
Mr K told us the company has two employees. No one has access  to his mobile phone, which 
he keeps with him at all times. He said his wife does the administration for the company  but 
she doesnt  do the online banking.
He has a laptop, which he leaves at home in a cupboard with the bank card locked in a 
drawer above  it. He said he doesnt use the bank card. He lives with his wife.
Mr K said he didnt receive any unusual phone calls,  phishing emails  or text messages.
The investigator didnt uphold his complaint.  In summary, she was persuaded the transfer was 
most likely made and authorised by Mr K because:
the correct login  details and passcode were  entered to access  the online account
Mr K said only he knew the login  details and passcode
the transfer was made from the same  IP address as a payment of £10,000 for wages, which 
Mr K hasnt disputed
there was no explanation for how a third party got hold of the login  details for Ps online 
account.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators view and he has asked  for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant  law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, 
what I consider to have been good  industry practice  at the relevant time.
The investigators  view sets out in full the facts,  the transaction, the relevant  regulations and the 
evidence. Both Mr K and Cashplus have read the investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail 
Ref: DRN18273514here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure both that Ive read the 
file, including their comments and evidence.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that Mr K authorised the disputed  transaction. Ill explain why.
The investigator explained that the disputed transaction was made  using the login details
and a one-time passcode that was used to set up the payee as a new payee on the account. This 
was based on telephone notes provided  by Cashplus.
Ive seen the telephone  notes. They  show that it asked Mr K how a third party got hold of the one-
time passcode that would have been sent to his mobile  phone. We asked Cashplus for proof the 
one time pass  code  had been sent. It replied  this wasnt something that was in place back  in 2018.  
I find this odd. I dont understand how the adviser  could ask about a procedure which didnt  exist in 
2018.
Despite this, Cashplus did say that to access the online account, a person needed to enter the 
username and passcode for the account.  Mr K would have created  these details. And to access the 
payments and transfers section within the account,  the consumer needs to enter three randomly 
selected letters from an answer to a memorable question.
There are discrepancies in the evidence. However,  Im satisfied the disputed transaction  was 
authenticated. The payment couldnt have been made without the person entering the login details, 
passcode and information from the memorable answer.
But the regulations  relevant  to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Cashplus  
to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether  the evidence suggests  that its more 
likely than not that Mr K consented to the transfer being  made.
From what Ive seen, Im not convinced Mr K consented to the disputed transaction.
Ive seen an email from Mr Ks mobile  phone provider. The email says someone called the provider 
to change  the account details. The person  failed its security checks twice.  However, on a third call, 
the person passed the checks and changed  the email  address. At the callers request, the provider 
sent the PAC to the new email address. It also sent the PAC to the old address. The provider  
confirmed the caller wasnt Mr K.
Ive also seen  an extract  from a decision  by the Communications Ombudsman.  That ombudsman  
didnt uphold  Mr Ks complaint. However, the ombudsman  acknowledged that a third party had 
gained access to his account. And the ombudsman noted that Mr K called his provider saying he 
hadnt requested a PAC.
Based on this evidence, I consider a third party managed to get access to Mr Ks mobile 
phone number and account.
Ive also looked at the audit  report for Ps account.  I can see there are days  when Mr K logged  in to 
payments and transfers . However, this isnt recorded for 7 September  2018. In fact, the audit 
report doesnt  show what kind of online  activity took place  on 7 September. According  to the 
report, the last payment and transfer login was recorded on 14 January 2018.
The investigator referred to an online  payment  for a wages bill for £10,000, which she said was 
made from the same device and IP address. I have concerns about this piece  of evidence. 
Cashplus sent us a summary statement  for Ps account. I can see a debit for £10,000 on 28 
August 2018  for wages. However, this sum wasnt deducted from the account balance.  Indeed, 
there were insufficient funds  in the account  to meet this payment.
Ref: DRN18273515Moreover, I cant see a corresponding entry on the online audit report for this transaction  (there 
is a login  on this day but later that day). Mr K said Cashplus told him there was an attempt  to 
remove this sum by the third party.  So I assume this payment didnt go through.
The sum of £10,000  is also inconsistent  with previous payments for wages, which have  been much 
lower. At most, the figure has been £2,100. I dont consider that P wouldve  made  a payment of 
£10,000 for wages. So I dont think we can rely on this evidence.
None of this explains how the third party  knew the login details, passcode  and memorable 
information for Ps account. However, at this stage and based on the evidence,  Im afraid  I cant 
rule out third party fraud.
For these  reasons, I consider its fair and reasonable  for Cashplus to refund the disputed 
transaction.
However, I would like to make it clear that this is a provisional decision and both Mr K and 
Cashplus may respond with additional evidence. Should that happen, I will have to review  this 
decision and I may reach a different outcome.  I think its important that Mr K
understands this.
My provisional decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
I am asking Advanced Payment Solutions Limited t/a Cashplus to:
    refund the disputed  transaction totalling £6,500
    pay 8% interest on this amount from the time the transactions left the account  until it is 
refunded
    pay £100  for the inconvenience experienced  by P for the time spent having to recover it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask P to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 1 June  2020.
Ref: DRN1827351