K820x#14complaint
Ms S and Mr S say West Bromwich Mortgage  Company Limited  (The West Brom) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Ms S and Mr S took out a PPI policy in 1998 at the same time as they applied to 
re-mortgage. It was in Ms Ss sole name and protected  her against accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly  amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms S and Mr S disagreed  so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms S and Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The West Brom had to make it clear  that the PPI was optional and Ms S and Mr S had to 
agree to take it out. They say they were told Ms S had to have it to get the mortgage.
Ms S and Mr S selected a mortgage  with a discounted fixed interest  rate for a set period of 
time. This was conditional on them taking out PPI and buildings insurance through The West 
Brom. So I think they took out PPI to get the interest  rate they wanted. It doesnt mean the 
PPI was mandatory - rather  than it was mandatory to get a certain mortgage rate. But if they 
hadnt wanted PPI they could have selected  a different mortgage product. 
The mortgage offer that they signed explained their interest rate was conditional on keeping  
the PPI and buildings insurance  in place, and that if cancelled the rate would increase to the 
standard variable  rate. This suggests  to me Ms S and Mr S wouldve been aware they could 
still get a mortgage with The West Brom if they didnt want to take out any insurance, just at 
a higher price. In 2001 Ms S and Mr S wrote to instruct  The West Brom to increase their 
level of PPI cover as their discounted rate had expired and their monthly mortgage  
repayments had increased. 
So overall, I think The West  Brom made it clear the PPI was optional  and Ms S and Mr S 
agreed to take it out for Ms S. 
The West Brom recommended  the PPI to Ms S so it had to make  sure it was suitable  for her. 
I think it was. I say this because Ms S has told us she was entitled  to six months full pay and 
six months half pay if she was sick, but the PPI would have paid out in addition  to her work  
benefits and for up to 12 months. The policy also gave her up to 12 months  redundancy 
cover so it would  have protected any lump sum payment from her employer giving increased 
financial stability. 
Ref: DRN18324832Ms S says she was also entitled to an early  retirement lump sum payment  (for ill health) if 
needed. But this isnt suitable  alternative  protection, it wouldnt help with monthly mortgage 
repayments in the same circumstances  as PPI. Ms S and Mr S were borrowing a large  sum 
of money over a number  of years, secured against their home. And Ms S was the sole 
income earner at that time. Given the serious consequences of not being  able to make their 
mortgage repayments, I think the PPI would have been useful for them if Ms S was sick or 
lost her job.
Its possible The West Brom  didnt  give Ms S and Mr S all the information it shouldve when 
they were deciding to take out PPI. I dont know when the cost was first disclosed but it was 
made clear in the mortgage offer and the PPI was competitively  priced and apparently 
affordable. I also dont know if The West Brom pointed  out the main things the policy didnt  
cover. But it seems Ms S wouldnt have been  affected by any of these. So overall,  I dont 
think better information wouldve changed  their decision.
It follows I dont think Ms S and Mr S have lost out because of anything  The West Brom did 
wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1832483