K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains, through his father, that he received poor customer service from Nationwide 
Building Society and is unhappy that they have refused to pay him the incentive offered for 
switching accounts.
background 
Mr M went to a Nationwide branch in February  2018  with the intention of switching his bank 
account to them under their Recommend a Friend (RAF) scheme. The requirements  were 
that he needed to complete a full switch of accounts and move at least  two direct debits to 
the new Nationwide account. In return for the switch Nationwide would  pay him (and the 
person who referred  him) an incentive of £100.
But Mr M was told by the Nationwide employee  in branch that he was not eligible  to do a 
switch because the business from which he was switching his account  was soon to close.  
Relying on this information, Mr M opened  a Nationwide account without the switch process.
But he later phoned  Nationwide  and queried  what hed been told. And they said that hed 
been given incorrect  information. They advised him that he now needed to go into a branch 
to do a manual  switch  of accounts.
Mr M went on to complete a form for a manual switch, but it didnt go through. And he called 
Nationwide a number  of times to try and sort things out but was unable  to complete the 
switch process.
Nationwide accept that Mr M was given incorrect  information when  he initially went  to their 
branch. But they say he could have completed the switch manually. The reason his form was 
rejected was because  it contained an invalid account transfer date. And Nationwide say they 
wrote to Mr M to tell him this. But they accept that it wouldve  been  better  customer  service if 
theyd called him to explain  rather than just sending a letter.  So theyve paid him £50 
compensation for this.
Nationwide also accept  that Mr M made a number of calls to them  and that they shouldve 
logged and investigated a complaint on his behalf  earlier than they did. And theyve paid him 
£25 compensation  in recognition of this.
This total of £75 compensation, however, was not paid when Nationwide  said it would be. So 
a further £25 compensation has been paid for the delay.
Mr M wants Nationwide to also pay him the £100 RAF incentive. But Nationwide  say he is 
not eligible  for this because  he has not completed  a full switch  and has not transferred two 
direct debits to his new Nationwide account.
Our investigator thought Nationwide had not treated Mr M fairly because his current  situation 
stems from their initial error. And Mr M has been active  in trying to find out what he had to do 
to complete a switch.  So our investigator  thought Nationwide  should  pay Mr M the £100  RAF 
incentive once  hed transferred two direct debits  to his Nationwide account. 
Nationwide did not agree and so this case was passed to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision on 15th February  2019.
Ref: DRN10498662my provisional findings and decision
I explained in my provisional decision  that Id considered all the available  evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. And 
at that stage I said that I was minded to uphold Mr Ms complaint, but in a different way to 
our investigator.
I accepted Nationwides position  that Mr M is not eligible for the RAF incentive because  he 
has not met the requirements for this. He has not completed a full switch of accounts  and 
has not moved two direct  debits to his Nationwide  account.
But I did think that this was not for want of trying  on his part. So I was minded  to find that 
Mr M has missed  out on being able to receive the incentive due to a number of things that 
could have been dealt with better by Nationwide. I thought  the amount of compensation 
should be increased to reflect this trouble and upset  for the following reasons.
Mr M went to a Nationwide branch in February  2018  with the intention of switching accounts  
under the RAF scheme. He was unable  to do this because of what  he was told by a 
Nationwide employee.  And in reliance on what he was told, he opened an account without 
doing a switch.
Nationwide confirmed in a phonecall in March 2018 that he had been given wrong 
information in branch.  And he was told he had to return to his branch and complete a manual 
account transfer form if he still wanted to switch accounts.
But it appears that when he did this, he chose  an invalid  transfer  date of 14th April 2018 
because it was not a week day. This meant the form was rejected. Nationwide say they told 
him this by letter. But the letter just says the transfer  date requested is not valid and doesnt 
explicitly tell him why. Nationwide accept that it wouldve been better to have called Mr M to 
explain.
Nationwide didnt explain  this to Mr M when he called for help in April and May 2018 either.  
And its clear  in these  calls that he doesnt understand why the switch hasnt taken place and 
he even asks at one point if hes done  anything wrong.
When Mr M speaks  to Nationwide  in June 2018 he tells the call handler that he really  doesnt 
know what to do and that hes spoken  to a lot of people. The call handler here recognises 
that someone shouldve taken ownership  of the matters  Mr M had been raising earlier  and 
describes what has happened  as a catalogue  of miscommunication.
Ref: DRN10498663Following on from this, Nationwide offered Mr M £50 for failing to call him to explain why his 
manual switch application had been  rejected and £25 for not having logged  a complaint 
sooner. But even this did not go smoothly  since the full payment wasnt  made  when 
Nationwide said it would  and a further £25 compensation was paid for this delay.
So I thought  that while its right that Mr M has not completed a full switch  or transferred two 
direct debits to his new Nationwide account, this is not for want of trying  or intention on his 
part. He couldnt  do the switch in February 2018 because  he was incorrectly  told he was 
ineligible. When his manual account  transfer  form was rejected, Nationwide accept it 
wouldve been better to have  called  him to explain  why. Mr Ms later phone calls to 
Nationwide show genuine confusion about  what he had to do and Nationwide recognise that 
they should have investigated  and logged a complaint  much  earlier. Calls in May and June 
2018 also show that Nationwide were made aware that Mr M has relevant health issues.  
This chain  of events  has caused Mr M stress and inconvenience and has also meant he 
missed out on receiving the incentive  under the RAF scheme.
So I was minded to say that in addition to the £100  compensation  Nationwide  has already 
agreed to pay to Mr M, he should  be paid a further £100. To be clear, this is additional 
compensation, and not the £100  RAF incentive.
In relation to the new Nationwide account, should Mr M still wish to complete the switch, 
I thought he should be assisted in doing  so, and any eligibility for an incentive payment 
should be considered afresh.
response to my provisional  decision
Nationwide acknowledged  that theyd received my provisional decision. But they made no 
comment on it.
Mr M indicated, through his father, that he was not happy with my provisional  findings. He 
did not think that the extent of what Nationwide had got wrong had been fully appreciated. 
And he didnt think he should have to go through the process of switching accounts  all over 
again and instead should be paid further compensation of £200. But he ultimately accepted 
my decision  so as to bring matters to a close because of the impact on his health.
my further  findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr M feels strongly that Nationwide got a lot of things wrong here and that the 
amount of compensation does not reflect the extent  of the impact  of Nationwides  actions on 
him. And I appreciate that he just wants this complaint to come  an end which is why he has 
accepted my provisional findings. I want to reassure  Mr M that I have thought  carefully about 
all he has said.  But my view on this case is unchanged. I think Mr M did not get the service 
he should have  from Nationwide. And I have  nothing to add to the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision on how I thought Nationwide got things wrong. 
Its clear that Nationwides actions affected  Mr M. But its not the role of this service to use 
compensation to show disapproval or punish a business when  they make  mistakes.  The 
award of compensation here is to recognise  and reflect the impact of Nationwides  actions 
on Mr M. 
Ref: DRN10498664Nationwide accept that their customer service  was not as good as it should  have  been.  And 
theyve already paid £100  in compensation. 
But  as I said in my provisional decision   I do not think this is enough. And Nationwide  
should pay Mr M a further £100.  So this would bring the total amount of compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr M to £200.  In my view this reasonably and fairly  reflects 
the extent of what Nationwide got wrong  and is line with the kind of award  this service 
makes.
In relation to the new Nationwide account, Mr M does not currently  meet the eligibility  criteria 
for the RAF incentive.  So I remain of the view that should Mr M still wish to complete  the 
switch, he should  be assisted in doing so, and any eligibility for an incentive  payment should 
be considered  afresh. However, I completely understand that this may not be something 
Mr M wishes to do.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I order that Nationwide Building Society pay to Mr M a further 
£100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1049866