K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited acted unfairly  and unreasonably 
when dealing with a claim under a home emergency  policy. She wants Acromas  to arrange 
for the tarmac on her drive to be re-laid.
background
Mrs N had a home emergency policy. She made  a claim about drains, which was covered by 
the terms and conditions of the policy (the drain had collapsed). It was necessary for the drive  
to be dug up to access the drains.  But Mrs N was told that the policy didnt cover the costs of 
relaying tarmac on their drive and a ditch at the end of the drive. She also said that the 
contractor had promised  to re-tarmac the drive and ditch when it said it would fill all tarmac .
Mrs N complained to Acromas when the drive didnt get relaid.  It said that the terms and 
conditions of the policy stated that if it was necessary to dig on the property, it would leave the 
surface level, but not replace the original surface. Acromas said that it wasnt  bound  by what  
the contractor had said about  replacing  the tarmac,  but paid £100  as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs N complained to us. The adjudicators view was that the contractor was at fault as the 
policy didnt cover the costs of re-tarmacing the drive. He noted that the day before work 
began, Mrs N was told by Acromas that it wouldnt cover such  costs;  while  Mrs N didnt 
remember the call, the adjudicator placed  weight  on the contact notes written at the time. 
The adjudicator thought  that the compensation should  be increased to £200 as its contractor 
was at fault.
Acromas disagreed. It said that it told Mrs N the re-tarmacing wouldnt be covered  by the 
policy before  the contractor started work, and the policy clearly  confirmed  this position. 
Acromas couldnt understand why the compensation should be increased  in such 
circumstances. The adjudicator said that Acromas  was liable for the actions of its agent, the 
contractor and Mrs N had believed the contractors assurance. Acromas said that no 
additional distress  was caused which deserved  £200. Mrs N agreed  with the adjudicators  
view, but later denied  that any conversation about re-tarmacing with Acromas  took place the 
day before  the drive  was dug up and said Acromas  should pay for the costs. As agreement  
couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed  to an ombudsman for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
As a matter of law, Mrs N isnt entitled  to the costs  of re-tarmacing  the drive.  The policy 
clearly excludes the costs  of replacing  the surface if it is necessary to dig it up. And I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  for me to require Acromas to pay the costs. Before the 
drive was dug up, the contact notes written  at the time (which  I can place weight upon as 
they were written before the complaint  was raised) show that Mrs N was told by Acromas  
that it wouldnt cover the costs of replacing the surface of the drive.
Ref: DRN13952522Mrs N says that she relied on a later email from the contractor. But this email was sent after 
work started  and only refers to filling the tarmac. It arguably  doesnt  offer a new drive  
surface. The pictures of the drive sent by Mrs N shows that the drive is useable;  the ditch is 
an exposed part of the drive that can be covered by boards if desired. I think Mrs N wouldve 
proceeded with the work despite the contractors  email  in any event as the drains needed 
replacing, work had started and shed already been told by Acromas that it wouldnt cover 
the costs of re-tarmacing  the drive.
Mrs N has also given evidence about how unprofessional she found  the contractor. But 
Acromas is able to instruct a specialist to deal with the matter, and Mrs N had been told by it 
that the costs  of re-tarmacing wouldnt be covered. Mrs N said that she wasnt able to trust 
the contractor, but on this one point she decided to do so, rather than contact  Acromas  to 
confirm the position again.  I dont think its fair or reasonable  for the re-tarmacing costs  to be 
paid by Acromas.
Having considered the circumstances, I cant see why £200 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. Much of Mrs Ns upset  is about  matters about which she didnt ask this service 
to consider and the refusal to re-tarmac her drive,  for example the alleged  lack of 
professionalism on the part of the contractor.  I think £100 is fair and reasonable for the 
trouble and upset  caused by the contractors email, and reflects the fact that Mrs N had been 
given the correct information  by Acromas, both within the policy and on the phone.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Acromas  didnt  comment but Mrs N did. She said 
that the email  from the contractor was sent before work started, but accepted that minor 
works in relation to the drains had started before the email was sent.  Mrs N said it was 
reasonable to rely on the email from the contractor,  but said I shouldnt rely on its precise 
wording as the staff involved  werent native English speakers (which was why Mrs N felt the 
phrase fill all tarmac meant a new section  of drive). Mrs N denied speaking  to Acromas  
prior to work starting and being told that the costs of a new drive wasnt  covered by the 
policy, and said she only wanted part of the drive  re-laid. Mrs N mentioned she hadnt  
cashed the cheque from Acromas  and it was now put of date.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs N has said, but I havent changed my view that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. Work  had started before the email from the contractor was 
sent as Mrs N herself accepts, and I think its reasonable for me to consider the wording of 
the email itself. Mrs N hadnt  mentioned before that the email  itself shouldnt  be treated as 
accurate. 
Im also satisfied that its fair and reasonable for me to place weight on the contact notes 
from Acromas  (made at the time of events) which record the conversation with Mrs N, 
particularly as the contents  simply  reflect  what is already  set out in the terms and conditions  
of the policy. The expiry of the cheque isnt relevant to my decision.
Ive reviewed the evidence available to me and think  that the view set out in my provisional 
decision is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances,  despite  Mrs Ns objections,  for the 
reasons I set out.
Ref: DRN13952523my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Mrs N to contact 
Acromas Insurance  Company Limited  to get the £100 cheque reissued if it hasnt been 
presented for payment.  Under the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im required to 
ask Mrs N to accept  or reject my decision before 4 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1395252