K820x#14complaint
Mrs A, through her daughter Ms A, complains that Acromas Insurance  Company Limited  
(Acromas) has failed  to properly consider her claim on her legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Acromas, this includes its agents  and claims handlers. 
background
Mrs A made a claim on her policy to cover the legal costs of pursuing a medical negligence 
case. 
On reviewing the information provided  to them, Acromas declined the claim as they felt 
Mrs A had missed the time limit for taking legal  action  in the court.  As she didnt agree, her 
daughter brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said that if Acromas wanted to decline a claim based on a legal point, they 
should have taken legal advice from a suitably qualified  lawyer. As they hadnt, she asked  
them to fund a legal  opinion of the claim.  Both Mrs A and Acromas agreed  with this outcome.  
At this time, Ms A provided an amended chronology of events as she said the dates were 
wrong in the previous one she had provided.  
Acromas passed the claim  to one of its panel firms  of solicitors. They said that based  on all 
the information  including Ms As revised  chronology  the claim was more likely than not 
out of time. 
Ms A doesnt agree with the legal advice.  She feels the solicitors  have  relied solely on her 
previous chronology. But our investigator was satisfied the solicitors had taken into account  
the full facts of the case and so Acromas  was entitled to rely on it. As Ms A doesnt agree, 
the case has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs As policy includes  cover  for pursuing a legal  claim that arises from an event, which  
causes death  or bodily injury to you. So her claim for medical negligence was potentially  
covered. But as with all insurance policies, there  are terms and conditions limiting the cover 
available. 
The policy terms say a claim must have reasonable prospects of success, which means  it 
must be more likely than not that the policyholder will win their case. The policy defines this 
as where we consider  there is a 51% and above  chance of succeeding with your claim and 
enforcing any award and that it would be reasonable to advise any private paying client in 
the same  circumstances to pursue the claim.
I would expect an insurer to get legal advice  before  deciding whether a claim has reasonable 
prospects. And the insurer is entitled  to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong. I can 
see that Acromas has obtained legal advice  from a suitably qualified lawyer  and that advice 
sets out in detail why they believe the claim  is out of time. The solicitors have provided  
Ref: DRN19790752comments on the revised chronology and why this doesnt alter their opinion that its too late 
to take the case  to court. This means there  isnt a reasonable chance of Mrs A being 
successful with her legal claim.
Im only considering Mrs As complaint about how her insurance claim was dealt  with. My 
task is to consider  whether Acromas  dealt with it fairly and in line with the policy  terms. Its 
not for me to review  the merits of the underlying  legal dispute or the legal advice from the 
solicitors; I cant  tell the solicitors what evidence  they should rely on or what their advice 
should say. As Ive explained, Acromas have  obtained a legal opinion  and it was reasonable 
for them to rely on that advice when deciding  whether cover is available for this claim. 
If Mrs A obtains legal advice that her case is within the court  deadlines and has a reasonable 
chance of being successful, Id expect Acromas to reconsider  the claim  and in fact 
Acromas has already told Mrs A it will do that. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1979075