K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that she had to pay £431.82  for insurances after she returned her car to 
PSA Finance UK Limited, trading as Peugeot Financial Services,  when her hire purchase  
agreement ended.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs B under a hire purchase agreement with Peugeot  Financial 
Services that she signed in December 2015.  When the agreement was ending in 2018  she 
was told by Peugeot  Financial Services that shed have to pay £431.82  for insurances. But 
she says that shed been told by the dealer that shed have the option to return  the car at the 
end of the agreement with nothing  further to pay. She complained  to Peugeot  Financial 
Services but wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that the 
insurance was purchased  in full when Mrs B signed the agreement and that she needed to 
pay for it as shed had use of it throughout her agreement. So she couldnt say that Peugeot 
Financial Services had acted unfairly by asking for the final payment for the insurances.
Mrs B has asked  for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says that the 
contract is very unclear and that the same  statement is made  in the agreement about the 
last payment for the car and the last payment for the insurances - but she doesnt have to 
make the payment for the car but does have to make the payment for the insurances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B entered into a hire purchase  agreement with Peugeot Financial Services in December 
2015 for a new car to be supplied to her. She also took out gap insurance,  smart insurance 
and tyre and key insurance which were financed under the agreement.  She made an 
advance payment of £1,300 for the car and agreed  to make one payment of £183.95,  35 
payments of £184.03  and a final payment of £5,035 (which was optional and only payable if 
she kept the car). She also agreed  to pay £1,000 for the insurances by one payment of 
£15.88, 35 payments of £15.78 and a final payment of £431.82.
So Mrs B had the car for about three  years  and made all of the payments  that were  required 
for it under the agreement but then returned  the car so didnt  have to make the final payment 
of £5,035. The car was returned  to Peugeot  Financial Services for it to deal with as it chose. 
Mrs B had chosen to insure the car during that time and the cost of the insurance was 
£1,000. Shed made the first payment of £15.88 and 35 payments of £15.78  when she 
returned the car but she hadnt  made  the final payment of £431.82. Shed had the full benefit 
of the insurance  so I consider it to be fair and reasonable that she has to pay for it. Shes 
made the payment of £431.82 to Peugeot Financial Services but wants  it to refund that 
amount to her.
Im not persuaded that its likely  that the dealer wouldve told her that she wouldnt have to 
make the final payment  for the insurances if she returned the car when the agreement  
ended. I can understand Mrs Bs claim that the agreement is unclear as the wording for the 
Ref: DRN15176752payments for the car is broadly the same as the wording for the insurances. But shes 
returned the car and had the full benefit  of the insurance. 
So Im not persuaded that Peugeot Financial Services has acted incorrectly in charging 
Mrs B for the final payment for the insurance.  And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
in these circumstances for me to require it to refund the £431.82 to Mrs B  or to take any 
other action  in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1517675