K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Society of Lloyds (SOL)  applied a 20% reduction to the settlement
when he made a claim on his car insurance policy following  the theft of his car.
background
Mr W had car insurance with SOL and made a claim when his car was stolen from outside
his house. SOL instructed  an investigator to investigate the claim.  The investigator was
satisfied the claim was covered, but he said he thought Mr W was parking his car in a
parking space as opposed to a driveway,  which is what Mr W had said was where  he would
be parking the car.
SOL agreed to settle  the claim by paying Mr W the cars market  value (which it estimated to
be £49,000), less his excess. But it thought  Mr W had misrepresented  where he would have
kept the car overnight. Consequently,  it reduced  the settlement offer (which was based on
the market value of the car) by 20%, which amounted to a reduction of £9,960.
Mr W complained  to SOL, but it still thought the reduction was fair. It said that after
consideration of the photographs of the location along with Mr Ws arguments about the
definition of a driveway,  it maintained the location  was more akin to a parking  space  than a
driveway. It said Mr W had been  asked a clear  question  which  it didnt think hed answered
correctly. It explained  its underwriters would have charged an additional  20% on the
premium if theyd known  the car would be parked overnight in a parking space  rather than on
a driveway and therefore thought a proportionate  reduction in the settlement was fair.
SOL accepted it had undervalued the car and increased the value to £49,800. And it said it
would add interest to the settlement to reflect the fact £49,000  had originally been offered  in
error instead of £49,800 (minus  the £2,000 excess).
Mr W wasnt satisfied  and so he complained to this service. He stated the area outside his
house is a driveway  and argued the definition of a driveway and the layout of the road
support his argument that the 20% reduction was unfairly applied.
my provisional findings
I considered SOLs valuation of the car of £49,800 was fair and noted  it hadnt been disputed  
by Mr W. I commented  the crux of this complaint is whether SOLs  decision to reduce that 
offer by 20% for misrepresentation was fair.
I explained relevant  law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and 
Misrepresentation) Act (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance  contract  (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what  CIDRA  describes as - a qualifying  misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show  it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt  made the misrepresentation.
SOL thought  Mr W failed  to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation  when he
stated during a telephone call that the overnight  storage  location  of his car was a driveway.
Ref: DRN19207732I was satisfied the statement of fact document  contained a clear  question and SOL couldnt
reasonably be expected  to qualify that question further. It had argued the area posed  a 
greater risk than a driveway,  and I didnt dispute  this. But the question  for me was whether  
Mr W failed to take reasonable care when he told SOL the car was parked overnight  on a 
driveway, and I didnt think he did.
He had explained the area in dispute is a small private road that he owns, and which  is
within his plot curtilage, therefore no other party can lawfully park their vehicle without his
consent. The area is in front of his house  and is jointly maintained  by him and a private
management company  (which he pays for), rather than the local authority.
Mr W had also explained hes always insured his car as being parked on a driveway,  as 
does his neighbour. However, SOL said it considered the neighbour to have a driveway, as 
this area is separated from the road and therefore represents  a lower risk. But he argued 
both areas  are separated from the road by contrasting block  paving  and his neighbours are 
still required  to walk onto the pavement to access their house from the area where  they park
their car.
SOL argued the question was answered  incorrectly and that the car was parked on a parking
space on a road, not a driveway.  But I wasnt persuaded  this is the case  and thought  its
significant that SOL didnt explain what it considered a driveway to be when  Mr W applied for
the policy. The issue is what Mr W reasonably considered to be a driveway,  and I was 
satisfied he did act reasonably in describing  where he parked his car overnight  as a 
driveway.
I accepted the parking area is separated from the house by a pavement and could therefore 
be described as a parking bay. But Mr W had set out that this is a privately-owned piece of
land and I thought this was critical to the issue of whether it was reasonable for Mr W to 
have described  it as a driveway, as is the fact its separated and distinguished from the road 
by contrasting  block paving.
Overall, I was satisfied Mr W did give a fair consideration to the question  he was asked. And 
I thought his description of the parking area as a driveway was reasonable and that he didnt 
fail to take reasonable care when  he answered  SOLs question. Therefore, I wasnt  
persuaded he made a qualifying misrepresentation when he took out the policy  (or at 
subsequent renewals) and so SOLs decision to apply a 20% reduction to the settlement was 
unfair and unreasonable. Consequently,  I thought  it should pay the settlement in full, plus 
interest.
developments
Both parties  have accepted my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  findings, the findings  in my final decision will 
be the same  as the findings in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN19207733my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and I direct Society of Lloyds to pay Mr W £49,800. This is to include
a payment of 8% simple interest* from the date of the claim.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Society  of Lloyds to take off tax from this interest, they
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one. He
may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1920773