K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limited (Admiral) declined a claim 
brought under her home contents insurance policy.
background
Mrs S held a home contents insurance  policy  with Admiral, which provided cover  for her and 
her partner/spouse and family, which included Mrs H. In May 2018 Mrs S was burgled and a 
number of items were  stolen. A claim was made  under the insurance policy.  The burglary 
took place around  7.30am and it was thought  likely that the intruder entered  the property  
through an open window  in the downstairs  bathroom.
Mrs S says she was in the property at the time as was another family member, Mrs H. The 
window had been opened after a shower.  The intruder was seen and Mrs S went to inform 
the family  member who called the police.
Admiral declined the claim, relying  upon  a security endorsement in the policy schedule as 
follows:
Just to let you know an endorsement will be applied to your policy  that requires you to use 
the locks your home has whenever you leave it or go to bed. If you don't use them you might  
not be covered  for theft or burglary from your home
Minimum security  requirements
f. When you go to bed, all the window and door locks  and bolts  fitted to your home, other 
than for windows in occupied  bedrooms, are put into effective  operation and keys removed 
and placed out of sight or reach of a potential intruder. (For safety reasons keys should be 
accessible to the occupants so that the property can be exited  in an emergency)
Admiral accept they didnt  initially explain about  the exclusion when the claim was raised and 
theyve apologised  for any inconvenience caused, offering £50 in compensation.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought the exclusion did not apply as Mrs S 
was in the property and the burglary did not happen at night. She thought it was not fair and 
reasonable for the windows to be closed and locked each time someone  left a room  at the 
property. Our investigator asked Admiral to meet the claim within the existing terms and 
conditions and recommended a payment of £150 for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter had caused.
Admiral disagree with the view, maintaining that the claim was declined  because the 
bathroom window  had been  open.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive listened to the call made  at the time 
by Mrs H.
Ive considered whether Admiral have acted  in accordance with the terms and conditions  of 
the policy and whether  they have dealt with the claim fairly.
Ref: DRN16190272It is not disputed  that a burglary took place and it is not disputed  that the bathroom  window  
was open in the morning.  The time of the burglary has not been challenged by Admiral.  The 
issue in this complaint  is whether it was fair and reasonable to decline the claim under the 
endorsement relied upon by Admiral.
I am satisfied that a consistent account  has been  given on behalf of Mrs S. I find that the 
property was occupied  at the time. The bathroom was on the ground  floor.  Further I consider 
it likely  that Mrs S (the policyholder)  was awake and up. This was stated at the time the 
insurer was called. Admiral appear  to have misunderstood this. Mrs S saw the intruder, Mrs 
S then went  to wake Mrs H. It has not been  said that all occupants were asleep.
Mrs S says she opened the window after a shower.  On balance,  I accept the account given 
on behalf of Mrs S is plausible given the time of day at which the burglary occurred.
This is not a situation where  the burglary took place at night and the term cannot  reasonably  
be interpreted as meaning that windows must  be shut at all times in the day when the 
property is occupied. Whilst  there is some reference  to the wear and tear of the window,  this 
isnt relevant as entry  was gained  because the window was open. On the basis of the facts 
set out above,  I consider that it was not fair and reasonable for Admiral  to rely on the above 
endorsement in the particular circumstances  surrounding  this complaint. 
Admiral should therefore  consider the claim under  its remaining terms and conditions.
Ive also taken into account that Admiral  didnt refer to the exclusion during the initial  call. 
There was a delay  raising this issue.  I am satisfied that distress and inconvenience has been 
suffered and on balance, I consider that £150 is a fair and reasonable award to compensate 
for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint. I direct  Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)  
Limited to:
i. consider the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
ii. pay Mrs S £150 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1619027