K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV)  decision to 
deny his motor  insurance  claim and cancel his policy.
background
Mr M made a claim on his motor  insurance policy with LV in early March  2018, after a road 
traffic accident. Due to the circumstances of the accident, LV appointed a third-party 
company, who Ill call C, to validate the claim.
C interviewed Mr M and analysed the accident circumstances to provide a report explaining 
whether they believed  the claim to be genuine.  They sent this to LV on 12 April.  LV decided  
after receiving this report to take Mr M out of his courtesy car before asking C to make  
further investigations. C sent their second report to LV on 18 May. 
LV took this report  into consideration  and decided to decline Mr Ms claim as well as cancel 
his insurance policy.  They said they were unable  to accept it was a genuine  accident  as:
They felt there were inconsistencies around the cause  of the accident.
They felt both parties gave a different version  of events regarding who left the 
scene first.
They disputed that Mr M wouldve been  able to drive his car away  from the 
scene.
Images provided by the third party suggested  the accident  took place at a 
different time to the time that was reported.
They werent satisfied  with the reported  occupancy of Mr Ms car.
So, they asked  Mr M to confirm whether hed like his car returned from storage and invoiced 
him for the remainder of his insurance premium.
Mr M was unhappy with this decision.  He complained that LV were unfair to decline the claim 
and cancel his policy. He explained the time difference  on the photos  resulted from the third 
party setting his phone to Turkeys time zone as he was due to travel there. He didnt think 
LVs conclusions were fair and because of this he was now unable to purchase  insurance as 
he believed  the cancellation had been  reported to insurance databases. So, he wanted  his
car to be repaired or its total loss value paid to him as well as the cancellation marker 
removed.
LV didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. LV thought they had made a fair conclusion  based on all 
the evidence they had been provided.  So, they asked Mr M to confirm  whether hed like his 
car returned from storage. Mr M was unhappy with this response,  so he referred his 
complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and upheld  it. He thought LV were  unfair  to decline 
the claim as he didnt think they had enough  evidence to support their decision that the claim 
was fraudulent. So, they thought LV should  reinstate  the insurance  policy, remove any 
cancellation marker that had been reported and deal with the claim. 
LV disagreed with this view. They re-iterated their reasons for declining the claim and felt 
these were strong enough to decline the claim, in line with the terms of the insurance policy.  
As LV disagreed,  the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN17435262I issued a provisional decision on 10 January 2020, where I explained  my intention  to uphold 
the complaint.  In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its my intention  to 
uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. But the actions I think 
LV need  to take are slightly different and Ill explain  why.
First, I think its important for me to explain  how Ive considered the complaint. LV have 
declined Mr Ms claim and cancelled his insurance policy  as they believe the claims 
fraudulent. In their letter sent to Mr M to make him aware of their decision they quote  the 
following term of his policy:
31. Claims Fraud  If you or anyone representing  you makes a claim or part of a claim that 
is fraudulent, false or exaggerated, we may reject the claim or reduce the amount of 
payment we make.
Declining a claim for this reason has a significant impact  on Mr M so there must be clear  
evidence to support  this decision. This evidence must persuade me that its more likely than 
not that Mr M made  a fraudulent claim,  and this is a high bar to meet. In this instance, I dont 
think the evidence  has and Ill explain why. 
LV say there  were inconsistencies around the cause of the accident which  led them to 
decide the claim was fraudulent. Much of this is based around the two reports  provided by C. 
Ive seen the letter LV sent to Mr M declining his claim  following the second report. This 
letter discusses the differences  between Mr Ms version of events  and that of the third party. 
Mr M says there were  no cars on the roundabout,  and he hadnt noticed the third-party  car, 
meaning he failed  to slow in time. The third party says they stopped as other cars were on 
the island  and they were hit while stationary.
So, I agree  the witness statements dont completely align. But I think its important to 
recognise that any accident  will include some kind of error for it to happen.  LV focus greatly  
on Mr M not seeing the taillights of the third-party  car, saying  they dont understand how he 
couldnt see the lights. But, as Mr M has commented, I think  its likely when travelling at the
speed he explained he couldve failed to notice them if he made an error and wasnt paying 
full attention. 
Ive also seen the second report  C provided  which explains they were unable  to conclusively 
conclude that it was staged but thought there  were  too many discrepancies  for accident to 
be considered  genuine.  So, I think C are suggesting that the accident was planned between 
Mr M and the third party. If this was the case, I wouldnt expect Mr M and the third party to 
provide differing witness statements.  The fact there  are differences  leads me to believe they 
were genuine  accounts of what  both parties remember  of an accident  that wouldve been  
traumatic at the time. 
I must also recognise the witness statement from the third party, which  C used to generate  
the second report, was taken on 8 May, almost three months after the accident took place. I 
think this is a significant length of time and this couldve  impacted the third partys 
recollection of events. So, I think its reasonable to expect there  may be some 
inconsistencies between  the statements of both parties. So, I dont think the differences  in 
Ref: DRN17435263the witness statements  around the accident  circumstances  alone  are enough for LV to 
decline the claim. 
LV have also said there were differences in both statements about  when  the third party left 
the accident scene. Both parties  said the accident happened around 10.30pm and both 
agreed that the third party left the scene first. But, the third party said he left the scene after 
around 30 minutes while Mr M said it was around  10 minutes later.  So, there is a slight  time 
difference. But I dont  think  this is a large enough  difference to suggest  either  party were 
purposely providing false information  when  considering theyd just been in an accident and 
the trauma this wouldve  caused. I also dont think the amount of time either party  remained 
at the scene is material to whether the accident was genuine so again  I dont think  this 
difference is enough to decide the claim is fraudulent.
LV also queried  whether Mr M was able to drive his car from the scene due to the damage it 
sustained. They said it was likely to overheat due to the damage. But Ive seen an engineers  
report that LV requested to confirm whether the damage was consistent with the accident 
circumstances. This confirms the damage  was consistent as well as saying The possibility 
that the Ford was able to be driven  from the scene cannot be ruled out. So, I dont think  its 
fair for LV to conclude  that Mr M saying he drove the car away  to be a reason to decline the 
claim as theres no evidence to suggest  he didnt.
But LV also argued  that if Mr M did drive his car from the scene, it shouldnt have taken him 
until around midnight  to park it at a local hotel  car park.  Theyve said the journey should  take 
15 minutes due to the distance. But this doesnt  consider the condition  of Mr Ms car. I think 
its likely  he wouldve driven at a much lower speed which wouldve impacted the amount of 
time to get there. Ive also seen three  of Mr Ms occupants were collected and driven home 
separately. I cant see LV made further  enquiries  to understand how long this wouldve 
taken. Mr M also explained he went to another hotel first, where the car park was full, before 
parking at a second hotel.
All of this could have  added to the time it took him to park his car and midnight  is only an 
approximate time given by Mr M. So, I dont  think LV have investigated  this to the extent that 
persuades me Mr Ms account has been  falsified.  I think it couldve taken him this long to 
park the car following  the accident.  So, I dont  think its fair for LV to use this as a reason to 
argue the claim  is fraudulent.
LV have also said they arent satisfied with the occupancy of Mr Ms car. But Ive seen that 
both Mr M and the third party provided the same  information about  how many people  were in 
the car. While LV made tentative enquiries about why the passengers were in Mr Ms car, 
none of these passengers made  a claim against  the policy.  Because  of this, I dont think the 
occupancy of Mr Ms car is relevant to the validity of Mr Ms claim, and I dont think its 
reasonable to include  this as a reason as to why the claim should  be declined.
From what  Ive seen, the biggest inconsistency comes from the time stamp of the images the 
third party provided. Ive seen that when analysed they say they were  taken  after 1am the 
following morning, which doesnt fall in line with the accident time provided by either party.  I 
agree with LV that this is an inconsistency I wouldnt expect to see. But Mr M explained the 
third partys  phone was set to a Turkish time as he was Turkish  himself and was due to fly 
out to Turkey in the next month. Ive seen Turkey  at that time of year is three  hours ahead of 
UK time, meaning the time the photos  were taken  would  fall around the time both parties 
approximated the accident to occur.
Ref: DRN17435264But I can understand why the time stamp of these images raised suspicion with LV. It is 
unusual for someone  to set their phone to a different time zone and Id expect this to cause 
LV some concern, so I think they were reasonable to question  this. But I cant see any other 
investigations were  taken to validate  when the accident occurred.  Both parties gave the 
same approximate time in their witness statements. I think  Mr Ms explanation about  the 
photos, whilst unusual,  isnt entirely implausible and this on its own isnt enough for LV to 
decide the claim is fraudulent.
When considering  all the above,  although I recognise there are some  inconsistencies,  I dont 
think they are strong enough to satisfy me that its more likely than not that Mr Ms claim was 
fraudulent. So, I dont think LV were reasonable to decline  the claim and cancel Mr Ms 
insurance policy.
putting things right
When considering  what actions LV need  to take to put things  right, its my role to place Mr M 
back in the position he wouldve been  if LV had handled his claim correctly.  So, I think LV 
need to reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy  terms 
and conditions. Mr M should be aware that this means LV will now look at the policy  terms to 
see if the claim is a valid one, as up to now it hasnt done so, having  focused its attention  
solely on the fraud clause.  Its only fair that LV now has the opportunity to assess the claim 
against the remainder  of the policy.
Mr M has explained he was unable to afford his insurance premiums after LVs decision to 
cancel his policy. So, Mr M has explained hes had to use public transport and has also been 
worried his no claims discount  would become invalid after two years  of being unable  to drive.  
Mr M hasnt  been able to provide me with evidence of a direct financial loss. LV has also 
confirmed they didnt report the cancellation.  But Mr M wouldve had to declare the 
cancellation when  seeking new insurance,  so I think its likely the prices  wouldve increased.
After the accident,  Mr M purchased a new car which he added  to the policy before it was 
cancelled. So, if LV hadnt cancelled  his insurance unfairly, I think  hed have been able to 
continue driving  his car. So, I think hes been  inconvenienced by LVs decision to cancel his 
policy and they should make a payment to compensate for this.
Having considered the length of time Mr M has been  without an insured car, I think a 
payment of £500  recognises the inconvenience he has experienced. I also think  LV should 
re-instate Mr Ms no claims discount that hed have been entitled to if the claim had been 
processed, considering it was a fault claim and any impact this may have had.
responses
Mr M accepted the provisional decision and provided no further  comments. LV didnt accept 
the provisional decision. They thought Mr Ms decision to accept their repudiation and not 
challenge it was unusual and thought this showed  he was aware  hed made a fraudulent 
claim. They thought it was unlikely the third party  wouldve  changed the time zone of his 
phone, especially when he was travelling aboard  due to the unforeseen death of a family  
member. So, they thought  the time inconsistencies still stood. They  thought Mr M had 
purchased his new car before the accident, rather  than after, and felt this supported their 
position about the legitimacy of the claim.  
Ref: DRN17435265And they also questioned the behaviour of Mr M when he was interviewed a second time as 
they couldnt understand why he would refuse to sign the statement on this second 
occasion. They thought, when all these points were considered together, it was most likely 
that Mr Ms claim  was fraudulent. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong and 
shouldnt have to do anything more.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reasons to 
change my original conclusions. Ive focused my comments  on what I think  is relevant. If I 
havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected  what  I think 
is the right outcome.
LV have commented on Mr Ms decision to walk away from the claim and not challenge 
their repudiation. They suggest these actions were  an admission of Mr Ms guilt.  But I dont 
think this is fair. I understand the majority  of their customers in this situation may have 
contested it more vigorously. But it isnt my role to compare Mr Ms response to a situation 
against another persons.  Mr M is clearly unhappy  about the repudiation and raised a 
complaint about  it. And following that, hes brought the complaint to our service.  So, I think  
its clear hes unhappy  with the decision to repudiate  his claim and hes taken  reasonable 
steps to challenge it. So, I dont think this impacts my decision on whether LV have  acted 
fairly.
And Ive considered the point LV raised  about the time zone. But my original conclusion 
remains. I agree that it wouldnt  be the usual practice for someone  to change the time zone 
of their phone.  But, its not implausible. And as both parties  gave the same approximate  time 
of the collision, and no further investigations into the time of the accident  were undertaken, I 
dont think the time stamp  of the images  provided alone are enough  to say the claim was 
more likely than not fraudulent.  
The most crucial point LV raised after my provisional decision related to the date Mr M 
purchased his new car. And Ive seen the date on the V5 suggests the car was bought  
before the accident. So, I can understand why LV would consider this, and the fact the car 
involved in the accident was running out of tax and arrive at the conclusion that the accident 
may have  been  staged. But Mr M has provided  me with an invoice to show  the car he added 
to his policy, after the collision, was purchased on 23 March  2018 from a seller  in Aberdeen. 
And Ive also seen a flight ticket  to show Mr M travelled to Aberdeen on 28 March  2018 to 
collect this car. So, although  Im unable to explain why the date on the V5 doesnt correlate, 
Ive seen enough evidence to convince me the car was purchased  after the accident.  
Because of that, I dont think LVs point about  the purchase of the vehicle supports their view 
that the claim was fraudulent.
And finally, Ive considered LVs point around  Mr Ms conduct when he refused to sign a 
second statement. Im unable to speculate as to why he felt this was the correct thing to at 
that time.  But I dont  think him taking this stance  is enough to provide the claim was 
fraudulent. Im mindful  that he co-operated with the investigations initially and signed  the first 
statement that he gave.  So, I dont think he obstructed the investigation in a way that 
prevented LV from coming to a decision. I can understand why Mr M refusing to sign the 
second statement  wouldve been  concerning  for LV, but I can also appreciate  why Mr M may 
have been left frustrated at the amount of time it was taking to finalise the claim and the level 
of scrutiny he was under.  And I dont  think this frustration signals guilt.
Ref: DRN17435266Because of the above, although I recognise there have been  some inconsistencies, I dont 
think they are enough to show, more likely  than not, that the claim was fraudulent. So, I dont 
think LV acted fairly when they declined  Mr Ms claim  and cancelled  his insurance  policy.
And so, I think they must take steps to place  Mr M back in the position  he wouldve been, 
had LV not acted unfairly. To do this, I think they should re-instate Mr Ms policy  and assess  
the claim again, in line with the terms and conditions. And they should also re-instate any no 
claims discount Mr M held and was entitled to, considering this was a fault claim.
And I think LV should pay Mr M £500 to compensate him for the inconvenience  and upset 
this situation has caused him. Had LV assessed Mr Ms claim fairly,  hed have been  able to 
drive the new car he added to his policy. So, this takes into the account the length of time Mr 
M has been unable to drive his car, as hes been  unable to afford the insurance due to the 
increase in price  caused by LVs cancellation.  I recognise they didnt  report this, but Mr M 
wouldve been required  to declare  it when  seeking insurance elsewhere.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint  about  Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited  and direct them to take the following action:
Re-instate the insurance policy that was in place.
Process the claim in line with the remaining  policy terms and conditions.
Make  a payment  of £500 to recognise the inconvenience Mr M has experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 November 2020.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1743526