K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  about Aviva Insurance Limiteds  handling of her claim under her home 
insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes their agents.  
background
On 5 October 2018 Ms E made a claim to Aviva in relation to her laptop. Aviva say Ms Es 
account of what  had happened  to her laptop  changed during different phone  calls. 
They later arranged for a technician  to examine the laptop. The technician  noted that the 
laptop was water damaged and wouldnt power up. But he was able to establish that the last 
time the laptop  had been used was on 9 October. 
Aviva declined the claim and told Ms E this was as they believed it was fraudulent. They also 
explained that they may share her details on fraud databases and that they would cancel the 
policy. They  highlighted a policy term to support their decision. 
Being unhappy with this Ms E complained. She says she hasnt acted dishonestly or 
exaggerated her claim.  Aviva maintained  that theyd acted correctly  and so Ms E 
approached our service.  
One of our investigators  thought the complaint should be upheld. He noted that water 
damage is something the policy  provided cover for. So although he agreed  Ms E may have 
acted dishonestly, he recommended  that the policy should be reinstated  and the claim 
reconsidered. 
Aviva disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. I reached  a different 
conclusion and so on 25 March 2019  I issued  a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Let me explain why. 
Ms Es policy says If your claim is in any way dishonest  or exaggerated we will not pay any 
benefit under this policy or return any premium to you and we may cancel your policy 
immediately and backdate the cancellation to the date of the fraudulent claim. This is a 
common term across  many types of insurance  and I dont consider it to be inherently unfair. 
I think it is reasonable for an insurer to require that customers are truthful  and honest with 
them. 
Ms E made two phone calls to Aviva on 5 October in relation to her claim. Ive listened to 
both those calls.  In the first call Ms E explains that her laptop  isnt working and that it just 
freezes. Aviva explained that it didnt sound  like this was something the policy  covered. They 
said it could be a software fault and gave some examples of things that were covered such 
as theft, loss and accidental  damage.  At this point Ms E said that the laptop was lost and she 
didnt know where  it was. 
The call handler challenged this change of story. Ms E said not to worry and that she will 
phone back later. The call handler  explained that he would make  a record  of their 
Ref: DRN12863432conversation. Later the same day Ms E calls back,  this time she explained that she thought  
her children might have dropped the laptop around a week earlier.  
Aviva said that the claim had been  declined earlier that day, but they agreed  to arrange for 
the laptop to be examined by a technician. The technician found no evidence to support that 
the laptop had been dropped. But he did report that it would  not power up at all and was 
water damaged. He was also able to establish  that the laptop had last been used on 
9 October; four days after the claim had been made.  
I dont think Aviva are being  unreasonable in concluding that Ms E has acted dishonestly  in 
relation to her claim. I say this because her story has changed between and within the phone  
calls and the evidence  from the technician doesnt  support her version of events. 
I find the technicians  report to be persuasive  evidence. This shows the laptop was 
successfully used on 9 October. So at some point  between then and the examination,  which 
took place around  a week later,  the laptop  became water damaged  to the extent that it 
wouldnt switch on. But Ms E said that the laptop wouldnt switch on during the second call 
with Aviva on 5 October.
Ms E says she was speaking rhetorically when she said that the laptop was lost during her 
initial phone call. She also hasnt offered an explanation as to why the laptop was water 
damaged and why there wasnt any evidence of the laptop having  been dropped. She also 
couldnt account for why the technician  had found  her laptop had been working on 
9 October.
Aviva say that Ms E has acted dishonestly  in relation to her claim.  Taking  everything into 
consideration, I dont  think they are being  unreasonable in reaching that conclusion. So I 
dont think it is unfair  for them to rely on the policy term quoted above to decline the claim 
and cancel the policy. As I think the policy term has been fairly applied, I have no basis  upon  
which to ask Aviva to remove information  about Ms E from any shared  fraud  databases. 
I invited both Aviva and Ms E to respond  with any further comments  or evidence for my 
consideration. Aviva responded  and said they had nothing further  to add. Ms E responded 
and reiterated  her position. She insists she hasnt  acted dishonestly.  She also says that 
Avivas report  is incorrect  as she took the laptop to an independent technician who was 
unable to establish the last date of use as it wouldnt power on.  
Now both parties have  had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms E says that the service she received  during her first phone call to Aviva was poor.  Whilst 
I accept this call between  Ms E and Aviva didnt go well, steps  were  taken towards  arranging  
for a technician to examine the laptop  later the same day, during the second  call. So I dont  
think that this makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
I also accept that Ms E was told by a technician that he wasnt able to establish the date the 
laptop was last used, due to water damage. But Im more persuaded by the report from 
Ref: DRN12863433Avivas technician who was able to establish this, due to the diagnostic equipment used.  Ive 
seen the relevant parts of this report and I think its reasonable for Aviva to rely upon it to 
inform the decisions  theyve made  about Ms Es claim. 
So looking  at everything as a whole, Im not persuaded  to change from my provisional 
findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1286343