K822xcomplaint
Mr C is unhappy with the advice he received from Anthony  Feeney  Financial  Services  
(AFFS) to transfer his existing personal pension plans  into a self-invested  personal pension 
(SIPP). The reason  for making  the transfer was to allow  Mr C to invest  in store pods through 
Store First. He says at the time of the transfer the risks were never fully or properly 
explained to him. Mr Cs complaint is made,  on his behalf, by his representative.  
background 
During 2013, Mr C was put in touch with AFFS by an unregulated third party.  It seems  the 
third party had told him about  investing his pensions in store pods. So he spoke to AFFS 
about this. An adviser from AFFS carried out a review of his circumstances.  It then advised  
Mr C to transfer his existing personal pension plans to a SIPP. This was so he could then 
invest in store pods,  an unregulated investment. 
Mr Cs two existing pensions had a transfer  value  of just over £25,000. These were 
transferred to the SIPP at the end of 2013/beginning  of 2014. It seems £18,750 was then 
invested in store pods. In March 2014 AFFS then advised Mr C to make  a further investment 
of over £5,000  in a Nucleus portfolio. In early  May 2014 Mr C confirmed he wanted to go 
ahead with this investment.  But its not clear if this actually took place. Either  way, this 
doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. The store pods now appear to be illiquid. Mr C 
is worried hes lost the value of his investment. 
So in December 2016 Mr C complained,  via his representative, to AFFS about the advice 
hed received. In brief,  he said: the advice from AFFS hadnt followed the relevant 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) regulations; AFFS had tried to restrict the advice  it had 
given; the higher charges  associated with a SIPP were reason enough for making the 
transfer unsuitable; the fact find carried out by AFFS  was inadequate;  and, his attitude to risk 
was wrongly recorded as adventurous.  So Mr C wants  compensation for the money he says 
hes lost. 
AFFS, via its original  representative, rejected the complaint. Again in brief, it said: the 
transfer was recommended so Mr C could invest his pension  assets in a SIPP, and so he 
could access his tax free lump sum; Mr C expressly  didnt ask for advice about the suitability 
of store  pods; he expressly stated he understood the additional risks associated with this 
type of investment; and, he ignored the warnings given by AFFS about the investment, but 
still chose to go ahead with it. This meant  Mr C exposed himself  to the detriment hes now 
complaining about  its not been  caused  by the advice  given  by AFFS. 
AFFS also argued that the store pods investment wasnt a specified investment or a 
designated investment. This meant no investment advice  was provided to Mr C to make the 
investment  and in turn, the relevant FCA regulations didnt apply  to store  pods. AFFS said 
that even if the FCA regulations did apply, it had acted consistently with them.  
Mr C wasnt happy with this response. So he brought it to our service. Mr C said he wanted 
to be put back  in the position he would now be in if he hadnt made the transfer.  One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. He spoke  to both Mr C, and to the unregulated  third party  who 
introduced him to AFFS. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld.  
In summary,  he said: the advice to transfer  to the SIPP wasnt  suitable;  it was inappropriate 
not to consider the suitability of the store pods investment  when providing  the advice to 
switch; AFFS  knew Mr C was intending  to invest in store  pods; it should  have  known store 
Ref: DRN12884752pods wasnt a suitable investment for him  so it shouldnt  have advised him to transfer to 
the SIPP; AFFS should have done  more to assess Mr Cs attitude to risk and his capacity for 
loss; Mr Cs attitude to risk was more  likely  to be no more than moderate rather than 
adventurous; and, suitable advice would have been not to invest in store pods.  The 
adjudicator then set out what AFFS needed to do to compensate Mr C. 
Mr C accepted the adjudicators view. No response  was received from AFFS or any of its 
representatives. Due to this, the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
Ill explain  why. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  and in my own 
words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point  made by the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here:  
was AFFS advice to Mr C to transfer  his existing pensions to a SIPP  suitable?  
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome. 
Ill now turn to the matter of our jurisdiction. In general terms, the original representative for 
AFFS argued that the store  pods investment wasnt either a specified investment or a 
designated investment. AFFS also sent us a legal opinion  that store pods arent  an 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS).  Although AFFS hasnt explicitly  
questioned our jurisdiction  to look at this complaint, Ive seen arguments  made  in similar  
circumstances that as store pods arent an UCIS,  any advice to invest in them isnt an 
activity covered by our service. 
For completeness, and the avoidance of doubt,  the advice to invest  in store pods isnt the 
activity Im looking  at. Im looking at the advice Mr C was given to open a SIPP. That is a 
regulated activity. It doesnt matter whether or not the store pods investment was either a 
specified investment  or a designated investment or an UCIS. 
The rules  that AFFS had to follow are set out in the regulators handbook. The advice given  
to Mr C needed to take into account  the relevant rules. This is irrespective of whether the 
store pods investment was or wasnt a regulated product. The regulations required the 
advice given to Mr C to be suitable. To do that, AFFS had to get enough information about  
his circumstances.  
AFFS completed a fact find for Mr C. This was signed by him in October 2013. It recorded 
some of his personal  circumstances. But not much detail at all was included. No outgoings 
were listed.  There  was no mention  of Mr C having  any assets, savings or other investments 
other than his existing  pension  plans.  The fact find did state he had a dependant  adult son. 
Im not satisfied AFFS could adequately assess Mr Cs needs based on such  limited  
information. 
Ref: DRN12884753The fact find said that Mr Cs existing  pension plans were an insignificant  part of his overall 
financial wealth. But its not clear at all how this conclusion was arrived at. As Ive just said, 
theres no record of him having any other  assets,  savings or investments. 
The fact find listed five levels of risk under a section titled risk and reward.  These  ranged  
from very cautious to speculative.  The fourth box adventurous was ticked. This attitude  
to risk was explained as: 
You prefer to invest in more specialised stock-market  linked investments, in return for the 
potential for increased  capital growth.  Again, investment values  will fluctuate according  to 
market conditions, however, these  fluctuations  will be more pronounced.
Underneath this is a hand written note:
I am willing to take more risk to maximise  potential income  but based on investment I am 
controlling. I feel ownership of an asset  reduces the risk of losses.
The fact find also had the following box ticked:
I am an infrequent investor. However,  I have a reasonable working  knowledge and 
understanding of investment markets and the relationship between risk and reward  in those  
markets. 
Theres no detail on how Mr Cs attitude to risk was assessed. The fact find doesnt really  
ask any questions to help assess his attitude  to risk, other than actually asking him to 
confirm what that attitude was. Its a similar situation  regarding how AFFS assessed his 
previous investment experience. 
Mr C told our adjudicator that he didnt  even know who AFFS was until he made  this 
complaint. He says all the information and paperwork went  through the unregulated third 
party. 
The available evidence points to him having very limited investment knowledge, if any at all. 
Mr C certainly  doesnt seem to have  invested  in high risk speculative products before. Other 
than his existing  pensions, theres  nothing  to show he had any other investments 
whatsoever. He also told the adjudicator that he wanted low risk and low charges - he 
thought investing in store pods was low risk, and thats also what he was told. So I dont 
think I can rely on the fact find recording his attitude to risk as adventurous.  
Similarly, given the apparent lack of any other investments  other  than his existing  pensions  
- I also dont  think I can rely on Mr C having a reasonable working knowledge and 
understanding of those  markets. He told our adjudicator hed never heard of store pods,  
never had anything to do with pensions, and the idea had come from the unregulated third 
party. Mr C also said hed never  previously  invested in unregulated or alternative 
investments. 
Given Mr Cs lack of investment experience and understanding, Im satisfied he was relying  
on AFFS to give him suitable advice.  Whatever  his actual attitude to risk was, it was also 
important for AFFS to look at Mr Cs capacity to take that risk. I can see the fact find said he 
was self-employed  with a yearly income  of around £12,000. It also stated that business was 
slow, so Mr C was looking for a part-time  job to increase his income. 
Ref: DRN12884754As Ive said above,  the fact find states  Mr Cs existing pensions  were an insignificant  
proportion of his financial wealth. But Im not satisfied this was a realistic  record of his 
situation. With Mr Cs family commitments, along with his modest  income, apparent lack of 
any other savings or investments, and his need to look for a part time job to boost his 
income, I think its likely  that his existing pensions would have been a very significant  part of 
his financial wealth. So Mr C couldnt afford for his investment to fall in value, or be lost 
completely. 
Later in the fact find, Mr C was asked if he was planning to invest  in an unregulated or 
alternative investment.  The answer  Store First - £18,750 was given. The handwritten note 
at the bottom  of this section stated: 
Im attracted to the fact that it involves direct  purchase of asset  [sic]. I also like the 2 year 
income guarantee and I feel the storage/commercial  market  is less volatile than 
stocks/shares.
But again,  its not clear to me how this position  was arrived it. Mr C wasnt  an experienced 
investor and had very little, if any, knowledge  of the storage and commercial property 
market. So Im not satisfied that I can rely on the accuracy of this statement. 
AFFS then issued a financial planning report.  Ive assumed this was provided to Mr C after 
the fact find was completed. The copy Ive seen isnt signed or dated. It said Mr C especially 
liked the control that a SIPP would give by allowing him to take a more active  role in 
choosing what he deemed  were suitable  investments  rather  than the traditional  funds in his 
existing plans. 
The report  also stated that Mr C didnt  want to take any tax free cash from his pension fund 
as he wanted  to maximise  the income from his pension. This directly contradicts AFFS 
response to the complaint which said the transfer to the SIPP was recommended so Mr C 
could invest his pension  assets and access 25% tax free cash. 
The investment strategy section of the report said Mr C sought advice from AFFS about the 
intention of investing in commercial property,  store pods in particular. It said he hadnt  
sought advice  about the suitability of this investment and had stated he understood the 
additional risks associated with such an investment. But Im not satisfied  this is an accurate 
reflection of Mr Cs position  given  his lack of investment  experience, particularly in the 
storage and commercial  property market. 
Even after the risks had been explained to Mr C, given  his lack of investment knowledge, Im 
not satisfied he would  have had a good  enough understanding  of the risks to adequately 
judge the suitability of the store pods investment. Mr C would have been heavily reliant on 
AFFS. 
In any event, the report then went on to consider the proposed store  pods investment. It said 
AFFS had done  research to familiarise itself with the investment. It listed  some of the risks 
involved. This included investing in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large 
part of Mr Cs pension assets  bringing considerable risk. 
This section  of the report ended by saying  in bold type  that Mr Cs fund shouldnt  be 
placed in one asset class.  Instead, it should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a 
number of asset classes. But at the time,  the report didnt make  any recommendation of 
alternative investments  that could be used. 
Ref: DRN12884755I can see that in March 2014, a few months after the transfer to the SIPP and the investment  
in store  pods, AFFS did contact Mr C about another investment. It recommended that he 
should make  an additional  investment in a Nucleus portfolio. It seems that Mr C agreed  to 
this in May 2014.The amount to be invested  was over £5,000. As Ive already said,  its not 
clear if this investment  went  ahead. But this doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. 
While dealing with this complaint, Im very aware that the FCA, and its predecessor,  the 
Financial Services Authority, issued  alerts about  advising on pension  transfers.  These dealt 
with transfers to invest pension funds into unregulated products through  a SIPP.  One of 
these was published in early January 2013, some months before the advice given by AFFS. 
Another one was issued in April 2014. These  alerts  didnt change  or alter the regulations  in 
any way. Instead,  they simply re-stated  the principles that were already in place when AFFS 
advised Mr C. 
The 2013  alert clearly stated the regulators position  when it said: 
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating . 
Im satisfied it wasnt possible  for AFFS to advise  Mr C on the suitability  of the SIPP  without 
also considering  how he planned to invest. Its very clear  to me that AFFS knew all along  
that Mr C intended  to invest in store pods. With this in mind, I dont think it was suitable to 
advise Mr C to transfer  his existing pensions into a SIPP to allow him to make  this 
investment. 
AFFS did set out some  risks of investing  in store  pods in the suitability report. These were: 
Investment in a single undertaking  or having one investment as a large part of a 
schemes assets brings considerable risk. 
The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are 
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would 
appear to provide  a guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing  the property, 
however after the initial period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of 
return. 
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
un-occupancy, surplus funds  may have to be used up to cover  the annual  SIPP  fees,  
service charge, buildings insurance and electricity rent in addition  to the nominal 
ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions to the 
scheme if there are insufficient funds available to cover  the fees.  
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity. 
Ref: DRN12884756 The investment comes with a buy back guarantee  which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company. 
As Ive already  said, the report went on to say I recommend that your fund  is not placed 
within one asset class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across a number 
of asset classes. But I dont think this goes  far enough. There  was no warning to Mr C that 
all of his investment was potentially  at risk. Mr C told us he thought there  was no likelihood  
whatsoever that he might lose his money.  With his lack of investment  experience,  Im not 
satisfied he realised the extent of the risk he was taking  with his existing pension.  AFFS 
should have been much clearer  in its warnings to him. 
The store pods investment was unregulated. It was a specialised, non-mainstream  type of 
investment. I think it was also a high risk investment that wasnt suitable for somebody  with 
Mr Cs low capacity  for loss. AFFS identified this type of investment as inherently illiquid.  The 
available evidence doesnt show me that Mr C was fully aware of the risks involved in 
investing in store pods. Im satisfied the investment wasnt suitable for him  and thats what 
AFFS should have  told him. 
Im satisfied that given  a realistic assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk as balanced or 
moderate, his existing pensions would have  been suitable for his needs. I think suitable 
advice should  have been not to invest in store pods.  If that advice had been given, I dont 
see any reason why Mr C would have transferred his existing pensions  to the SIPP.  There  
would have simply been no need for the SIPP. So the advice  to open a SIPP was unsuitable 
for Mr Cs circumstances. 
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr C into the position he would  probably now be in if he had been given 
suitable advice.  I think Mr C would  have kept his existing pensions. 
AFFS should establish the notional  current transfer value of Mr Cs previous pension plans, 
assuming they hadnt been  transferred. The current transfer value of the SIPP investments, 
including any cash held in the SIPP bank account, should be compared to the current 
notional value of Mr Cs previous pension plans.  
If there are any difficulties getting  the notional valuations, then the FTSE UK Private Investor  
Income Total Return Index should be used. Thats a reasonable  proxy  for the kind of return  
that could have been achieved if suitable  funds had been chosen.  
If theres a loss, AFFS should  ideally pay an amount into Mr Cs pension plan to increase  its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.  
I think its unlikely that AFFS will be able to pay the compensation into Mr Cs pension plan. 
If thats the case, it should pay the amount  direct  to him. But if it had been possible to pay 
into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable income when Mr C takes the benefits.  So the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. 
Ref: DRN12884757The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Cs marginal rate of tax in retirement.  I 
think hes likely to be a basic rate tax payer in retirement. The reduction should  equal the 
current basic rate of tax. But, as Mr C would  have been able to take a tax free lump sum,  the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
Since the store pods investment is now illiquid  it cant readily be sold on the open market   
its value should  be treated  as nil. The resultant sum represents the redress due from AFFS 
to Mr C. AFFS can then arrange to take ownership of the investment. If thats not possible, 
then Mr C can sign an undertaking that he will pay AFFS any future disbursements  he may 
get from the store pods investment. That undertaking must  allow  for any tax and charges 
that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt from the SIPP.  AFFS will need to meet  any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
I think its very likely  Mr C will have  to maintain the SIPP for a period  of time as the store 
pods investment cant be sold. This will stop the SIPP  from being  closed. If AFFS is unable 
to buy the store pods investment from the SIPP provider, it should  pay Mr C five years worth  
of SIPP  fees to compensate him for these costs.  
In addition, AFFS should pay Mr C £250  for the disruption caused to his retirement  planning. 
This is around the amount  our service typically awards in these situations.  
AFFS should also provide  details of the compensation calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple  
format. 
Finally, simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross a year from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr C how much  has been  taken  
off. AFFS should give Mr C a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Anthony Feeney Financial Services should 
calculate the loss and pay compensation to Mr C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1288475