K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with how Lloyds Bank PLC handled a chargeback request on his behalf 
and that he hasnt received a refund of his money. 
background
Mr M made two payments for a cruise package from his Club Lloyds Premier Current 
Account; £1,400  on 22 July and £9,570 on 12 September 2016.
After the holiday,  Mr M had several  concerns about  the land based  and tour elements of the 
holiday. The cruise company  provided  Mr M with £1,000 compensation and a further £500 in 
vouchers which  it said it was also willing to offer as cash.
Mr M contacted Lloyds for a refund, asking it to raise  a chargeback  for his holiday. Lloyds 
initially said it couldnt do so under  the reasons given (for a chargeback)  as hed been on the 
holiday. Mr M got a representative involved, Ms L, who had also been on the holiday  and 
separately raised a chargeback through Lloyds.
Lloyds then gathered more  information and evidence and raised a chargeback. In addition  to 
temporarily refunding  the disputed payments, it also credited Mr Ms account £178.15 in 
interest and £250  compensation for the customer  service  provided up to that point.
The merchant defended the chargeback and so it was declined. Lloyds re-debited Mr Ms 
account, although it didnt re-debit the interest. 
Ms L said Lloyds should have  taken  the chargeback through  an arbitration process. Lloyds 
said that it doesnt think Mr Ms claim wouldve been successful at arbitration. Ms L says that 
Lloyds didnt put forward a strong enough case and that she thinks  it wouldve been 
successful if it had.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint; he thought the mistakes  Lloyds had made  
hadnt affected the outcome of the chargeback. And he thought the compensation already 
paid was fair. He added that it was Lloyds  (not Mr Ms) decision whether or not to pursue  
arbitration and that he didnt think it had acted unreasonably in not doing so.
Ms L (on behalf of Mr M) didnt agree  she was confident that if Lloyds had provided calls 
which showed the holiday being misrepresented that the chargeback wouldve been 
successful. She also felt that the fact that the merchant  had provided compensation was in 
effect an admission of liability, especially as it had offered  a further  £1,000 directly.
The matters  been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity,  this decision is only about  how Lloyds handled Mr Ms request for a chargeback   
its not about whether Mr Ms holiday was as described to him.
Ref: DRN19122852There are several reasons for accepting  a request for a chargeback. One is that goods  or 
services received arent as described.  Lloyds has acknowledged it should  have done more 
initially to help Mr M when  he asked for a chargeback using this reason. But once  it realised 
this, it did then work with Mr M to make the claim within the relevant timescale. And it pad Mr 
M £250  compensation for how it handled  his request up to that point.
For a business  to defend  the chargeback it must  explain why it thinks it has acted 
appropriately  that it did provide the services it promised. Lloyds received the defence, and 
at that point it could  have  asked for arbitration. That means the owner of the chargeback  
system itself would decide whether  or not the chargeback should succeed  or fail. In this case  
Lloyds says it thought there was little chance  of arbitration resulting in the chargeback being 
upheld in Mr Ms favour. So it didnt ask for arbitration.
The chargeback guidelines relevant to Lloyds say that the decision whether or not to use the 
arbitration service is one that Lloyds is entitled  to make. So its not something this service  
can say Lloyds must do. However, we would  say that good practise is that the bank attempt 
arbitration if the evidence from the seller (that is the cruise company) isnt persuasive.  Lloyds 
took the decision that the defence submitted by the sellers lawyers was persuasive so it 
didnt use the arbitration route. 
I appreciate that Ms L feels strongly  that Lloyds should treat what the business  said in its 
defence as less persuasive  than Mr Ms recollections  but thats a judgement call Lloyds is 
entitled to make. And I havent seen anything that persuades me it made the wrong decision.
I appreciate that the cruise company has refunded Mr M part of the cost of his holiday in 
recognition that some  of it wasnt as he expected. But that doesnt  mean  Mr M would 
succeed in a chargeback request for the entire  value  of the holiday.
Mr M also raised a point about the information he was given about the timescales that 
applied to chargebacks.  Im satisfied Lloyds gave him correct information.  I appreciate  Mr M 
says someone else was given different timescales, but Im only looking at the particular 
circumstances of this complaint, so this point hasnt  affected my decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint, as Lloyds has already  compensated Mr M 
fairly for the mistakes it made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2018
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1912285