K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar) was irresponsible to lend her money.
background
Myjar provided four loans  to Mrs M. Heres a loan table showing further details:
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Max
Repayment
1 01/02/2017 29/11/2017 12 £925.00 £139.35
2 29/11/2017 26/09/2018 12 £1,575.00 £238.84
3 26/09/2018 23/01/2019 6 £725.00 £222.90
4 23/01/2019 Outstanding 6 £1,050.00 £324.12
Mrs M has paid back loans  1-3 but she hasnt  yet repaid loan 4. When she complained to us, 
Myjar froze  all the interest and charges on her account and put the loan on hold whilst we 
completed our investigation.  
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mrs Ms complaint. She thought  Myjar shouldnt  have provided 
loan 3 or loan 4 to Mrs M. Our adjudicator  set out the steps she said Myjar should do to put 
things right.  
Myjar disagreed and mainly said that its checks were proportionate and our adjudicators 
view lacked reasoning  and detail. So the complaint  comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN19607482the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mrs M could sustainably  repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments,  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
Myjar has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mrs M. It asked her for details of 
her income and normal expenditure. And Myjar carried out checks  on Mrs Ms credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Myjar to give Mrs M loans 1 and 2 on the 
basis of the information she gave about  her income  and outgoings. It was early in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Myjar to agree to lend. 
As Mrs M hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to the 
first two loans, I dont think that I need  to say more about them.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Mrs M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Myjar should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Myjar  should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ms case,  like the adjudicator, I think  that this point 
was reached by loan 3. I say this because:
at this point Myjar  ought to have realised Mrs M was not managing  to repay  her loans  
sustainably. Mrs M had taken  out loan 3 the same day that she repaid  loan 2  and 
shed now been borrowing  continuously  from Myjar for almost 20 months  
so when she asked  for loan 3, I think Myjar ought to have known that Mrs M wasnt  
likely to be borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an 
ongoing need
Ref: DRN19607483Mrs M wasnt making any inroads  into the amount she owed Myjar and I think  Myjar 
ought to have realised it was likely  that Mrs M was having  to borrow further  to cover 
the hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her finances  each  time and that 
Mrs Ms indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably (and this seems to be borne out 
by the fact that she next borrowed a bigger loan  and she wasnt able to repay this)
Ive taken into account that Myjar  says that a pattern  of lending cannot reliably be 
established after a lending history of just 2 loans. But this doesnt  change my overall view. 
I say this because  I think  that Mrs M lost out when Myjar continued to provide borrowing 
from loan 3 onwards  because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ms indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time  and she paid a lot of interest  to service this debt
the length of time over which Mrs M borrowed was likely to have negative 
implications on Mrs Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint  about loans 3 and 4.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs M towards interest, fees 
and charges on loan 3, not including anything already  refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mrs M which  
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs M originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)  Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on loan 4, and treat 
any repayments made by Mrs M as though  they had been repayments of the 
principal. If this results in Mrs M having made overpayments then this surplus 
should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is 
settled. 
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and 
B should  be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 4. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should  be paid to Mrs M. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Myjar should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mrs M.
E) The overall pattern  of Mrs Ms borrowing by loans 3 and 4 means any information  
recorded about them is adverse, so Myjar should remove  these loans entirely from 
Mrs Ms credit file. If Myjar has sold any of the debt it should  ask the debt purchaser  
to do the same. There is no need  to remove any outstanding loan from Mrs Ms 
credit file until it is repaid,  but Myjar should  still remove any adverse information  
recorded about this loan.
Ref: DRN19607484 HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Ms complaint about  loans 3 and 4. 
MYJAR Limited should put things right for Mrs M as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1960748