K821x#15complaint
Ms G says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Ms G took out in 1999.  It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Gs case.  
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Ms G, so it didnt have to check  it was right for her. But 
it did have to give her information about the PPI that was clear,  fair, and not misleading,  so 
she could decide  for herself whether it was right for her.
The policy excluded claims resulting from pre-existing medical  conditions,  and Ms G had 
such a condition which wouldnt have been covered. So she couldnt have claimed on the 
policy for everything she mightve expected  to be able to.
I think this wouldve mattered to Ms G. Her condition has no cure and only gets progressively 
worse, and it had the potential to seriously  affect her ability to work or to stop her from being 
able to do her job altogether. So I think  Ms G wouldve been concerned about this at the 
sale. But under  the policys  terms, she couldnt claim for any time off because  of her 
condition or any related  issues  it caused.
I cant see that FICL gave  Ms G clear enough  information about this exclusion at the time of 
the sale. If it had, then I think its most likely  she would not have bought  the policy. So I think 
Ms G has probably lost out because of the flaws in the sale.
putting things right
FICL should put Ms G in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms G would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN19814072FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms G owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms G made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, FICL can take off any refund Ms G 
has already received for the commission part of this PPI policy,  so that she does not get 
refunded the same  thing twice.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms G would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% simple  a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms G would have owed each month without  PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms G paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms G 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year.
D.FICL should tell Ms G what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Ms G a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1981407