K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about the additional premium Zurich  Insurance PLC requested from him 
after hed taken  out a van insurance policy with it. He also complains that it took the payment 
against his express  wishes. 
My references to Zurich  include the agent it used  to collect premiums on its behalf.  
background
Mr P is self-employed. He insured his new vehicle, which is classed as a commercial 
vehicle, with Zurich.  He paid the full annual premium up front.
Around two months  after hed taken  out his policy Zurich said that Mr P owed it an additional 
premium of £271.50 (to include  a £35 administration fee). It said this was because  Mr Ps 
previous insurer had told it that his no claims discount (NCD)  had been reduced  due to a 
claim under that policy. Zurich said it would collect the additional premium from his payment 
card, being  the one it held for him in its records. 
Mr P emailed Zurich saying he didnt agree he owed the extra  money. He pointed  out Zurich  
had told him his proof of NCD had been accepted.  He told it not to collect the money through 
his payment card. But Zurich took the payment anyway.
In response to Mr Ps complaint Zurich  said it had been entitled to take the additional 
premium. It agreed Mr P hadnt deliberately misled it about his NCD, but said he had made a 
mistake about how much  his NCD would  be affected  by a claim hed made after his previous 
insurer sent out the policy renewal  papers. Zurich accepted Mr P had asked it not to collect 
the payment from his card,  and it offered to refund to him the £35 administration fee. Mr P 
didnt accept this and came to us.
Our adjudicator found that Mr P hadnt taken  care during the application process  when 
Zurich had clearly asked him about his NCD. She thought he should have been  aware  that 
the claim after his policy  renewal would affect  his NCD. But she didnt think Zurich  had been 
entitled to take the additional premium,  under  the relevant legislation.  Rather,  it should  have  
explained to Mr P his options, including cancelling the policy.  So she said the fair outcome 
was for Zurich to refund the additional premium  of £271.50, with interest.  She also thought  
Zurich should  pay Mr P £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience because it took 
the payment against his wishes. 
Zurich agreed to pay the £100 compensation, but said it would pay this only if it didnt also 
have to refund the additional premium.  So the complaints come  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, I need to take into account 
relevant law and regulations, regulators  rules,  guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the time.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, I uphold this complaint. I think the settlement 
proposed by our adjudicator is a fair one. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN17535712Mr Ps policy  is a commercial van policy, which means its a non-consumer  insurance  
contract. The relevant law here is the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). As our adjudicator  
explained the Act imposes on the insured  person - and here thats Mr P - a duty of fair 
presentation. This means:
(a)disclosure  of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to know,  
or
(b)failing  that, disclosure which gives the insurer insufficient information to put a prudent 
insurer on notice that it needs to make  further  enquiries for the purpose  of revealing 
those material circumstances.
There are some exceptions to the above duties, but they arent relevant in this case. 
The Act says that if the insured person has breached their duty of fair presentation, and this 
had an effect on the policy, the way the insurer  can respond depends on whether the breach 
was careless or deliberate or reckless. 
In this case, Zurich  doesnt suggest  that Mr P deliberately or recklessly failed to tell it about 
the possible impact of the October 2016 accident  on his NCD. And Mr P has explained that 
hed genuinely  not realised that his NCD would reduce  to three  years, which is what  later 
happened. 
I understand that Mr P didnt realise the actual  number  of years reduction  in NCD. But 
I agree  with our adjudicator that he was careless  in failing to disclose to Zurich that the 
accident might affect his declared NCD. So I think Mr P did carelessly breach his duty of fair 
presentation.
Section 8 of the Act says the insurer has a remedy  against  the insured person  for a 
qualifying breach  of the duty of fair presentation. A qualifying breach is one where,  in 
summary, the insurer can show that if the insured person had told it about  the material  
information the insurer wouldnt have entered into the insurance contract (the policy) at all, or 
would have done so only on different terms. 
In this case, Zurich  says that if it had known  Mr Ps NCD had been  reduced to three years at 
the time he took out the policy  it would have charged a higher premium than the one it 
actually charged  him. So it would have  entered into the policy on different terms. The 
amount it took from his bank card was the difference in the amount it actually charged him 
and the amount it says it would have charged him (together with the £35 administration  fee). 
The remedies available to the insurer are set out in Schedule 1 of the Act. And by remedies 
I mean  the steps  the insurer can take when it finds out about a breach  of the duty of fair 
presentation. 
Under Schedule  1 an insurers  remedies are based on what it would have done had the 
insured person taken reasonable care not to breach their duty of fair presentation. Where, as 
here, the insurer would  have  charged an additional  premium then the insurer  can 
proportionately reduce  the amount it would pay in the event  of a claim. 
But here Mr P hadnt made a claim under the Zurich policy. Zurich wasnt entitled to take the 
additional premium  from his card. This wasnt  a remedy provided  for under the Act. 
Ref: DRN17535713Mr P has explained that he would have  gone  to another insurer  had he been given the 
chance. But as Zurich just took the money from his payment card he lost that chance  to go 
elsewhere. It didnt act fairly. 
Zurich accepts it made a mistake in collecting the money from the payment card, even 
though it had told him that it could do that. It missed his email asking him not to take the 
payment. And Zurichs argument is that Mr P also made a mistake  in the number of years 
NCD he held. I see Zurichs point but I dont think it could fairly just collect the additional 
premium from Mr P. This caused him distress  and inconvenience. 
So I think a fair outcome  is for Zurich  to refund to Mr P the additional  premium  of £271.50, 
together with 8% simple interest as set out below. I agree it should compensate  him for 
distress and inconvenience and I assess £100 to be a fair and reasonable amount.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. I order Zurich  Insurance PLC to:
refund  to Mr P the amount of £271.50. It must  add interest* to that amount at the 
simple rate of 8% a year from the date it collected the payment from his payment 
card to the date it returns the money  to him; and
pay to Mr P £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Zurich must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr P 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay simple interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Zurich Insurance PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1753571