K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Quilter  Financial Services Ltd, previously trading as Intrinsic Financial Planning  
Ltd, didnt provide the advice services  hed paid for. He says the main result  of this was that 
too much  of his pension  fund was left in cash not earning a return.
background
Mr M was a client  of Ashwood  Law Wealth Management Ltd (ALWM).  It was an appointed 
representative (AR) of TenetConnect Limited  (TenetConnect) between  November 2010 and 
1 August 2016.  The company became an AR of Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) from 
2 August 2016.
As the principal firms, Quilter  and TenetConnect were responsible for any acts or omissions  
of ALWM, and so for simplicity Ill refer to them in this decision.
Mr Ms adviser had been dealing with his pension since  2007.  In November 2014 they met to 
discuss his arrangements. At the time he had a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with 
Standard Life valued at about £405k,  of which around £134k  was held in cash. He also had 
a personal pension with the same provider worth  around £57k.
Mr M and his wife were already retired at the time of the advice. He wanted to understand 
the best way to meet a shortfall between  his regular income and his planned expenditure. He 
was advised to transfer his personal  pension to his SIPP where he could access those 
benefits flexibly. Mr M accepted the recommendation.  
At the same time Mr M signed-up to ongoing  advisory services  from TenetConnect. This 
included periodic reviews  of his SIPP investments and, as appropriate, recommendations for 
any adjustments to meet  his ongoing objectives.  It was also to include at least one meeting a 
year to discuss matters. The annual fee equated to 0.25%  of the value  of his fund.
In 2017 Mr M raised a complaint  with Quilter. He said that he hadnt  received the services  
hed paid for. And he was concerned about  the lack of management of his pension  fund, for 
example he says he had an excess of his funds being held in cash  and so not working for 
him. He says hes suffered a financial loss as a result.
Quilter says it took responsibility  for Mr M as a client, through its AR, with effect  from 2 
August 2016.  It said his pension arrangements, including  the underpinning investment 
strategy, had been agreed  in 2014. And that this included holding  significant cash in his 
account to cover future projected withdrawals  in addition  to a target of 20% cash. It said that 
given his changing income requirements in 2015,  he couldve even been left in a position  
after a couple  of years  with too little of his funds in cash.
Quilter did though concede that its AR hadnt provided Mr M with ongoing servicing of his 
drawdown pension  as previously agreed, and as paid for. So, it offered to refund the fees 
hed incurred from when  it took on responsibility until he transferred to another arrangement.  
It also offered him £250 in recognition of the trouble and upset it had caused.
The adjudicator upheld Mr Ms case. Quilter  disagreed with his view.  So, Mr Ms complaint 
has been passed to me for review.  I issued my provisional decision in October. Ive received 
a response from Mr M and where  the matters  he raised are material, Ill address these in this 
final decision.
Ref: DRN13416862My consideration of Mr Ms case against  Quilter  covers the period from 2 August 2016  until 
he transferred his advice  and pension arrangements  to alternative providers, which I 
understand happened sometime in October 2017. The period prior to this is the responsibility  
of TenetConnect  and is being dealt with as a separate complaint.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain 
why.
My starting point is the financial report Quilters AR produced for Mr M in November 2014, 
when it was part of a different network.  It summarised his circumstances. He was married 
with no financial dependents. He and his wife had been retired  for several years. And both 
were in good health. Mr M was 71 and in receipt  of his state pension. His wifes  state  
pension wouldnt become payable for another seven years.
Mr M and his wife owned their home  and had no outstanding mortgage or loans. They had a 
regular income of around £13k a year and their needs had typically  exceeded  this by around 
£10k. Mr M had funded  this income shortfall  by taking phased tax-free cash (TFC) from his 
SIPP and by using  funds from his savings.
In 2014, Mr and Mrs M anticipated  that for at least the following year theyd have an ongoing  
need for a similar level of additional  funds  to supplement their regular income. They were 
planning to travel for 6 months  of the year and this was something they thought  they might 
do regularly in the future.
Mr M sought advice about how to best meet his income requirements. The funds in his SIPP  
of £405k were largely crystallised, but he could still access TFC from his personal pension,  
which at the time was valued at £57k.  He was advised to switch these funds to his SIPP  
where he could  access  the benefits  flexibly. Mr M agreed to the recommendation.
Another of Mr Ms recorded  objectives  was to reduce  his cash  holdings  because he thought  
his pension pot was too heavily weighted with cash. The ARs report records that after taking 
benefits from his plan, he wanted  to leave around 20% of funds in cash.
The purpose of pension drawdown is to provide an income  for the plan holder. So, some 
cash is needed to provide  for this in the near-term, as well as for fees. Generally, it might be 
reasonable to allow  for perhaps  a couple of years  of projected withdrawals. This ensures 
liquidity in the SIPP so that market volatility can be managed, for example by avoiding the 
need to sell investments  in adverse  conditions.
The remaining  pension funds should be invested accepting some  risk to grow and provide 
for later income. Afterall, someone in good health of Mr Ms age had a reasonable 
expectation of living into his mid-eighties, and beyond. And his wife, who couldve benefited 
from any residual funds  on his passing  was 13 years  his junior. So, getting  the balance  right 
between cash and investment wasnt of minor consequence.
In its last response to this Service about  Mr Ms complaint, Quilter said the following:
Ref: DRN13416863There is evidence on file (attached) that in September 2016  (when  we became responsible  
for the advice)  the client  had a fund of £457,057.09 with £157,152.73 in cash  (approx. 34%) 
of which  20% was the agreed level to be held ie £91,411 in addition to 3-4 years income  
the remainder of £65,741.73 based on the new strategy of £29k  pa withdrawals would have 
only lasted just over two years, not the 3-4 as originally agreed at outset.
Furthermore by 13 September 2017 the total cash holding  had fallen to 27%,  taking into 
account the client requiring 20% (£85,957.69  which we would  note is less than 3 years 
required income) to be retained  in cash the remaining  £30,923 would only cover his next 
years income withdrawal. Therefore on this basis the level of cash  retained within  the overall 
pension from 2016 was not excessive  based on his nearly tripling  his annual income 
withdrawals from those  originally intended  in 2014.
Theres no doubt that the level of cash held by Mr M does move in the right direction under 
Quilter. The problem is its argument,  which is presumably provided by its AR, is flawed.  I say 
this because we know from the financial report the AR delivered for Mr M in November 2014, 
his drawdown requirement was recorded  as around £10k a year. Given that the proposed  
investment strategy  indicated over £140,000 would be left in cash   that was equivalent to 
over a decade of income provision.
Further, TenetConnects internal review of its ARs financial  report  at the time is telling. Its 
compliance function wanted to understand more about what was happening with Mr Ms 
cash holding. It asked  the adviser:
You also mention the client  wishes to reduce the cash  element to 20%, does this form part 
of your investment  recommendation and what is the reasoning  for this?  Alternatively, if it is 
client driven please confirm what effect this will have  on the portfolio
The adviser responded as follows (bolding  is my emphasis):
The client and I discussed the investment proposition  [relating  to the transfer  of funds from 
his personal pension] and given the fact that there  is currently over 30% in cash in the 
receiving scheme already  - it was considered inappropriate to leave the cash at this 
level going  forward. However, given that the client is likely to take additional income (by 
way of drawdown in the near future,  then the client wished to maintain at least 20% cash 
to fund several years worth of potential income)
I think this explanation is consistent  with Mr Ms version of events  that he wanted to target 
a 20% cash holding, and that this wasnt in addition to his projected income requirements 
over the coming  years.
Its arguable that a 20% target for cash was itself inefficient given what was known  at that 
time about Mr Ms anticipated  drawdown over the coming period. While this target appears 
to have been his firm view, Id have  expected  the AR to have been probing, challenging and 
establishing why this was indeed suitable  for him. A matter  TenetConnects  compliance  team  
was clearly trying to elicit.
Ive given the AR the benefit of some doubt here.  I note developments a year later show Mr 
Ms income requirement increased significantly - it seems the need for short-term  flexibility 
mayve been in his mind.  So perhaps  the 20% cash target mayve been  reasonable. Its a 
shame we dont have  more information  though.
Ref: DRN13416864Mr M signed-up to ongoing advisory services  in November  2014. This included periodic 
reviews of his SIPP investments and, as appropriate, recommendations for any adjustments  
to meet  his ongoing objectives.  It also included at least one meeting a year to discuss  his 
situation. The annual  fee equated  to 0.25% of the value of his fund.
I note that when Mr M received his advice in November  2014 his Standard Life SIPP was 
paying interest on his cash  account  of 0.3% per annum. But his provider informed him 
shortly afterwards that from 1 January 2015  hed receive no interest.
In April 2015 following  receipt of information from Standard Life about  the value of his SIPP  
Mr M says he was amazed to find that rather than a reduced level of cash, his holding  had 
increased to over £200k, or more  than 42% of his funds. This had happened because  a 
Trustee Investment  Plan (TIP) had matured returning £67k into his SIPP  cash account.
Mr M says he initiated contact with his adviser to get the cash holding  matter addressed. The 
email exchanges  Ive seen are not particularly detailed, other  than confirming this was a 
matter, amongst others,  being  discussed  between parties.
The adviser made a file note following a discussion with Mr M on 7 May 2015. It recorded 
that he would be increasing his drawdown  of income  to fully utilise his basic  rate income tax 
allowance. In addition  to taking £29k a year,  its recorded that he still wanted to maintain 
20% cash in his pension (excluding  future  withdrawals) and that it was therefore agreed to 
leave cash at 42% of his SIPP value.
Mr M strongly refutes  this record  of events. He said his notes from the discussion were that 
£100k would  be considered for investment with £99k remaining in cash.
Ive no reason to doubt that the ARs contemporaneous note of events faithfully records what  
it had understood  from the discussions. Similarly, I think  what Mr M has told me is a genuine 
record of what he thought had been  agreed.
As weve seen from recollections of what happened in 2014,  the communications  between 
parties wasnt as effective as it shouldve been  to ensure a common  understanding. I think  
the AR bears  primary responsibility for this. Ill explain  why.
Its of note that one of the terms from Mr Ms client agreement that he shared with us said 
the following:
ACCOUNTING TO YOU - We will confirm to you in writing the basis  or our reason for 
recommending the transaction executed on your behalf.
So, as Ive concluded on the balance  of probabilities what was agreed in November 2014 i.e. 
to target a 20% cash  holding in Mr Ms SIPP, I wouldve  expected some documentation  
available from his adviser recording why he ended up with a different approach, as it is 
effectively suggesting.  What were his objectives and what  was its advice about whether this 
was an appropriate  course of action?
Further, I think deciding not to reinvest  the £67k cash  injected  into Mr Ms SIPP  account from 
the matured TIP warranted a more comprehensive  audit trail. As did the change in interest  
rate he was receiving  on his cash holding. Ive seen little commentary  about  these matters.
Ref: DRN13416865Mr Ms adviser doesnt seem to have been  providing  an ongoing servicing of his pension  
funds, as it was contracted to do. The maturing of one of his investments presumably didnt 
come as a surprise. Why did the funds  have to sit in cash until Mr Ms next annual review as 
suggested wouldve  been appropriate?  And why wasnt the adviser  talking to Mr M about the 
position with interest  on his cash  holding?
Mr M wasnt paying for ad hoc advice. TenetConnect  told me his fee paid for a yearly review. 
It thought it was unfair to say that advice shouldve been given to Mr M in mid-2015. It said 
this wouldnt have happened unless requested by the client and a further fee paid.
I understand the point TenetConnect made. But I think  it chose a narrow  interpretation of the 
service it held out to Mr M for the significant ongoing  advice fee he was paying.  Certainly,  
the information given to him suggested he could expect  something more extensive and 
flexible than one annual review.
Mr M and his adviser were in regular contact in 2015, for example there  were  exchanges in 
March, June and November that year. So, its difficult  to understand why the significant 
developments affecting his SIPP werent gripped.
Even if his adviser  had required  Mr M to pay an additional fee to provide  advice  and make  
necessary arrangements,  it shouldve made  that clear. It hasnt done enough in this case  to 
show me it was fulfilling its duty to act in its clients best interests using due care and skill.
Its not clear why Mr M needed to keep £200k in cash in 2015,  when even  being  cautious 
about liquidity  considerations, his total income requirements for the next three years 
wouldve been around £100k. As this wasnt in his best interests, Id have expected him to 
have been advised accordingly.  
Quilter assumed responsibility  for these  matters when it took on Mr Ms adviser  as one of its 
ARs in August 2016. But as we know, there  was never  any contact between the parties 
under its umbrella. The importance of regular reviews was set out in the financial report  the 
AR had previously provided to Mr M. The following extracts are typical  and I assume the 
same sentiment wouldve prevailed  under  the Quilter network as well:
The drawdown annual reviews deemed  necessary to ensure the continued suitability of a 
client remaining in drawdown, to monitor the performance of the fund and its ability  to 
achieve the critical yield and to ensure that changes in the clients situation are identified  and 
accommodated. The decline  of an annual review could have a detrimental impact  on a 
clients pension fund,  it is important to ensure a client understands the implications.
Given the investment nature  of drawdowns, it is important that the plan is regularly 
monitored to ensure  its continued ability to provide benefits in the format required by a client. 
Unlike the security of income  offered via a conventional annuity there is the risk of the fund 
depleting and not being able to meet a clients needs in retirement. For this reason annual  
monitoring is viewed as an integral part of the advice process.
Quilter didnt have any contact with Mr M, but it continued to take payment for services until 
Mr M transferred his adviser  and pension arrangements elsewhere  (I understand in October 
2017). Had those services  been provided  I think its more likely than not Quilter wouldve 
properly understood Mr Ms requirements  and further action wouldve been taken to reduce 
his exposure to cash.
Ref: DRN13416866Turning to Mr Ms wider approach to taking his pension benefits. If an investor is averse to 
risk then buying an annuity with the capital available, which would guarantee an income at a 
given level into the future,  is a good option.  But from the documents  Ive seen  Mr M didnt 
want to pursue that route. He was happy  to maintain  a drawdown pension  arrangement  and 
he was willing to accept  some investment risk.
I can see the AR and Mr M had previously discussed his risk appetite and agreed that he 
was a moderately cautious  investor. The definition of someone  with this outlook  was as 
follows:
In general  moderately  cautious investors  are uncomfortable taking risk with their 
investments, but would be willing  to do so to a limited extent. They realise that risky 
investments are likely  to be better for longer-term  returns. Moderately cautious investors 
typically prefer certain outcomes to gambles.  They can take a relatively long time to make up 
their mind  on financial matters and may suffer from regret when decisions turn out badly....
Given the size of Mr Ms pension pot, the potential  income that could be generated by it, his 
other assets,  his anticipated income  requirements  at that time and his risk outlook, Mr Ms 
capacity for loss was assessed as moderate.  This seems a reasonable assessment in the 
circumstances.
Mr M also raised the matter of the performance of some of the funds he held. Ive thought  
about this carefully.  But given  his portfolio of investments appears to have been a 
reasonable match for his risk appetite, Im not proposing any adjustments in that area.  Id 
simply be substituting an equivalent  generic benchmark of funds that equated to his risk 
appetite for what he had, with the possibility  he may be a bit better  or worse off.
putting things right
Ive thought carefully about what would be fair in the circumstances for Quilter  to take 
responsibility for, given  that the initial problems  here began with TenetConnect.
Id make the following observations. Quilter has told us it took on responsibility for Mr M from 
August 2016.  And I can see there was activity on his file in September  2016, and that this is 
when it started receiving fees for him. Im also sure that in appointing new ARs it will have 
its own processes of due diligence  to understand the book it was taking on.
Im mindful that in this case there was a single adviser throughout the period Mr M complains 
about. And there was also a single AR involved.  Although the AR moved  from 
TenetConnects network to Quilters, there shouldve been  continuity of service  as far as Mr 
M was concerned. And both networks must accept responsibility for the acts and omissions  
of its agents.
Mr Ms main  concern  spanned the period between December 2014 until October  2017  and 
was about the excess  cash holding in his SIPP, which Quilter failed to get to grips  with when 
it took on responsibility for its AR in August  2016.
As Im upholding this aspect of Mr Ms complaint, I require Quilter Financial Services Ltd to 
put matters right in the following way:
-Assuming a target for cash  holding in Mr Ms SIPP  of 20%,  it should  work out 
between 2 August  2016 until the point in October  2017 when  Mr M transferred his 
advice and pension  arrangements, what excess cash he held.
Ref: DRN13416867-For that excess cash, it should assume this wouldve  benefitted from the same 
average return enjoyed by Mr Ms residual portfolio over the same period.
-To this it should add 8% simple interest from the point Mr M transferred to another 
adviser, until it settles.
-It should pay the resulting sum into Mr Ms current pension  plan. This should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. It shouldnt pay the compensation 
into his pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
-If it is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension  plan,  Quilter  should pay 
the amount due direct to him. Had it been  possible to pay into his plan, it wouldve 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  This should 
be calculated using  Mr M's actual or expected marginal rate of tax.
-Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should  tell Mr M how 
much has been  taken off. It should  also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate  if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
-Quilter should provide  the details of the redress calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple  
format.
In addition, Quilter should  pay Mr M the £250  it had already offered him for the distress  and 
inconvenience it had caused by the things it got wrong.
my decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. So, I require Quilter 
Financial Services Ltd to put things right as Ive indicated  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 January 2021.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1341686