K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) gave him wrong information and caused 
delays when arranging  a refund from a credit card. 
background
Mr L held a credit card with Aqua and arranged a balance transfer for the funds he owed. A 
short time later he contacted Aqua  as he noticed  a £27 credit balance on his account.  During  
the call on 23 August 2018 Aqua  said the funds would need  to be returned  to the account 
theyd come from and asked Mr L to provide the details. Mr L gave Aqua his current  account 
details. 
The refund didnt go through and Mr L was told it needed to be applied to the credit  card the 
funds had been received  from. Mr L went on to complain. Aqua looked at what had 
happened and apologised to Mr L during a call on 1 September 2018.  Aqua credited Mr Ls 
account with £15 as a gesture of goodwill  but he didnt feel the offer was fair. 
Mr L asked the complaint  handler to listen to his call from 23 August 2018  and reconsider 
their offer. But Aqua didnt agree to increase its offer and Mr L referred his complaint to this 
service. 
An adjudicator looked at what  had happened  and said they thought  Aqua had dealt with the 
complaint fairly so didnt ask it to increase its offer. Mr L didnt agree and asked for his 
complaint to be appealed  to its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call on 23 August 2018 and to process the refund Aqua asked Mr L to 
provide the account details of where the funds  had come from. But Mr L gave Aqua his 
current account details  which  wasnt right as the funds had come from another  credit card he 
held. Mr L says that Aqua shouldve known hed provided incorrect  information because  it 
had details of where  the funds had come  from already. But that assumes the call handler he 
spoke with had that information to hand when  discussing the refund.  I think  if itd been  
immediately obvious  what account the funds had come from Aqua wouldnt have asked. 
But I appreciate  that Aqua  couldve done more to ensure Mr L gave it the correct response 
when it asked where to refund the credit balance. As a result,  Ive considered  whether  its 
offer of £15 is fair. 
Mr L says that the minimum figure for an offer of this nature  is normally around £50. But as a 
service we look at each complaint on its individual merits and make  a decision based on the 
impact of an issue on the consumer. The impact  here is that a refund of £27 took longer than 
expected to reach Mr L because Aqua had to clarify the account  details.  I appreciate Mr L 
feels Aqua  shouldve awarded a minimum of £50 but I havent been persuaded that the 
impact of the delay  was sufficient to increase the existing settlement. 
Ive carefully thought  about everything Mr Ls told us and Aqua concerning how the issue 
impacted him. Having  done so Im satisfied the £15 Aqua has paid is fair in all the 
circumstances. As a result, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
Ref: DRN19916352my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision 
before 19 March 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1991635