K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about Covea Insurance plc. He isnt happy  that it turned  down  a claim 
under his car insurance policy and voided  the policy (treated it as if it never existed).
background
Mr Cs car was stolen and he made a claim under his car insurance policy. Covea looked 
into the claim and validated the theft but didnt deal with the claim. It said that Mr C failed to 
tell them  about  a conviction. And had he have told them it wouldnt have insured him so it 
treated his policy as if it never existed.
So Mr C complained to Covea and then this service. Our adjudicator  looked  into things for 
Mr C and upheld his complaint. He was of the view that Covea hadnt asked Mr C a clear 
question about  his driving history so he didnt think that it had acted fairly. He asked it to 
reinstate the policy, settle the claim and pay £250  compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
As Covea  didnt agree the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Although I can understand why Covea has taken  the position  it did, as it says that Mr C 
didnt tell them about a speeding offence.  But under Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) provisions it has to show  that Mr C made  a qualifying 
misrepresentation to it. It must show it asked him a clear question and that he didnt take 
reasonable care when  he gave the wrong answer to it. And going on the evidence  before me 
I dont think it has.
I know that it wanted to know  about  Mr Cs driving history, particularly  whether  he had any 
speeding offences or fixed  penalty notices. But it didnt ask Mr C about  this. Ive listened  to 
the telephone call between Mr C and Coveas representative and he was only asked about 
previous convictions  during the call. And Mr C said that he didnt have  any previous 
convictions, which is correct.
So although  Covea wanted to know about  Mr Cs fixed penalty or speeding offences it didnt 
ask about this. Instead it asked about  convictions  and as Mr C wasnt convicted at court  in 
relation to any speeding offence he doesnt have  any, as such the correct answer was no. 
So, as it didnt ask Mr C a clear question about his driving history  (and only asked about 
convictions as opposed to speeding  offences or fixed  penalty notices)  I cant  say it has acted 
fairly in turning down his claim and voiding his policy. 
I know Covea says that it sent out documentation  outlining Mr Cs driving history which 
wasnt accurate. It says that Mr C shouldve  checked this. But this was based on the 
information gleaned from the telephone call outlined above which  he wouldve presumed 
was accurate anyway.  And Mr C says that his partner sent on the correct driving history by 
letter (confirmed in a statement to his solicitor) which  Covea says it didnt receive.  
Ref: DRN14578182But, in effect,  Mr C answered the question correctly so I cant say he has done  anything 
wrong. As such, I agree  that Covea should  settle  the claim and pay £250  compensation for 
the clear trouble and upset caused.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea 
Insurance plc to reinstate  the policy and pay the claim less any premium owed. And pay 
£250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1457818