K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (CFC) unfairly terminated her 
hire purchase agreement (HPA) when she was making  payments  under an agreed payment 
plan. She complains CFC said it would  repossess  the car even though  a court  order was 
needed.
background
Mrs O entered into a HPA with the business  in January 2017 to acquire a car. In August 
2018, she says that she agreed  a payment plan to cover her payments and a contribution 
towards the arrears  on her account. The first payment was due on 10 September 2018 but 
she says when she tried to pay there was an issue with the online payment service. She 
says she contacted customer services and got an email back asking her to confirm her 
details. She says she isnt able to call the business  as she works while the contact  centre is 
open. She made the payment on 18 September but then received a letter saying  her 
agreement had been terminated.
Mrs O says that CFC has made a number of errors including providing incorrect  service 
opening times on its letters. She says she has made  payments towards her agreement and 
shouldnt have been treated how she has. CFC now intends to repossess the car which 
Mrs O says it is not allowed to do without a court order. She says the actions of CFC have 
caused her distress and anxiety.
CFC says that it agreed payment  plans with Mrs O but these werent  maintained. Because of 
this it issued a notice of termination in September 2018. It says that it has no reports  of any 
issues with processing  payments  in September 2018 and that it had evidence of two 
declined payment attempted by Mrs O on 11 September 2018.
CFC accepted that Mrs O has paid more than a third of the total payments due. It says that 
she contacted  the third party collection company to confirm  she wouldnt consider 
surrendering the vehicle.  It says it would look to pursue  a Return of Goods order once 
Mrs Os complaint has been investigated.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that various payment plans had been 
set up but these werent maintained. He noted  Mrs Os comments about an issue with the 
online payment  in September 2018 but said there was no evidence that Mrs O contacted  the 
business at this time to make payment through an alternative route. Given the circumstances 
he didnt think the business had acted  unreasonably by starting repossession action. He 
noted that Mrs O had paid more than a third of the total amount due under the agreement 
and that the business  would apply for a Return  of Goods order. 
Mrs O didnt accept our adjudicators view and so her complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O entered into HPA with CFC in January 2017. She maintained  the payments due under 
the agreement  until September 2017.  She contacted CFC in October to explain why she 
Ref: DRN12026412couldnt make the payment due but said that future payments could be made. It was agreed  
her payment  would  be made on 13 November. However Mrs O then contacted  CFC to say 
she had suffered a bereavement. A payment amount was agreed  for 29 November with a 
review to be undertaken after this.
Following this, payment  plans were agreed for Mrs O to make her payments and to clear her 
arrears. I find that CFC acted  positively towards Mrs O at this time by setting up the plans. 
However Mrs O didnt  make the payments due under the plans and while  new plans were 
set up she again  didnt maintain these. While I can see that Mrs O did stay in contact with 
CFC at this time, given the arrears  on her account and the failed payment plans, I do not find 
the business acted unreasonably by taking further action. 
I have looked  through  the system notes provided  by CFC and can see that on 3 August 
2018, Mrs O called about her payments saying she couldnt afford the agreed amount. On 
this call the risk of her car been repossessed  is mentioned  and the notes also says that 
Mrs O is aware  of what could happen if the payment plan wasnt maintained. 
A lower payment amount  plan was agreed with the first payment due on 10 September  
2018. Mrs O says that she tried to make her payment but there  was an issue  with the online 
payment processing.  She has provided  a screenshot  although  this doesnt have the date on 
it. CFC says there were  not reported issues at this time and it has provided evidence  of two 
declined payments the following day.
As Mrs O had failed to maintain previous payment plans and had been made aware of what  
could happen  if this payment plan wasnt maintained I would have expected her to have tried 
to make payment  through a different route  in the event her online approach  failed. I do not 
have evidence to show that she contacted CFC at this time to make her payment. 
I can see Mrs O did make a payment later in September, however as this was after the 
required date I do not find that CFC did anything wrong by issuing a notice of termination.
Mrs O has said that CFC said her car would be collected when it didnt have the right to do 
this given the amount she had paid. Mrs O is right that as she had paid more than a third of 
the total amount due under her agreement the car couldnt be taken back against  her wishes  
unless there  is a court order. CFC has explained that in these situations it tries to discuss 
with the consumer the option of agreeing to return of the car before applying  for a Return of 
Goods Order due to the possible  costs  involved in this. I do not find this unreasonable.
Mrs O has also complained about  the wrong open hours being recorded on CFCs letters.  I 
can see why this was frustrating for Mrs O but I do not find that his had a material  impact.
Overall, while  I can understand  why Mrs O is upset  that CFC terminated her HPA and 
started repossession activity, given the arrears  on Mrs Os account and that she hadnt 
maintained the payment plans put in place, I do not find that I can say it has done anything  
wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Ref: DRN12026413Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1202641