K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Uncle Buck  Finances LLP was irresponsible to lend him money as he 
was borrowing from a number of payday  lenders at the same  time.
background
Mr C took out four payday loans with Uncle Buck  between June 2013 and March 2018. A 
summary of his loans  is below:
Loan 
numberDate taken Amount Date repaidNumber of 
repaymentsMax. 
monthly
repayment
1 18/06/2013 £400 18/06/2013 1 £540
2 27/06/2013 £340 28/06/2013 1 £459
3 16/01/2018 £600 05/03/2018 6 £178
4 09/03/2018 £600 outstanding 6 £188
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld.
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation so the complaint came to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  I was minded to uphold part of Mr Cs 
complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle 
Buck should  fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN14082772There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines  sustainable  as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
loan one and two
Before agreeing loans one and two, Uncle Buck recorded Mr Cs monthly  income to be 
£2,880 against declared expenses of £676. 
It was early on in Mr Cs lending relationship  so I considered that Uncle  Buck carried out 
proportionate checks. Based on the information  Uncle Buck held about  Mr C, it appeared 
that he could afford  to repay both loans.  So I wasnt going to uphold  Mr Cs complaint about  
loans one and two.
Loan three and four
This was where I was minded  to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Although there had been  a 
significant gap between Mr C repaying  loan two and taking out loan three, I considered  that 
Uncle Buck  should  have  been asking more questions than it did before agreeing  to lend.
Uncle Buck  gave us a copy of the credit  search  that it carried out when Mr C applied for loan 
three. The credit check referred to next payment  amounts  presumably for the month 
following loan three. These payments totalled  £1,770 but Mr C only declared about  £300 of 
monthly credit commitments. 
Mr C declared  monthly expenses of £2,337 against a monthly  income of £2,880. I thought 
Uncle Buck  had enough information to see that Mr C was likely to have little to no disposable 
income left to afford the repayments on loan three. Or at the very least  the results shouldve 
prompted Uncle Buck to carry  out further checks and ask about Mr Cs outstanding loans. 
If Uncle Buck had done this, it seemed likely  to me that it wouldve discovered Mr C owed 
money to a number of other short term lenders  at least four at the time. This meant Mr C 
couldnt sustainably  afford to take on more debt.
Ref: DRN14082773Mr C took out loan four with a few days of repaying loan three.  I couldnt  see that Mr Cs 
financial situation had improved so it followed that with better  checks; I thought loan four 
wouldve also appeared unaffordable.
I didnt consider that it was reasonable of Uncle Buck  to agree to lend loans three and four 
based on the information that it held or should have known  about Mr C. 
further submissions
Mr C accepts my provisional decision and hasnt asked me to consider any further 
information. 
Uncle Buck  doesnt  accept that the next payments figure of £1,770  is accurate as some of 
the accounts listed in the credit checks would have different  payment frequencies. 
Uncle Buck  says that it wouldve  been  disproportionate to expect it to carry out a full review 
of the circumstances behind each entry. 
Uncle Buck  says that as loan three is the start of a new chain of lending, it was reasonable 
to rely on the income and expenditure information  that Mr C provided. 
Uncle Buck  goes on to say that Mr Cs outstanding balance is £258.10. Uncle  Buck has 
offered to write off the outstanding balance and refund some  interest  and charges but it isnt 
clear which of loans  three or four that Uncle Buck is offering  to do something  about.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what Uncle  Buck says about the significant break in lending and I agree that this 
means its fair to treat loan three  as the start of a new chain. However, I dont think  this 
means that its reasonable of Uncle Buck to overlook the information it found  as part of its 
credit searches before agreeing loans three and four.
The point that I made  in my provisional  decision was that the information on the credit check  
should have at the very least prompted Uncle  Buck  to carry out further enquiries. And that if 
Uncle Buck  had done this, it wouldve found out about Mr Cs other  short term loans.
Uncle Buck  corrected a mistake that Id made in the original loan schedule  in my provisional 
decision. Uncle Buck pointed  out that Mr C repaid loan three in March 2018  not January 
2018. This means that Mr C took out loan four less than one week  after repaying loan three.  
I think this reinforces my view that Mr C was exhibiting signs of reliance on short term 
lending that shouldve prompted Uncle Buck to decline his loan application.  
Overall, I still consider that its fair to uphold Mr Cs complaint in line with my provisional 
decision. As Mr C has had the benefit  of the money  lent to him, it seems  fair to still allow 
Uncle Buck  to apply  the compensation against  any outstanding principal balance due on 
loan four.
Ref: DRN14082774to put things right,  Uncle Buck should:
refund  any interest and charges  that Mr C paid on loans three and four;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
remove any negative information  about loans three and four from Mr Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
Uncle Buck  intends  to apply the compensation to reduce any outstanding principal balance,  
it must  do so after deducting  tax.
If Mr C still owes  Uncle Buck  any of the principal  balance he borrowed on loan four, Uncle  
Buck may deduct this from the compensation that is due to him. But, to be clear, that 
outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but taking 
account of any repayments that Mr C has made on loan four as though they were applied 
against the principal sum borrowed.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I require 
Uncle Buck  Finances LLP to take the steps  outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1408277