K820x#14Complaint
Mr As unhappy with his dealings  with Barclays Bank UK PLC after he fell victim to a banking 
scam. Hes been reimbursed a nominal  amount  and says Barclays  should reimburse him for 
the remainder.
Background
Late on 10 April 2019, and again  moments later, Mr A authorised two separate online 
payments totalling  £3,600 to someone  he believed was selling a car. He contacted  Barclays 
on 16 April 2019 to confirm hed been  the victim of a scam. He hadnt received  the car and 
could no longer contact the seller. 
Barclays contacted  the beneficiary bank the same day to try and recover  Mr As funds. 
Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank eventually confirmed it could only recover  £2.60, which  
was paid to Mr A. Barclays informed Mr A that, as the remaining  funds  had been  used  by the 
scammer prior to Mr A notifying it of the scam, no more money could be recovered. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr A complained to us. Our adjudicator didnt recommend 
the complaint  be upheld  as they didnt think Barclays should have done more  to identify the 
payment as potentially  fraudulent in the circumstances.  And they felt Barclays  had done 
enough to try and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank. 
Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the case was passed to me to review  
afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
Ref: DRN18048562And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr A when he transferred £3,600  in total, or whether it should have done more than it 
did. 
Im very sorry to see that Mr A lost all but a small amount of this money.  But, having looked  
at the circumstances, I do think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in allowing  the money 
to leave Mr As account. And I think it took appropriate steps to try and recover funds from 
the beneficiary bank.  So, I dont believe it needs  to reimburse Mr A for the money he lost. Ill 
explain why.
Mr As accepted that he authorised the payments himself. Because of this, Barclays had an 
obligation to follow Mr As instructions. But there  are some situations  in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transfers.
Ive thought about this carefully.  In doing so, Ive looked at the statements for the account in 
the months leading up to the payment, and I dont think the type of payment or the amount 
was particularly unusual  or suspicious in comparison to the normal  activity on Mr As 
account. I gather the payments were for less than the set limit Mr A could pay in such 
transfers. Mr A says he may have tried to pay the full amount in one transaction but that was 
blocked by Barclays.  However, Ive seen no evidence to show that was the case.
I note Mr As argument that the other higher value transfers on the account involved him 
moving money into his own savings  account. But, in the circumstances, I remain  of the view 
that Barclays didnt  do anything wrong in not treating the payments as suspicious in the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN18048563Mr A contacted Barclays on 16 April 2019  when he became aware that hed been the victim 
of a scam   six days after authorising the first payment. Barclays  raised a scam complaint 
and contacted the beneficiary bank on the same day to request a return of the funds. 
Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank ultimately explained that almost none of the money 
remained. I dont  find that surprising given  scammers typically withdraw funds quickly  in 
this case I can see that almost all the money  was withdrawn or used by 12 April 2019. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest Barclays caused  Mr A to lose out in its attempts to try and recover 
Mr As funds.   
In this case, while I appreciate Mr As been  the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Barclays 
decision not to refund him in this instance  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
say this because  it followed Mr As instructions to make the transfers and I havent seen any 
reason why it shouldnt  have  done this. And I think it took appropriate steps to try and 
recover the funds  once it was notified  of the scam.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1804856