K822xcomplaint
Mr D is unhappy that Thilina Sri Lanka UK Ltd (Thilina) failed to complete a transfer to an 
overseas bank account, hed instructed it to make. 
background 
Mr D made  a payment  of £25,000 through Thilina on 2 November 2018 and was told that the 
money should reach the intended account   which was abroad - within  four days. 
As funds  hadnt reached the intended account  by 7 November 2018, Mr D made the 
necessary enquiries.  He says he was told his money  had been  held in Thilinas bank 
account but everything should be sorted within the next few days.
On 12 November 2018, Mr D says he was told that Thilina was unable  to transfer the entire 
amount of £25,000  to the intended overseas account and he was asked to attend  its 
premises to collect £17,500  which he says he did the same day. He says he was told the 
remaining balance of £7,500 would be transferred the following day. That didnt happen.
Despite chasing  for updates and asking for the balance to be returned to him, Mr D says 
Thilina didnt transfer the money to the overseas account and nor did it pay the balance  back  
to him. Unhappy, he complained to us. 
Thilina hasnt responded to any of our requests for information. So, based on everything he 
had, our investigator upheld this complaint.  He concluded Thilina had failed to process the 
transfer in line with Mr Ds instructions and that it should refund the balance  of £7,500 to him 
together with interest - and pay £250 compensation for the trouble and upset.
We received no response from Thilina  so Mr Ds complaint has been passed  to me to look at 
everything afresh and make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive, Ive considered  whats most likely to have  
happened on the balance of probabilities, in light of the evidence and wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Mr D has sent a bank  statement  showing £25,000 was transferred from his account to 
Thilina on 2 November 2018. Hes also provided  us with a number of texts from 
November 2018.  He says these are between the person  who recommended  Thilinas 
services to him and one of its directors. The name  of one of the recipients is the same as 
one of the directors of Thilina so I accept what Mr D says about  that. 
Overall these texts support the chronology of events  that Mr D has described to us and show 
that Thilina was being chased  for the remaining balance of £7,500, which  it accepted was 
outstanding at the time.  
Mr D has told us the balance of £7,500 never  reached the overseas bank account. Weve 
attempted to contact  Thilina to find out what happened and weve  received no reply. As Ive 
Ref: DRN17123872seen nothing to indicate payment of £7,500 was actually made by Thilina, on the balance  of 
probabilities, Im satisfied  it didnt  transfer  or refund to the Mr D - the remaining balance as 
it shouldve. 
I also think Thilinas failure to carry out Mr Ds instructions has caused him a moderate 
amount of trouble and upset. Hes had to spend time chasing for an explanation as to why 
funds hadnt been transferred, unnecessarily attending its premises  to collect £17,500 of the 
original £25,000  hed originally transferred to it and being left without access to £7,500 along 
with the worry  of not knowing  what has happened  to his money. 
putting things right:
Within 14 days from the date of us notifying it that Mr D has accepted  our decision, Thilina 
should:
refund  £7,500 to Mr D;
pay Mr D 8% simple  interest per year* from 2 November  2018 to the date of 
settlement;
pay Mr D £250 in recognition of the trouble and upset Thilina caused him.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint. Thilina Sri Lanka UK Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive 
direct above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
David Curtis-Johsnon
ombudsman
*If Thilina considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Mr D how much  its taken off. It should also give him a certificate  
showing this if Mr D asks for one. That way he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs, if appropriate
Ref: DRN1712387