K822xcomplaint
Miss F complains about the quality of windows and doors she had supplied and fitted with a 
loan provided  by Shawbrook Bank Limited.   
A relative  helped Miss F with this complaint  but Ill generally refer to anything  thats been 
said on Miss Fs behalf as if she said it herself - to keep things simple. 
background 
Miss F had these windows and doors  installed in 2015. She says theyre  not fit for purpose - 
the house is cold and the goods and installation  are of unsatisfactory quality. She 
complained to the supplier but it didnt  resolve the matter so she asked Shawbrook to put 
things right - in line with obligations arising under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. She was dissatisfied with the response she got from Shawbrook  and brought her 
complaint to this service.   
Shawbrook arranged for an independent expert  to inspect the work. He said goods and 
services are of unsatisfactory quality and Shawbrook  accepts theres  been  a breach of 
contract. It considers Miss F should be put back in the position she would  have been  in if the 
sale hadnt taken  place. Shawbrook acknowledges the expert  considers a different product 
would have been more appropriate for Miss Fs particular location. But the alternative  
product is more expensive than the one Miss F had installed and Shawbrook doesnt think  it 
should have to pay for that - as it would put Miss F in a better position than she was in 
previously.
In order to resolve the matter, Shawbrook offered to 
cancel the loan agreement with nothing  further  to pay 
refund  all payments  made to date 
pay 8% interest on the refund from the date of payment until the date of settlement
pay Miss F £1,500  in light of the issues she experienced  
remove all reference to the loan agreement from Miss Fs credit file. 
Our adjudicator considered all of the evidence and he thinks  Shawbrooks offer represents a 
fair and reasonable outcome overall. 
Miss F doesnt agree. She says (in summary)
 
her main  reason for replacing the windows was to eliminate  draughts  and she 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the installation if she hadnt been told that issue  
would be resolved by installing these particular  windows;
the more expensive alternative product was installed in two of her rooms but the 
supplier didnt explain why and she assumed it was because these were  the smallest  
in the house; and
she relied on the expertise of the supplier and the goods and services  received are 
unfit for purpose.   
Miss F would like a settlement of at least £14,000. She asked for an ombudsman  to review  
the matter. 
Ref: DRN12062782my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached much  the same  conclusions 
as our adjudicator  for broadly the same  reasons. 
I have spoken  to Miss Fs representative. He told me that Miss F was unhappy  because  she 
didnt receive a copy of the inspection report organised by Shawbrook.  I arranged for a copy  
to be provided and Im satisfied Miss F has now had the opportunity to consider that and 
make further  submissions if she wanted  to. 
Under certain circumstances, section  75 of the CCA gives a consumer an equal  right to 
claim against the supplier  or the lender that provided the credit for goods and services  if 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier. 
Its not my role to apply  section 75, only a court can do that. Instead, Im looking at 
Shawbrooks response to the Miss Fs request for a refund. To be able to uphold this 
complaint I would have  to be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier - and the response from Shawbrook didnt represent a fair 
and reasonable remedy.  
Theres no dispute that Miss F paid to have the goods installed with credit  provided by 
Shawbrook. I can see theres been  some  discussion  in correspondence about  whether the 
goods were misrepresented and/or  are of unsatisfactory quality. Shawbrook  now accepts the 
windows and doors arent as they should  be. And I am satisfied all that remains  for me to 
decide is what represents a fair and reasonable outcome, in all of the circumstances. 
After the complaint was referred  to this service, Shawbrook offered to cancel the finance and 
provide a full refund  plus interest and compensation as well as rectifying Miss Fs credit  file. I 
appreciate Miss F feels Shawbrook should  do more. I understand she intends to have better 
windows installed in the future  and I can see why shed like Shawbrook  to pay for that. But, it 
looks as if those windows  will cost quite  a bit more than the windows Miss F got with the 
finance Shawbrook  provided. And I don't think it would be reasonable to require Shawbrook 
to pay for more expensive  windows in this situation. 
I can see that Miss F would  like Shawbrook to pay compound interest on any refund but Im 
afraid Im unable to require Shawbrook to do so, in these circumstances. I accept it may be 
appropriate for interest to be paid on top of a refund - but this is intended to compensate  the 
consumer for being deprived of the use of the money. I cant be certain  of the exact cost to 
Miss F of being deprived of the use of her money here. But, taking several factors into 
account, we generally  consider an interest rate of 8% simple  per year is reasonable. 
Amongst other things, this reflects the current statutory  interest  rate on judgment  debts.  And 
I find it is fair in this situation.  
Miss F has also suggested that interest should be paid from the date the loan agreement 
started. As this is paid to compensate Miss F for being without the use of the money,  I think  
it is reasonable for Shawbrook to pay interest from the date that Miss F made each payment. 
I understand Miss F is presently in discussions with third parties  about  having some new 
windows installed I asked  if she wanted  Shawbrook to arrange  for the current installation  to 
be removed but shed prefer to arrange this herself  in due course.  I think  thats  probably  
sensible as it allows for the removal to be scheduled to coincide with the installation of new 
windows.    
Ref: DRN12062783Shawbrook has offered to pay Miss F an additional £1,500  in light of the issues  she 
experienced. It doesnt break down what this is for exactly. But I can see that Miss F has 
experienced some distress and inconvenience and she told our adjudicator she also incurred 
financial losses - such as higher heating bills as a result of the breach of contract.  Miss F 
wasnt able to supply  much evidence about  her losses  due to the passage of time. But, I 
think its likely, on balance, that the £1,500 compensation Shawbrook has offered is fair 
overall. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Shawbrooks offer represents a fair and reasonable 
outcome. I consider  this puts Miss F back in the position she would have been in if the sale 
hadnt taken place - insofar as thats  reasonably  possible. I say this because  Miss F will get 
back the money she paid towards the loan plus interest. She will also receive reasonable 
compensation, have  no further liability under the finance agreement and any record of the 
loan will be removed from her credit file. Miss F is not, of course, obliged to accept my 
decision. In which case, it remains open  to her to pursue the matter by alternative  means 
should she wish to do so.  
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and direct Shawbrook Bank Limited to 
1.cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to pay; 
2.refund  any payments  made by Miss F under the finance agreement; 
3.pay interest on the refund above at 8% simple a year from the date of each payment 
until the date of settlement;
4.pay Miss F an additional £1,500 compensation; and 
5.remove any information  recorded  about the finance from Miss Fs credit  file. 
If Shawbrook  Bank  Limited considers it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss F how much  it has taken off and give her a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1206278