K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that the rental  agreement  he signed  to extend a lease for a vehicle with 
Lex Autolease Ltd is void as it isnt in the correct name. He says this means that any early  
termination charges  shouldnt  be applied.
The complaint was brought on Mr Ws behalf  by his wife, Mrs W but for ease of reference Im 
going to refer only to Mr W as he was the party to the agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd.
background
In January 2014 Mr W entered into a four year contract hire agreement  for a vehicle. This 
was not a business rental agreement but a personal one and the agreement was in the 
name of Mr W trading  as Company 1.
In June 2016 Mr W requested that the trading name was amended on the agreement to 
Company 2 Ltd. Lex Autolease informed Mr W this change  wasnt  possible as the lease  
was personal rather  than a business  account and so only trading  as would be acceptable. 
Mr W asked Lex Autolease  to amend the name to trading  as Company 2 and this 
amendment was made so that the name on the agreement was shown as Company 2 
trading as Company 2.
In August  2017  Mr W requested that the rental agreement for the car be extended  for a 
further six months. He signed the modifying agreement which was in the name Company 2 
trading as Company 2.
In October  2017 Lex Autolease says Mr W requested that the rental agreement name should 
be changed back to his sole name  from Company 2. 
One month into the extended period Mr W requested  that the rental agreement was 
terminated leaving five months left to run on the lease.  Lex Autolease sent Mr W an invoice 
for 50% of the remaining rental due under the agreement in keeping  with the terms and 
conditions.
Mr W complained  about the charges and said the agreement was null and void as it wasnt 
in the correct name. Lex Autolease didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that the early 
termination charges  were  valid. 
Mr W disagreed  with Lex Autoleases decision and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld.  She said that the 
question of whether  a contract was enforceable was a matter for the courts to decide and 
that this service, when  dealing  with complaints, took into account  what was fair and 
reasonable in reaching a decision. 
Here, Mr W had signed both the original  lease and the agreement extending the leases 
term, all the name changes had been at his request and hed also had full use of the vehicle. 
Our investigator said it was fair that he pay for the early termination  charges which  had been  
fully set out in the both of these agreements.
Mr W disagreed  with our investigators view.  He says the original agreement was in a name 
linked to his business which was then modified  to be in the name  of Company 2. Mr W says 
he should have  signed a transfer of contract to the other company name before the 
modifying agreement was signed. As this wasnt done the agreement  wasnt  valid.
Ref: DRN17077122As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says that the agreement modifying the original  lease by extending it for six months is 
null and void as it isnt in the correct  name.  He says he should have signed  a formal transfer 
agreement to put the lease into another name  before the extension was signed.  But its not 
in my remit to make  decisions as to whether contracts are legally enforceable  that would 
be for a court to decide. My role is to make fair decisions and while this does include taking 
into account of what the law says Im not bound by it in reaching what I feel is a fair and 
reasonable decision.
Mr W entered into a four year lease which was a consumer  or sole trader  agreement and not 
a business agreement. This agreement was in Mr Ws name. In June  2016  Mr W 
requested, via his wife who was authorised to make such changes  on the account, to amend 
the name from Mr W to Company 2 Limited. It was explained to Mr W by Lex Autolease 
that as this was a sole trader agreement this couldnt be agreed. So a compromise was 
reached in changing the name to Company 2 trading as Company 2. Mr W also provided a 
new signed direct  debit mandate to take effect  after the name  change.
Mr W decided  he wished to extend  the vehicles lease for a further six months  and the 
modifying agreement was drawn  up and signed  by Mr W in August 2017.  Ive seen this was 
modifying agreement was in the name of Company 2 trading as Company 2. Im satisfied it 
was Mr Ws intention at that time to continue to have use of that vehicle beyond the original 
end date of the rental agreement. And that by signing the modification agreement he was 
happy to be continued to be bound  by the rental agreements terms and conditions.  One of 
the terms and conditions of the rental  agreement  was that if the agreement was terminated 
before the end date then Mr W would be liable for 50% of the outstanding rental payments.
Ive seen that following the extension  to the lease  period there was another request to 
amend the name on the agreement, this time to Mr Ws sole name and this was done  by Lex 
Autolease a few days later. The invoice sent by Lex Autolease to Mr W for the outstanding 
rental payments was in his name.
So looking  at the evidence Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint as I dont think it would be 
reasonable or fair to say he should not now be abound by the terms of the lease agreement 
due to a potential issue with the name  that appeared on the modifying agreement  when he 
himself had asked for that change. Mr W had also signed both the original agreement and 
the extension  which shows he was happy  to abide to the terms and conditions.    
my final decision
So for the reasons given above  Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Ref: DRN17077123Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1707712