K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay)  have recorded a default on his credit file 
instead of a partial settlement.
background
Mr S fell into difficulties repaying the debt on a credit  card provided to him by NewDay.  They  
defaulted his account and reported  the default  to his credit  file in November 2017.
Mr S explained that he was experiencing mental health difficulties and NewDay eventually  
agreed to settle  his outstanding debt for a reduced  sum. Mr S says that at that point they 
also agreed to remove  any reference  to the default from his credit file. Hes upset that they 
didnt.
NewDay explained that they were  obligated to record the default on his file. They didnt think  
theyd done anything wrong.
But Mr S was still dissatisfied so he contacted this service and our investigator  provided his 
opinion. He noted Mr Ss direct debits were returned  for six consecutive months from March 
2017 and that NewDay had therefore  issued a letter to him in July 2017 explaining that if the 
arrears werent paid off with 28 days they would issue a default and report it to the credit 
reference agencies.  He thought NewDay had been  right to do this as Mr S was clearly  in 
breach of his contract at that point and had received monthly reminders of that fact. But he 
thought they should  then have issued the default  in August 2017 and not have waited  until 
November to do so.
He noted that NewDay  had marked Mr Ss credit file as settled when the reduced  
settlement was received. But he could not find evidence in their contact notes that any 
agreement had been reached with Mr S to remove the default if a settlement was made.  So 
he didnt think NewDay had been  unreasonable leaving it on file.
He went on to consider  NewDays  response  when they became aware of Mr Ss mental 
health difficulties.  He explained  that hed expect them  to be understanding and helpful and 
he thought they had been. Theyd  taken the account  away  from their debt recovery team  and 
placed it with a team more able to understand Mr Ss situation. He understood Mr S thought 
they should not have  defaulted his account when they were told about his illness.  But he 
thought by that time it was too late. Overall, he thought NewDay  should amend the date of 
default to August 2017 but he didnt think they needed to take any further  action.
NewDay disagreed  with the investigator.  They  said they allowed customers  ample 
opportunity to bring their accounts  in order before defaulting and they said theyd allowed 
Mr S to be eight months in arrears before doing  so. They thought this was reasonable. Mr S 
also disagreed  with the investigator so the complaint was referred for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN18800942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr S so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the default applied  correctly?
The Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  says that a default should be recorded when 
an account is three months in arrears and it would  expect  an account to be defaulted before 
it was six months in arrears. NewDay didnt  record the default  until Mr S was eight months in 
arrears and I dont think that was fair. By that time it was clear  Mr S wasnt  able to make  
payments in time. I think  the appropriate  time to register  the default  would have been  August 
2017, a month after the default notice was issued that warned of the implications of not 
paying the arrears.
was there  an agreement to remove the default from the credit file?
I dont think theres sufficient evidence of this. Ive reviewed NewDays records  and cant find 
reference to that course of action and I agree  with them that they have an obligation to report 
Mr Ss financial performance correctly. 
was NewDays response to Mr Ss ill health  sufficient?
I think it was. I can see that when they learnt  of Mr Ss ill health they redirected his account 
to the customer care team who were better placed  to help him and they continued to assist 
Mr S with his account by agreeing a reduced  settlement,  even after the default was applied.
So overall, I think NewDay  should  change the date of default but I dont think it would be fair 
to ask them to take any other action. 
Ref: DRN18800943my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell NewDay  Ltd to 
amend the date of default to August 2017 and ensure this is the date recorded on Mr Ss 
credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1880094