K821x#15complaint
Mr L says Elevate Credit  International  Limited  trading as Sunny lent to him irresponsibly. He 
says that he didnt think Sunny had looked  into his financial situation. He says that if it had 
done it wouldve  seen  that it wasnt responsible to lend to him. 
Mr L also says that he asked Sunny to contact him by email only.  But he says Sunny wasnt  
sympathetic to this and it still offered  him loans after he had said he had financial and other  
problems. 
background
This complaint is about ten instalment loans  Sunny  provided to Mr L between October 2016 
and April 2018. Some of the information Sunny  has provided about the loans is in my table 
below:
loan  
numberdate startedamount  
borrowedterm  
(months)date ended
1 17/10/2016 £200 6 31/03/2017
2 25/10/2016 £50 4 01/02/2017
3 16/05/2017 £150 6 01/11/2017
4 19/05/2017 £50 6 01/11/2017
5 10/06/2017 £50 6 01/08/2017
6 19/09/2017 £100 6 01/03/2018
7 21/09/2017 £50 6 01/03/2018
8 01/11/2017 £150 6 04/04/2018
9 08/01/2018 £100 6 04/04/2018
10 16/04/2018 £300 6 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought Mr L should receive compensation 
in respect of loans 6 to 10. He also thought  Mr L should receive  £150  compensation as he 
thought the way Sunny handled his complaint caused him trouble and upset. Sunny didnt 
agree with the adjudicators opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr L didnt disagree  with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 5. Because  of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement  about  these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing  relationship Mr L had with Sunny. So 
they are something  I will take into account  when considering the other loans  he took.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Ls case. Ive decided  to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint in part and have explained  why below. I think Mr Ls complaint should  be upheld  in 
respect of loans 6 to 10. 
Ref: DRN15490912Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L could 
repay his loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ls income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ls complaint. These questions are:
1.Did Sunny, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr L would be able to repay in a sustainable way?  If not, would those 
checks have shown  that Mr L would have been able to do so?
2.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ls indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or 
otherwise harmful?
3.Did Sunny act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about all of these questions and what  they mean for Mr Ls complaint.
Did Sunny, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr L would be able to repay in a sustainable  way? If not, would those checks have 
shown that Mr L would have been  able to do so?
By loan 6 Mr L had a borrowing relationship  with Sunny for just under a year in total.  And 
whilst there  was a gap of a few months  between  loans  2 and 3, loans 3, 4 and 5 all ran at the 
same time.  
I think is this an indication  that Mr L mayve been in financial difficulty.  So I think, given  the 
overall time Sunny had been lending, and the amounts Mr L had borrowed, it wouldve been  
proportionate to make a full review of Mr Ls finances In order to make sure he was in 
position to make the repayments sustainably.
I dont think Sunny did this. I can see that it looked  at his income and expenditure, and made  
some credit checks. But I cant see that it fully reviewed his finances.  So I need to think  
about what Sunny wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Ref: DRN15490913Mr L has provided some information  about  his financial circumstances including his bank 
statements. I accept that this isnt exactly what Sunny  wouldve  seen  at the time. But I think it 
wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I think  its 
reasonable to rely on it.
This shows that just before Mr L took loan 6 his income was around  £1,380.  His normal  
living costs  were about £630 and he had regular financial commitments of £300. This left him 
with a monthly disposable income of around  £450. 
But when Sunny approved loan 6 Mr L had other short term lending  outstanding and he 
would need to repay at least £400  in the near future. The amounts he had borrowed and 
repaid to other short term lenders has been  high in the past and it was to increase going 
forward. Mr L was also withdrawing  large  amounts in cash, and had been  for some time. So I 
dont think he had enough left over to be able to sustainably make the repayments to the 
Sunny loan. Especially  given he would need  to make these repayments over the next six 
months. 
So Im upholding  Mr Ls complaint about  loan 6 because I dont think that Sunny  carried  out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and such checks wouldve  more likely than not shown 
Sunny that Mr L couldnt sustainably repay this loan.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for loans 7 to 10 because  
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why this is the case  in the next section.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Mr Ls indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of lending.  Ive looked to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  have provided any 
further lending.  Given the particular circumstances  of Mr Ls case,  I think  that this point was 
reached by loan 7. I say this because:
the amounts  Mr L was borrowing were generally increasing, particularly over these 
later loans  and Sunny  ought to have  realised it was likely his indebtedness  was 
increasing unsustainably
Mr L wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  he owed Sunny. In fact loans  6, 7, 
8 and 9 all ran at the same time. So he was in effect paying  large  amounts of interest  
to service this debt over an extended  period
I think that Mr L lost out because Sunny  continued  to provide borrowing from loan 7 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ls 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans
So Im upholding  Mr Ls complaint about  loans 7 to 10 because the overall pattern of lending  
increased his indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and he lost 
out as a result.
Ref: DRN15490914Did Sunny act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, I think  Sunny  also acted 
unfairly to Mr L in how it handled his complaint. When  Mr L contacted  Sunny he informed it 
about the mental health problems he was having and how he wanted to be contacted. Sunny 
didnt really engage with this and seemed to only send  standard  responses.  Mr L needed to 
take additional steps before it would  consider  his complaint. I accept that Sunny needed to 
make sure it was in contact with the right person  but I dont  think it acted sensitively here.  
It also continued to add interest to his loans after Mr L had informed it he was in contact with 
a debt advisory service  (I can see this was a small amount) and it also continued to offer him 
new loans at this time.  I dont think either  of these  actions  were sympathetic, appropriate or 
fair, given  the circumstances.  
So I agree that how Sunny handled  this complaint wouldve likely caused  Mr L some trouble 
and upset. And I agree that £150  compensation is fair and reasonable compensation for this. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
pay Mr L £150;
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans 6 to 9;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan 6 from Mr Ls credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 7 means  any information  recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans 7 to 10 should be removed from Mr Ls credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
If Mr L still owes Sunny any of the principal balance he borrowed on loan 10 Sunny should 
remove all the interest  and charges applied to the outstanding balance. Sunny should  then 
re-work the account as if all payments made  by Mr L went to towards the principal. But 
importantly, Sunny needs to make sure that Mr L doesnt repay more than the principal 
amount borrowed.  
If after doing this Mr L hasnt repaid the principal  he borrowed Sunny can deduct this from 
the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mr L has already paid enough to repay the principal 
then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple  interest  from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
And if Sunny no longer  owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction  due to the amount 
owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any deductions for it 
from the amount  it needs to pay Mr L.
Ref: DRN15490915my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Elevate Credit International 
Limited should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1549091