K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold  him three packaged bank accounts as follows:
A Gold service  account which was taken  out in September  2001.
A Platinum  account which was taken  out in November 2007.
A Premier vantage account which was taken out in November 2011.
He also complains that Lloyds didnt respond  to his complaint.
background 
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 18 February  
2019, a copy of which is attached. I explained  that Lloyds had refunded the account  fees for 
the first two upgrades and paid interest on those fees. So I would only be looking at whether 
the premier vantage account was mis-sold in November 2011. I couldnt conclude  that the 
account had been mis-sold. 
But I also looked into how Lloyds had handled Mr Ds complaint and concluded  that, if Lloyds 
had sent its final response  to the right address, Mr D wouldve  taken  action to downgrade his 
account. I thought  that Lloyds should refund the monthly account  fees from December 2017 
to June 2018 and pay Mr D £100 compensation.
I invited both parties to provide further  evidence and comments.
Lloyds agreed  with my provisional decision and said it had already paid the £100 
compensation.
Mr D said the first letter from Lloyds  which he didnt receive because  it had been  sent to 
the wrong address - was in October 2017. So fees should be refunded from this date until 
now. He also raised concerns about  whether there had been a breach of data protection  law.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds told us it has already paid £100  compensation  to Mr D, so I dont need to include that 
in my final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I thought  Mr D wouldve downgraded  his account 
if hed received Lloyds final response  to his complaint.  And so it should  refund its fees from 
that date  December 2017. Mr D says Lloyds should refund its fees from October 2017  
when its first letter was sent  to date. Ive reconsidered this, but I dont agree. 
I cant be sure exactly what  action Mr D wouldve taken if hed received Lloyds letter  in 
October 2017, or its letter  in December 2017. But in October, Lloyds was still investigating 
Mr Ds complaint and had asked him for more  information to enable it to do so. By December  
2017  when it sent its final response to his complaint  it was clear the bank didnt  conclude  
the account had been mis-sold. And it was also clear what  action Mr D needed to take to 
downgrade his account. So I think the monthly fees should be refunded  from this date.
Ref: DRN19778692Its also fair that Lloyds  pays interest  on the fee refund from the date the fees were debited 
from Mr Ds account to the date theyre  refunded.
I understand Mr D has chosen  not to downgrade his account. But, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, I think he wouldve reasonably known what  action  he needed to take if 
he wanted to downgrade it by the time he referred  his complaint to us  so in June 2018. So 
I dont think theres any obligation  on Lloyds to refund the monthly account fees after this 
date.
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr D raised concerns about whether the bank 
had breached data protection laws.  Our adjudicator told Mr D he should raise any concerns 
with Lloyds so that it can investigate. Any complaint about an alleged data breach is best 
handled by the Information Commissioners Office so I wont  comment  on it further here.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank plc should:
1.Refund its premier  vantage monthly  account fees from December  2017  to June 2018 
inclusive.
2.Lloyds Bank plc must also pay interest  on this amount  at the simple rate of 8% per year 
from the date the fee was debited from Mr Ds account  to the date it makes the 
payment.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds must 
give Mr D a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19778693copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold him three packaged bank accounts as follows:
 A Gold service account  which was taken out in September 2001.
 A Platinum account  which was taken out in November 2007.
 A Premier vantage account  which was taken out in November 2011.
He also complains  that Lloyds  didnt respond to his complaint.
background
Lloyds refunded the account  fees for the first two upgrades and paid interest on those  fees. This is in 
line with what I wouldve  recommended if Id decided the accounts had been mis-sold. So I will only 
be looking at whether the premier vantage  account  was mis-sold in November  2011.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ds complaint  about the upgrade to the premier  vantage account 
should be upheld. But he did think Lloyds should pay Mr D £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
hed been caused  because Lloyds hadnt updated its address records and wrote to Mr D at his old 
address.
Lloyds agreed to pay Mr D £100.
Mr D didnt agree with our adjudicator saying, in summary, that £100 isnt enough to compensate him 
for the total lack of service and for every letter Lloyds  sent being  sent to the wrong address.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle complaints about  packaged  bank 
accounts on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide  Mr Ds complaint.
packaged bank account sale in 2011
Ive firstly thought about whether Mr D was given a clear choice in taking this account. At this point, it 
may also help for me to explain that I have to make my decision based on what I think is most  likely to 
have happened.
When the parties to a complaint disagree  about  what happened  (such as here) and theres  a lack of 
evidence from the time, I have to think about what I have been provided with, what  I do know and the 
wider circumstances at the time. In other  words,  what l have to do, in this case, is decide what I think 
is likely  to have happened having weighed up what both Mr D and Lloyds  have been able to provide 
me with.
Mr D says he went into the branch  to ask about a loan, but that he was told he could instead obtain a 
fee free overdraft if he upgraded to a premier  vantage account. I think  Mr D knew he didnt have to 
have the account if he didnt want it. I say this because he already held a fee free account  with an 
overdraft facility  so he knew he didnt have to upgrade to get that facility. And he wouldve known he 
could continue with his fee free account if he wanted to. Also, hed twice downgraded from packaged  
bank accounts to fee-free  accounts before.
Mr D also says he was told opening the account would improve his credit rating. I cant  be sure 
exactly what  was discussed,  but it is the conduct of the account, not the account itself, that would 
affect a consumers  credit score. Im not persuaded that Mr D was motivated to agree to the account 
Ref: DRN19778694just to improve his credit  rating. I think its more likely that Mr D was interested  in some of the other 
benefits of the account and that is why he chose it.
Overall I think  that, while  the bank may have offered him the account, Mr D knew he didnt need to go 
ahead with it if he didnt  want to.
Lloyds recommended the account to Mr D so it had to make sure it was suitable for him.
The account  provided worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, card 
protection, home emergency cover and a £500 interest and fee free overdraft with preferential  rates  
above this. Lloyds has provided its Your Personal Summary and Our Recommendation  which is a 
record of Mr Ds demands and needs  taken  at the time. From this, and despite what Mr D now recalls,  
I can see that he was interested in all of the benefits  listed. He told the advisor he didnt have existing  
cover in place  and that he wanted  to make use of the insurance policies  offered. He signed the 
summary and recommendation to confirm the details were correct.
Mr D was recommended an account which included benefits he was eligible for and couldve  used  
Mr D did travel, and had a car and a mobile phone. I can see that he made use of the overdraft  facility 
and he made  three claims  under the home  emergency  cover.
I accept that Mr D may not have been told everything about all of the benefits  but I cannot see 
anything specific that Mr D was not told that I think wouldve altered his decision to take out the 
account.
Mr D may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe he hasnt benefitted from the account as much as 
he had hoped  and expected when he initially took it out. But overall and taking everything into 
consideration I do not think  that this account was mis-sold.
response to Mr Ds complaint
Mr D wrote to Lloyds at least six times and didnt receive a response,  so he referred  his complaint  to 
us. Lloyds  told us that, due to a mistake, it didnt update Mr Ds address records.  So, when he 
complained, Lloyds replied to his old address. Lloyds  apologised and agreed with our adjudicators 
recommendation to pay Mr D £100 for the inconvenience and upset  this caused. I appreciate Mr D 
feels the sum should be higher, but I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I can see from the letters  Mr D wrote to Lloyds that he was worried that he was still paying  a monthly 
fee for the account which was the subject of his complaint. He couldve visited a branch  to downgrade 
his account but, because he hadnt received a reply from Lloyds, I dont  think  he knew what  he 
needed to do to stop the fees from being charged. After filling in the forms sent to him towards the 
end of October 2017 giving the details of his complaint, Mr D wrote to Lloyds six times between  
December 2017 and August 2018 asking  for a reply. Each time Lloyds wrote back to the wrong 
address. Lloyds could see Mr Ds account was still open  and he was still being  charged a monthly  
fee  and it wrote, on at least two occasions,  to tell him what to do if he wanted to downgrade the 
account. But these letters were also sent to the wrong  address.
I think  if Lloyds final response  letter had been sent to the right address, Mr D wouldve received it and 
I think  he wouldve taken  action to downgrade his account. He didnt do this because of Lloyds 
mistake. So I think Lloyds should refund some of its monthly  fees.
Mr D told us he still hasnt downgraded his account because  he still thinks the only way to obtain an 
overdraft facility is with the packaged bank account.  I think he reasonably couldve sought  advice 
about this by now by visiting a Lloyds branch. So I think Lloyds should refund its account fees, plus 
interest for the period from December 2017  when  Mr D wouldve received Lloyds reply  to his 
complaint if it had been sent to the right address,  to June 2018  when  Mr D referred  his complaint to 
this service.
Ref: DRN19778695my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Lloyds Bank plc should:
1. Pay Mr D £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience its caused.
2. Refund its premier  vantage monthly  account  fees from December 2017 to June 2018 inclusive.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1977869