K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr K says FICL mis-sold his a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mr K took out on a store card account on 
21 March 2002.  It was added to his account  when  he applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
I think FICL  made  Mr K aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to 
take it. I say this because  FICL has given  us a copy of the store card application form from the 
time of sale.  This shows there was a separate section  for PPI and that it is presented as 
optional. It says under this section only sign this box if you require cover. Mr K has then signed 
in this box on the application  form to say he consented to the information contained in it. So 
I think this reflected what he wanted. Had Mr K not wanted the PPI he could have completed 
the application and not signed in the box in the separate  section agreeing  to have the cover.
I cant be sure what happened at the time of sale when this application  form was completed by 
the parties, but based on what I know of how sales were conducted  and without further 
information to support  what Mr K is saying, I cannot safely conclude anything other than the 
form demonstrates a fair reflection of what Mr K wanted at that time (and he signed in the box 
and at the bottom of the application agreeing to have the card and PPI.)
This application was made by Mr K completing  an application in a store.  So because of this, 
I dont think a recommendation  was made  by FICL.  So FICL didnt have to check  if the policy 
was suitable for him. But it still needed  to make  sure it gave  Mr K enough information to 
make an informed choice  whether  the policy was right for him, taking into account his 
personal circumstances.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mr K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been. So I need to consider if Mr K would have acted differently and not bought the policy,  if 
better information had been provided.  And on balance I dont think better information 
wouldve led him to act differently.
I say this because  I think  the PPI could have been useful to Mr K in that his store card 
payments would be met in addition to any other provisions he held. I think the policy  would 
Ref: DRN19599872have provided  a useful benefit  for him. I havent seen enough information that would suggest 
to me he would have  been put off from having  it if he was given clearer  information. I also 
couldnt see any significant or limiting  terms that would have affected Mr Ks decision to take 
the policy out either.
Im not sure FICL gave clear information  on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think  this 
would have affected Mr Ks decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. The policy seemed affordable and he could have cancelled it at anytime.  
Ive taken into account all Mr Ks comments,  but for the reasons mentioned  above,  these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont  uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1959987