K820x#14complaint 
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr M says Bank of Scotland Plc trading  as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
Mr M bought  a Total Mortgage  Protection  Plan (TMPP) alongside a mortgage in 2004.. 
TMPP can be split into sections  Mortgage  Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life 
cover and critical illness cover. Mr M took out the PPI elements of the TMPP only.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
This policy was taken out in a meeting. I dont know exactly what  happened during the 
meeting and theres limited paperwork available from the time of sale. But based on what  
I know about how Halifax sold policies  like this at the time I think  the optional  nature 
wouldve been made clear. And I havent  seen  anything  to persuade me that Halifax 
didnt follow their usual  sales  process in this case.  So I think  its likely  Halifax  made it 
clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  although  I 
can understand why he cant  remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him 
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. Mr M says he wouldve received some sick pay 
from his employer. He also says he had savings. But the PPI wouldve  paid out in 
addition to any sick pay he wouldve received  and for up to 24 months if he was unable 
to work because of accident or sickness. It also wouldve paid out for up to 24 months if 
he lost his job. And having  the policy meant he could use his savings to cover  other  
necessary expenses  and what  couldve been  a difficult  time.  So I think he wouldve 
found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it appears he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr M now Ive issued my final decision  if it has not 
done so already. 
Ref: DRN14681632my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1468163