K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about regular premium payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken 
out alongside personal loans in November 2005, June 2006, April 2008  and November 
2008. Mrs H says Grampian Credit Union Limited (GCU) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs Hs employment circumstances remained the same for all the sales.
 
Mrs H has said she didnt know PPI was optional.  GCU has said the optional  nature of the 
policy would have been clear. Where theres a dispute about what happened,  I have to base 
my decision  on what  I think  is most likely to have happened, taking into account all the 
evidence that is available .
November 2005,  June 2006  and April 2008  sales
GCU have said these  sales would  have taken place during  a telephone conversation but 
would have been completed  when  documents sent to Mrs H were  signed and returned. 
GCU have been  able to provide some documentation from the time of sales.  From looking at 
all the documentation  provided, Im satisfied  that GCU made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. Mrs H would have had an opportunity to review  
the documents she had been sent and as she was taking  out additional credit, I would have  
expected her to have  read everything carefully before signing in agreement  with it. If she had 
any concerns about the PPI, I would have  expected  her to have raised this before signing 
the documents. 
In the November 2005 and April 2008  sales, GCU didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H. So it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs H got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
But in the June 2006 sale it did recommend the PPI - so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover 
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information GCU gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. Based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected  by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy provided accident and sickness 
cover for up to 24 months  per claim and unemployment cover for 12 months  per claim -  so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN17156272November 2008  sale
This sale took place  during an online application. The sale would have been completed 
when the documents sent to Mrs H were  signed  and returned.   
Ive seen a copy  of the loan agreement which has been signed by Mrs H. Im satisfied that 
GCU made it clear that Mrs H didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. 
Mrs H would have had an opportunity to review  the documents she had been sent and as 
she was taking out additional  credit, I would have  expected her to have read everything 
carefully before signing in agreement with it. If she had any concerns about the PPI I would 
have expected her to have raised this before  signing  the agreement.
GCU didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information GCU gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said but these points dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs H paid on her policy  and whether GCU treated 
her unfairly. 
GCU has told us that the commission  for Mrs Hs policy was less than half of what  she paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how GCU has been working  this out and based  on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Hs commission was less than half the cost of the 
policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell her about the commission  so I dont 
think GCU treated her unfairly.  This means  it doesnt need to pay Mrs H back any of the 
commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
Ref: DRN17156273ombudsman
Ref: DRN1715627