K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited took unnecessary  court action against him 
in regard to his hire purchase agreement (HPA).
Background
Mr D entered into a HPA with MotoNovo  in January 2017. He says that he fell into arrears  on 
his account before Christmas 2018 and contacted MotoNovo after Christmas to explain his 
situation. He agreed  to pay £300 a month in order to clear  the arrears  which  he says he did. 
However while he was making his payments  he says he received a default letter which  he 
thought didnt need action  as he was making  his agreed repayments.  He contacted 
MotoNovos solicitors to explain the situation and says they were rude and told him that they 
had put in an order for repossession.
Mr D raised a complaint  with MotoNovo  and received a final response letter saying 
MotoNovo had done nothing wrong.  He then says he received  a court  order to repossess the 
vehicle on 20 June  2019, even though there  were  no longer any arrears on his account. He 
says he asked to keep the vehicle.
Mr D says that since raising his complaint he has received further  letters saying he is in 
arrears when he isnt.
MotoNovo says that arrears were accumulating on Mr Ds account from March 2018 and that 
it made several attempts  at contact by telephone, email and letter but no response was 
received and so in January 2019, a Notice of Default  letter was issued. It says the letter 
explained that Mr D had until 21 January 2019  to bring  the agreement  up to date to prevent it 
being terminated and the vehicle recovered.
Mr D contacted MotoNovo  on 21 January with a proposed payment plan. It says he was told 
he would  need  to complete an income  and expenditure form. Although this was received 
parts of the form were incomplete. MotoNovo  says it tried to contact Mr D but was 
unsuccessful and so a Return  of Goods order was requested  through its solicitors.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. They noted  that Mr Ds account had been in arrears 
and that MotoNovo was allowed, under the terms of the HPA to take legal action to recover  
the vehicle and charge legal costs. However  they thought that legal action  in this case was 
pointless because  the vehicle wasnt recovered even though Mr D continued to make  
sporadic payments. They said there  was conflicting  information regarding the arrears in 
January 2019.
Our adjudicator recommended  that MotoNovo pay Mr D the legal fees incurred of £799 
(£493 plus £308), or credit his account with this sum.
MotoNovo didnt accept  our adjudicators  view.  It said between January and February 2019, 
it attempted  to contact  Mr D on a number of occasions as it hadnt received his income  and 
expenditure form. It said it couldnt  allow  the HPA to continue with arrears accumulating  
regardless of amount and that given Mr Ds poor payment  history  it made  the right decision  
in line with its process. It said that Mr D still had the vehicle but that if the agreement was 
broken it would look to recover  this. It did accept a mistake was made regarding the arrears 
amount in the final response letter.
Ref: DRN13691672My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Under DISP 3.3.4A  (3); it says that we may dismiss a complaint without considering 
its merits when the subject matter of the complaint has been subject to court 
proceedings where there has been a decision on the merits. In this case,  court action 
was taken and so I dont think we should  consider  the part of this complaint that was 
covered by the court proceedings,  that is the amount owed (including any costs). 
I could consider the service Mr D was provided  with by MotoNovo in regard to his 
account. I noted that Mr D had tried to bring his account up to date, but given his 
payment history I didnt  think  it unreasonable that MotoNovo took further action.
I thought that MotoNovo had provided  the service it should have done in regard to 
Mr Ds account. It had tried to work with him in regard to missed payments and made 
several attempts  at contact with Mr D before any further  action was taken. It provided  
the required notice  of the action  to be taken.
Mr D responded to my provisional decision.  He said that he had returned  the income and 
expenditure form before the court case took place and that he had paid the amount 
requested to bring his account  up to date. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked  again at this complaint following  Mr Ds response.  However my decision hasnt 
changed. As I set out there are parts of his complaint  which I havent considered due to them 
being subject  to court proceedings. In regard to the service aspect of Mr Ds complaint I do 
not find it unreasonable that MotoNovo decided to take further action given the payment 
history on Mr Ds account. 
On 3 January  2019, Mr D was sent a Notice of Default. This required him to pay the arrears 
of £617 by 21 January. This didnt  happen  but on 21 January Mr D contacted MotoNovo. He 
explained his situation and said he would make  £300 that day once his new card had 
arrived. A payment  is recorded on 22 January but this isnt enough  to clear the arrears.
On the call on 21 January, Mr D is told he will need to complete and income and expenditure 
form. Some information is received but not enough for MotoNovo to carry out its 
assessment. I can see that MotoNovo then tried to contact Mr D between 25 January and 
19 February with no success. At which point it contacted its solicitors about  return  of goods 
action.
The notes show that Mr D made contact with the solicitors on 26 February to say he had 
missed a £300 payment but that he would make payment of £300 until the arrears  were 
cleared. He said he had previously  provided  his income and expenditure information  to 
MotoNovo the previous month.
On 18 March 2019, there is a record of a call on which Mr D said he had trouble printing the 
income and expenditure form and so a copy is then sent to the solicitors.  At this point Mr Ds 
Ref: DRN13691673account was still in arrears. These arrears then increased  due to legal fees being  added on 
21 March. While I appreciate Mr Ds comments  about these, given the history on his account 
I do not find it unreasonable that MotoNovo was taking further action at this time and as the 
fees were incurred these  were added to Mr Ds account. I can then see that an email was 
sent from the solicitors  dated 26 March containing Mr Ds income and expenditure 
information.
In April, Mr D received information  from the solicitors saying he needed to make  a payment 
of £235.78 immediately and then his £158.95 payment on 28 April. Payments were  made  but 
these didnt clear the arrears as it hadnt included  the legal costs. Mr D was told about the 
arrears again on 21 May at which point the legal  fees were included.  The arrears  werent  
cleared and a Return of Goods order was put in place. I cannot comment  further on this or 
the directions  included  in it (including the payment of costs).
Overall, while  I can see Mr D was trying  to address the issue on his account I do not find, 
given his payment  history,  that MotoNovo did anything  wrong  by taking the action it did. 
Therefore I do not uphold  this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not think this service should look into the parts  of Mr Ds 
complaint about  the court  action and amount owed and do not uphold the parts  relating to 
the service Mr D received  from MotoNovo.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1369167