K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about the interest and charges The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has 
applied to his loan, credit  card and current account.
background
Mr J has had a current account with RBS for a number of years.  Hes also had a credit  card 
account and a loan (within  the last six years).  He complained to RBS about the overdraft 
charges applied to his current account during the last six years. Hes also complained about 
the charges applied to his credit card for late payments,  and for the interest rate applied  to 
his loan. He asked RBS to refund all the interest and charges applied over the last six years 
plus 8% interest as he feels he was unfairly  deprived of this money. He says that the 
charges and interest have led him to be in financial difficulties.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Js complaint. He explained that the interest and charges 
had been applied fairly and in-line  with the terms of his RBS accounts. He also explained 
that we cant comment  on the how much  an overdraft  charge is because of a Supreme Court 
Ruling. The investigator signposted Mr J to some organisations that may be able to help him 
manage his finances  if he found he was in difficulty.
Mr J disagreed with the investigator. He said that he has been  sent many  adverts  for loans 
which isnt responsible of RBS.  He also said that he asked RBS for help and it wouldnt give 
it to him. Mr J believes that the interest  and charges  are unfair  because  he hasnt received 
the level of service he expects of his bank. And he feels that by not refunding  him the 
interest and charges, RBS has directly contributed to him not being able to recover from his 
financial difficulties.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Overdraft charges
Mr J has had an arranged overdraft on his RBS current account for a number of years.  Ive 
seen the statements over the last six years which show the arranged  overdraft usage fee 
being charged. As the investigator explained,  in 2009 the Supreme Court ruled that these 
fees cant be deemed as being penalties, and as such  we cant  comment  on whether these 
fees are too high.  So Ive considered whether  the fees were fairly applied  to Mr Js overdraft.
The terms of Mr Js current account  say that he may be charged an arranged  overdraft fee  
and it explains that this fee is £6 per charging period and when this will be applied.  Having 
looked at Mr Js account statements, I can see that the fee has been  charged in line with 
these terms. So I wont be asking RBS to refund any of the arranged overdraft fees it has 
applied. 
Mr J has also mentioned  that he is charged  interest  on his overdraft, but that when he was a 
student he had this overdraft facility for free. It is common for banks to offer interest-free  
overdrafts to students. But Mr J is no-longer a student, and its also common  for interest  to 
Ref: DRN18686452be charged on current account overdrafts. So I cant see that RBS has done anything  wrong  
in charging the interest on Mr Js overdraft. 
Mr J has also said that the overdraft should be a short-term lending facility,  but he has been 
operating in his overdraft  for years. Its not uncommon for many people  to operate  their 
accounts in an overdraft but Mr J is correct,  RBS is able to demand  repayment of the 
overdraft from him at any time. So Mr J does  need  to take some responsibility in the conduct 
of his account. As I can see RBS has been  charging  the interest and fees correctly, I wont 
be asking it to refund any of these.
Loan account
In the last six years Mr J has had one loan account with RBS.  This was repaid in full early 
and had an interest rate of less than 8%. This was detailed in the loan agreement that Mr J 
agreed to when taking out the loan and theres  nothing to suggest that Mr J couldnt afford 
the loan at the time he took it out. So it follows that it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask 
RBS to repay any of the interest  it charged on Mr Js loan.
Credit card charges
Mr J has a credit card with RBS. Having considered his credit card statements over the last 
six years, Ive not seen any instance  where RBS has charged Mr J a fee unfairly. The fees 
have been charged in line with the terms of the credit card account. So I wont be asking 
RBS to refund these.
Financial difficulties
Mr J has explained that hes been  in a cycle of debt, and that if RBS refunds the interest  and 
charges its applied to his accounts then this would enable him to no longer be in financial 
difficulties. Im sorry to hear of the situation that Mr J finds himself in, it must be a difficult  
time. But I should point  out that RBS isnt under any obligation to refund these fees or 
charges. They have been applied correctly. Where a customer  is in financial difficulties, Id 
expect RBS to consider  this situation  and treat the customer positively and sympathetically. 
However RBS has said Mr J didnt indicate to it that he was in financial difficulties, so it 
wasnt able to offer him assistance.
I do understand that Mr J has said he went into his local branch for some help, and that this 
was a difficult step for him to take.  This was in 2017  and RBS doesnt hold any of the diary 
entries anymore to show what was discussed  in this meeting.  So its difficult  for me to say 
whether RBS could  have  done anything for Mr J at the time, but I can see that no application 
for borrowing was made. And RBS isnt obliged to lend additional money to Mr J if this is 
what he was looking for at the time.
Mr J is able to contact  RBS to explain that he is in financial difficulties; it may then be able to 
suggest options to help Mr J manage  or repay his debt. Mr J can also contact the 
organisations that our investigator  signposted him to, as they may also be able to help him 
manage his debt. But from what I can see, I dont think RBS has acted unreasonably.
Finally, Mr J has mentioned that the only contact that he gets from RBS are adverts  for loans 
which he finds goes against  its responsibility. I think its likely  that this is promotional material 
that gets sent to a number  of customers at the same  time. Mr J may be able to ask RBS to 
Ref: DRN18686453refrain from sending any promotional material to him in the future, but this is something hed 
have to ask RBS directly  about.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1868645