K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc did not help recover the money (and 
winnings) paid to an online  gambling company that turned out to be a scam. 
As Mrs W had all the dealings with Clydesdale Bank Plc, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
submissions as having come from Mrs W herself.
background
In November 2018, Mrs W deposited  around £2,000 (using her Mastercard debit card linked 
to her current account with Clydesdale) onto a gambling website  - winner365.com. She won 
around £4,200  and when  she tried to withdraw  her winnings she was unable to. 
After some further research, Mrs W found that winner365.com was not licensed to operate in 
the UK. She asked Clydesdale if it could help her process a chargeback claim because 
winner365.com refused to process her withdrawal  requests and had taken incorrect  amounts 
from her. Clydesdale explained to Mrs W that it couldnt help process chargeback claims in 
relation to her winnings  but could consider a claim that incorrect amounts were  taken  if she 
could supply evidence.  Mrs W said she had been  blocked from accessing her account  and 
the website was due to be shut down shortly. 
Mrs W complained  and Clydesdale issued its final response declining  to refund any 
payments made, so Mrs W referred her complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators  didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. He didnt find that Clydesdale  
acted unreasonably by declining to process chargeback  claims for Mrs W. Mrs W asked for 
an ombudsman to review  the complaint and it has therefore been referred to me for 
determination. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  Mrs Ws 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I dont dispute that Mrs W was the victim  of a scam  and winner365.com was not 
licensed to operate  in the UK as required by the UKs Gambling Commission. It was 
therefore operating  illegally when Mrs W transacted with it. I also dont dispute that Mrs W 
has presented evidence that she had winnings with winner365.com that it didnt honour. 
However, winner365.com operating illegally and dishonourably did not automatically entitle 
Mrs W to a claim under Mastercards  chargeback  scheme rules. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Mastercard whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between  the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved  between them after two 
presentments. Such  arbitration  is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback  can succeed. Our role in such  cases is not to second-guess 
Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine  whether the regulated 
card issuer  (i.e. Clydesdale) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting  (or choosing  not to 
present) a chargeback  on behalf of its cardholder (Mrs W).
Ref: DRN18577682There was no chargeback claim presented in this case under any reason code. In my 
judgment, this omission by Clydesdale was not an unreasonable  exercise of its discretion on 
whether or not to pursue the matter against winner365.com. 
Mastercards 2018 chargeback rules (applicable to the time of Mrs Ws transactions)  state:
Chargebacks are available to the issuer for transactions in which any value is purchased for 
gambling, investment or similar purposes. However, issuers have no chargeback rights 
related to the use of these  chips or value,  unspent chips, or withdrawal of such value, or on 
any winnings,  gains or losses resulting from the use of such chips or value.
This supports Clydesdales  decision  not to process  chargeback claims following Mrs Ws 
complaint that she was unable to withdraw her winnings. And thats specifically because 
Mastercard said Clydesdale  had no right to. 
Having discussed  the matter of fraud  and scams  with Mastercard,  it has explained that 
cardholder dispute  chargeback rights  are restricted regardless  of whether the activity was 
illegal. In short, Mastercard considers the purpose  of the transaction  to load funds into the 
gambling or investment account and not what activities are subsequently done with the 
funds. So even though Mrs W had valid claims surrounding the legitimacy of winner365.com 
 it didnt change  Clydesdales chargeback options  which were significantly limited  by 
Mastercard. 
For the reasons  set out above, I am not persuaded that Clydesdale acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in connection  with any rights or responsibilities under the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme.
Ive also thought about Mrs Ws suggestion that incorrect amounts were taken from her 
account. I listened to a call Mrs W had with Clydesdale  on 22 November 2018.  This call was 
in relation to Mrs W having  insufficient  funds to process a payment of £254  to 
winner365.com. During this call, the adviser  at Clydesdale informed Mrs W that transactions  
of £185 and £418.82 had already left her account. The adviser  asked Mrs W if she was 
paying a merchant in America  and she said yes. The adviser went onto explain that 
Clydesdale charges a 2.75% fee for this type of transaction, which  Mrs W said she 
understood. I dont  find that Mrs W disagreed with any of the amounts quoted to her in that 
call. Whilst I accept she went  on to make further payments, Im not persuaded that Mrs W 
disputed the amounts charged by winner365.com  at the point the payments were  taken. I 
also dont find that she didnt understand a fee would be applied to her foreign transactions.  
I have noted that Clydesdale  asked  Mrs W for evidence that winner365.com took incorrect  
amounts when she raised her concerns with it. Having considered  the evidence  supplied by 
Mrs W (including chat conversations with winner365.com) Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me the amounts taken from her were  incorrect. It follows  that I dont think  
Clydesdale treated Mrs W unfairly  by not taking her claim of incorrect  amounts being taken 
any further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and despite  my natural sympathy for Mrs Ws losses, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2021.
Ref: DRN18577683Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1857768