K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Close Brothers  Limited (Close Brothers) wont  allow her to reject a 
car she acquired through a Conditional Sale Agreement. 
background
Miss W says she took out a Conditional Sale Agreement with Close Brothers in 
November 2018  for a nine year old car with mileage of 65,000 miles.  She says in 
February 2019  about three  months after she had the car she had problems with the 
window wipers, heated seats  and reverse lights. She says to address this the fuse was 
replaced.
Miss W says when  she collected the car and took it home she experienced the same 
problems. But says the dealership told her it couldnt  help further as it suspected the car had 
been tampered with. 
At this point Miss W says she took the car to garage that dealt with the make of car she had. 
It identified further  work  needed to be done to the fuse which it did. However Miss W says 
the car later broke down.  At this point Miss W asked Close  Brothers to let her reject the car.
Close Brothers said there was no evidence of faults at the point of sale.  And Miss W should 
take the car back  to the last garage she dealt with as it felt it had caused  the car to break  
down.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint.  He felt under consumer legislation it was for 
Close Brothers to prove that there were no faults  present  at the point of sale as the problems 
Miss W experienced happened  less than six months  after she had the car. He recommended 
that Close Brothers Limited  should:-
-Allow Miss W to reject the car, and arrange  collection  of the car
-Unwind the finance agreement  and  remove it from Miss Ws credit file
-Refund any instalments paid from March onwards
-Pay £150 compensation for the trouble  and upset  this matter has caused.
Miss W accepted this view but Close Brothers  didnt. 
It said that it asked Miss W to obtain a diagnostic to ascertain  what the fault was so it could 
potentially look at a remedy via repairs.  But it said Miss W didnt  do this  she allowed the 
garage to complete the repairs there and then and within 30 minutes the car then broke 
down.  It felt it was logical that the break down was due to the work carried out 30 minutes 
earlier. It asked Miss W to get the garage that completed the repair  to rectify  the problem so 
that it could address the original complaint. But Miss W refused to do this. 
It reiterated Miss W needed to approach the garage  that did the work  on her car to get this 
matter rectified. It would then do an independent  investigation to assign liability.
Our investigator considered these comments but didnt change his view.
Ref: DRN16967822He felt it was clear there was an issue with the car before the manufacturing  garage  got 
involved  it and the dealership that did the first repair wouldnt have got involved if this 
hadnt been the case. He didnt think it was unreasonable for Miss W to try to get the 
manufacturing garage to repair the car. He acknowledged  it was unfortunate the car broke  
down shorty after the second repair. But felt the issue was already present and the 
dealership had had one opportunity to repair  the car but had failed to do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W feels  strongly about this and I do understand why. From what Ive seen it seems that 
no one involved in the sale or repair of her car is taking  responsibility for it.
I dont think there is any dispute that Miss W had problems with her car within  six months of 
getting it. The supplying  dealership carried out electrical work in March  2019  Ive seen the 
invoice that confirms that work.
Miss W says when  she experienced further problems she says that the supplying  dealership  
refused to help her as the car had been tampered  with. I havent seen any evidence  that the 
supplying dealership refused to assist Miss W further. But the customer  notes Close  
Brothers have given us to record  the supplying dealership saying  that the car had been 
tampered with. As that agrees with what Miss W has told us I see no reason not to believe 
her when she tells us it also refused to help further.
I have no evidence that Miss W tampered with her car. She has told us she is a learner 
driver, knows little about cars and isnt confident. I am inclined to believe her. In the absence 
of any evidence that any tampering occurred  I cant reasonably say that it did. On that basis I 
think the dealership  should have taken responsibility and looked at the car again  
particularly as the recurrence of the fault was still within the six months  time period  under 
which the onus,  in consumer law, is for the business to prove there wasnt  a fault at the point 
of sale not the consumer.  And the problem recurred  so soon after the original repair  work.
When Miss W contacted Close Brothers it advised her, as evidenced by its own notes, to 
take the car to the manufacturing garage to get a diagnostic  which  she did. Miss W says that 
garage went ahead with repairs even though she didnt ask it to do so. This may have been 
nave on Miss Ws part in allowing this to happen.  And I accept it wasnt  what Close  Brothers 
asked her to do.  However if a manufacturing garage identified,  and said, it could resolve the 
problem I can understand why Miss W allowed this to happen.
Close Brothers says it asked, and this is confirmed by its customer notes, Miss W to go back  
to the manufacturing garage to get the current problem  that caused  the car to break down 
 fixed but says Miss W refused to do this. I dont accept that. Miss W has told us she went 
back to the garage  but it wouldnt help I am inclined to believe her. I cant see why she 
wouldnt have done this if it would have resolved the problem.
We have gone  back to Close Brothers to ask if it will arrange an independent  inspection  
since it offered to do so if the manufacturing  garage  first dealt with the latest problem.
Ref: DRN16967823Close Brothers has said it wont  do this. It has reiterated that it felt it couldnt  complete any 
investigation into the original issues until the unauthorised work by the manufacturing garage 
was rectified.
I am disappointed at that response. I would have hoped an independent  investigation would 
have been able to identify  why the car finally broke  down and if there  were  any issues  
present or developing at the point  of sale. Given Close Brothers wont agree to that I can 
only make  my final decision on the information I have  to date.
In my view there is no dispute there were some  electrical issues within six months of Miss W 
getting the car, there  was one attempt to fix this problem which  didnt resolve the matter, I 
have been given no evidence to show Miss W tampered with the car as stated so I dont 
believe she did. Further  repairs were carried out by the manufacturing garage which  I dont 
feel was unreasonable.
I cant safely conclude why the car finally  broke  down. But I do feel I have enough evidence 
to show a problem  developed within six months  and after one repair  wasnt resolved. On that 
basis I think there are sufficient grounds for me to say its reasonable to allow   Miss W to 
reject the car since we broadly  say that faults that develop within six months  are present or 
developing at the point of sale unless  the business  can prove otherwise. And in this case 
Close Brothers hasnt.
I also think its reasonable to pay compensation to Miss W for the inconvenience caused. 
And to refund  payments  made from March 2019  when the car broke down .I believe if the 
supplying garage  that carried out the original work  had taken the car back to resolve any 
issues its possible the matter may have  been sorted and the car not broken down at all.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Close  Brothers  Limited should:-
-Allow Miss W to reject the car, and arrange  collection  of the car at no cost to Miss W.
-Unwind the finance agreement and remove it from Miss Ws credit file.
-Refund any instalments paid from  and including any payment in March 2019  with 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
-Pay £150 compensation for the trouble  and upset  this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2019.
Bridget Makins
Ref: DRN16967824ombudsman
Ref: DRN1696782