K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr K says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks case.
Mr K said,  in summary, he didnt need  PPI because of his significant work  benefits and that 
he wouldve been  able to maintain his repayments from these if he was out of work. He said 
he wasnt told about the costs and benefits of the policy and wouldve declined the insurance 
if given clearer information.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr K applied  for the card on line. He signed a credit agreement agreeing to take out 
the credit  card.  On it, there was a section about  PPI. To take out PPI, the customer 
wouldve had to select the box saying they wanted it. The box couldve been left 
blank if they didnt want PPI. There is a tick in the box on Mr Ks application saying 
that he wanted PPI. The box to select card registration was left blank. I think  it likely  
that Mr K wouldve understood PPI and card registration were  optional products and 
he didnt have to take them. So, I think it more likely  he opted to take PPI, completing 
the paperwork and signing  the form to say he wanted it. 
RBS didnt recommended the PPI to Mr K so it didnt have to check that it was 
suitable for him. However,  it still had to give him information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading, so that he could decide for himself if the PPI was right for him and if 
he wanted to buy it.
Mr K said he wouldve got sick pay from work,  six months at full pay and six months 
at half pay. He said he wouldve also have got redundancy pay and had £500  in 
savings.  Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ks circumstances at the time,  I cant  see 
that PPI was inappropriate for his needs. He was eligible to take out the policy  and it 
appeared affordable. I cant see that he was affected by any of the main  exclusions 
to or limits  on the PPI cover. The policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ks work 
benefits, allowing  him to use these to meet his other household expenses. It wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. I cant  see that Mr K other 
resources meant  that the PPI wasnt right for him. 
Mr K says the information he was given about PPI wasnt clear, particularly about  the 
costs and benefits. Its possible the information  RBS gave Mr K about PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr Ks said, but these points dont change  my decision.  I cant 
see that Mr K has lost out because of anything that RBS did wrong.
Ref: DRN10182792my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1018279