K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Plus500UK Ltd shouldnt have allowed him to open  a trading account 
and risk the amount of money he did. Hes also unhappy with some  of the ways the account 
worked.
background
Mr B opened  a contract for difference (CFD)  trading  account with Plus500  in 2017. He 
traded for a year and a half, making  losses of about £8,000.  He then complained  to Plus500, 
saying:
It shouldnt have  allowed him to trade without checking his background and financial 
circumstances more  carefully.
The contracts he traded (mostly based on cryptocurrencies)  were inconsistent in their 
expiries and didnt automatically  rollover  like other contracts. This led to his positions  
being closed earlier than he wanted.
He shouldnt have  been allowed to use such a high degree of leverage betting  on 
volatile products like cryptocurrencies.
He was offered  bonuses and incentives  to trade  which led him to bet more.
Plus500s platform sometimes  wouldnt let him close positions  when he wanted to.
Our investigator didnt  think Plus500 had done anything  wrong.  In summary, she said:
Plus500 followed relevant regulatory  rules and guidance when opening  Mr Bs 
account. It didnt  think  the account  was appropriate for him, warned him of the fact 
and he said he wanted to proceed  anyway.  
What products Plus500  offered, and the way they operated, were matters  where  it 
could exercise its commercial judgement. It explained how its products worked, and 
when theyd expire, clearly.
There were  times where volatility  or a lack of pricing in an underlying product might 
mean Plus500 could  reasonably suspend offering its own prices  on CFDs. This was 
also provided for within the terms of Mr Bs account.
Bonuses were  something firms were allowed to offer at the time Mr B opened his 
account. She didnt  think the fact Plus500  had offered certain  bonuses  or incentives 
meant it should be held responsible  for his losses.
Plus500 didnt  comment  further on our investigators  assessment.  But Mr B didnt agree with 
it, and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. He thought  Plus500 should  pay him 
back at least a portion  of the money  hed lost trading.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about all the points  Mr B has raised, and will address  them  in due 
course. But at its heart this complaint  is about Plus500 allowing Mr B to open  an account 
and expose himself to a level of risk which, unfortunately, left him with substantial  losses.
should Plus500 have let Mr B trade?
Ref: DRN12302222As a regulated firm Plus500 is subject to rules about how it carries  out its business. These 
are found  in the Conduct of Business (COBS) section of the regulators handbook.
COBS 10 says that for CFD accounts, Plus500  has to gather relevant information  from a 
client in order to decide whether the client has the necessary knowledge and experience to 
understand the risks the service entails  in other  words whether the service is appropriate 
for them.
If it decides the service  isnt appropriate  it has to provide  a warning to the client.  If the client  
still wants to go ahead  it is for Plus500 to decide whether to do so having regard to all the 
circumstances. This last part being  guidance set out in COBS 10.3.3.
As well as these rules,  COBS 2.1.1R  says Plus500 must act in accordance  with the best 
interest of its client.
Plus500 carried out an appropriate assessment on Mr B. It concluded a CFD account wasnt 
appropriate for him. It says it gave him a warning which  said:
Based on the answers  you provided  in the Assessment  of Appropriateness section of the 
Questionnaire you completed  earlier, together with the risks associated with CFD trading, we 
do not consider  that a CFD account  is appropriate  for you. If, after further  consideration, you 
still wish to open a CFD account you should be aware that you may be exposing  yourself  to 
risks that fall outside your knowledge  and experience. You should  familiarise yourself with 
the demo account available on our platform and the free educational material  and risk 
warning for CFDs on our website before commencing  trading with us. You may also wish to 
seek independent financial advice. CFDs are leveraged products which  carry a high level of 
risk to capital. Prices may move rapidly  against you and you could lose your entire  trading 
account balance.  If you wish to continue with your application, please accept the declaration 
below by ticking the box. If you have  any queries, please  do not hesitate to contact us.
Mr B said he wanted to continue anyway, and ticked the box to confirm:
I acknowledge your warning that a CFD account may not be appropriate  for me. However  I 
wish to proceed with my application  and I understand the risks associated  with CFD trading. 
I am aware  of your demo account and the educational material on your website.
We asked Plus500 what consideration it gave to whether or not to allow Mr B to open an 
account at this point,  in line with the rules  set out above.
It said it didnt think COBS  10.3.3  applied, because that part of the rule concerned the actual 
trading or transactions on the account. I dont agree. COBS  10.3.3 is part of the rule 
concerning the warnings  a firm is obliged to give those clients  it considers inappropriate for a 
CFD account. The purpose of Mr Bs account  was to trade (carry out transactions)  in CFDs, 
and so Plus500 needed to consider whether  to let him open the account and go ahead  with 
transactions in line with the guidance.  
While Plus500s not said it gave any individual consideration to Mr Ps application,  it has said 
it opened his account as there were no red flags on his application and economic profile,  he 
confirmed he was employed and had between  £5,000 to £20,000 to trade with per year.
So Plus500 warned  Mr B it didnt think CFD trading was appropriate for him. It told him about 
the option of using a demo  account  and pointed him to the educational material on its 
Ref: DRN12302223website. And when he said he wanted  to trade  anyway, it let him because there werent any 
red flags  on his application, he was employed  and said hed be risking  sums commensurate 
with his available savings.
Overall I dont think it was wrong for Plus500 to let Mr B trade  in these circumstances. Mr B 
has argued Plus500 shouldnt have let him deposit and risk such  a large  portion of his 
savings, or deposit  money from credit cards. There arent any specific  rules  or guidance  
about how much traders should be allowed to bet or how they should be able to fund their 
accounts. 
So considering whether  it was fair and reasonable for Plus500 to let Mr B trade  has to be 
done in light of the rules and guidance  Ive referred  to above. And in my view theres a 
balance to be struck.
On one hand Plus500 had to treat Mr B fairly and act in his best interest. He appears  to 
argue risking  so much  money on CFDs  wasnt in his interest.
But on the other hand, the rules allow for consumers to open CFD accounts after failing an 
appropriate test if warnings are given.
These things cant be incompatible. CFD trading cant be so contrary  to a customers 
interests that they could never  open an account if they failed  an appropriateness test, or 
thats what the regulator would have said in the rules. So all the circumstances must  be 
considered.
Here, I think  Plus500 could probably have done  more to consider Mr Bs particular 
application before  opening his account.  But it warned him it didnt think  the account  was 
appropriate for him. He chose to ignore those warnings  and proceed  anyway. He chose to 
trade and indeed did so for some time. None of these were things Plus500 advised him to 
do. Taking all this account I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for the risks Mr B took 
and accepted to transfer  to Plus500. So I dont think it would be fair to require it to 
compensate Mr B for his losses.
I think Mr Bs trading history  is also of some relevance here. In the first four months he had 
his account Mr B traded around  150 times  and overall his account was about  zero.  Hed had 
many winning trades,  and a number  of losing trades. So I think  by this point theres no 
question Mr B understood the risks he was exposing himself to and the way the product  
worked.
Almost all Mr Bs trades were bets on various  cryptocurrencies, and almost  all were bets that 
the values of the cryptocurrencies would rise. During the latter  part of 2017 the 
cryptocurrency markets rose and Mr B made some money. But they entered  a prolonged 
downturn in 2018,  during which time Mr Bs bets went  against him and he suffered his 
losses. Ultimately  Mr B unfortunately  suffered his losses as a result  of making bets which 
turned out to be wrong, not because of anything Plus500 did.
Mr Bs other concerns
Ive not got much to add to our investigators  comments around the things Mr B said about 
how his account  operated.
Ref: DRN12302224Im satisfied Plus500 was entitled to choose what products it offered for trading, and on what  
terms and timescales. Ive looked at its website platform and the specifications of the various 
CFDs are clearly explained.  
At the time Mr B opened his account  Plus500   and other  CFD providers  were allowed to 
offer bonuses and incentives. Ive seen nothing to suggest it did so with Mr B in an unfair or 
unreasonable way. And while the rules  around  this have since  changed, they werent  
retrospective.
Similarly, the amount  of leverage Plus500  offered Mr B was, as far as I can see, consistent 
with the standard across the industry  at that time and was of Plus500s standard  level too. It 
wasnt tailored to Mr B specifically. And Mr B could have mitigated the effect  of the leverage 
by choosing to trade  in smaller amounts or not at all.
Plus500s terms provide  for times when prices might  be unavailable, when it couldnt be 
satisfied of the underlying market price, for example in times of heightened  volatility or low 
liquidity. I think thats something thats also fair in principle  as the CFDs  Mr B traded were  
intended to mirror the underlying market and there may be times when that underlying  price  
was hard to establish. That would be the case even more so for a particularly illiquid and 
volatile product such as a cryptocurrency.  Ive seen nothing to suggest  that Plus500  unfairly  
halted trading  at times it shouldnt have.
I sympathise with Mr Bs position as I can see hes lost a lot of money trading CFDs.  And I 
dont underestimate  his strength of feeling about his complaint.  But for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont  think his losses are something  which Plus500 ought  fairly and reasonably  
to be held responsible for. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1230222