K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the refurbishment  charges  Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) made  when he 
returned a car at the end of its lease.
background
In August  2014  Mr C took receipt of a new car. He funded the deal through a hire agreement 
with Lex but when he returned  the car at the end of the hire period he was disappointed to 
get an invoice  for damage to several  areas  of the car that Lex said were  in an unsatisfactory  
condition and would need refurbishing. He disputed  the issue with Lex and they removed 
some of the charges but they still insisted there was extensive stone chipping  to the right 
hand front (RHF) door and the bonnet which  required  the whole  panel  to be repainted.
So Mr C referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. He 
compared the damage in the inspection report pictures to the industry guidelines provided by 
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  (BVRLA) and agreed that the chipping to 
the bonnet was extensive and beyond fair wear and tear. But he didnt think there  was 
sufficient damage evidenced to the RHF door. So he suggested  Lex waive  this charge and 
simply charge Mr C £163 to refurbish  the bonnet. 
Mr C agreed with the adjudicator but Lex didnt.  They insisted that the damage had been 
sufficiently evidenced  and they asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Lex but I agree with the adjudicators opinion  of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The hire agreement Mr C signed in 2014 said:
If the returned goods are not in reasonable condition  you must   pay us the cost of 
putting them  in that condition
The industry guidelines that Id expect businesses to follow  when assessing  what a 
reasonable condition is are the fair wear and tear guidelines provided by the BVRLA.
Ive considered each  of the two areas of alleged damage against these guidelines.
From the pictures in the third party collection  report it seems clear that the bonnet has 
extensive chipping  to it. The guidelines say that if the chipping  requires an entire area to be 
Ref: DRN19184952repainted its unacceptable and I think the bonnet would  be likely to require that level of 
refurbishment. So I think that charge  of £163 has been made  fairly.
I cant see any damage in the picture  provided of the RHF door.  Whilst there may be some 
there I dont  think its been  sufficiently  evidenced and I therefore dont think  a charge should 
have been levied.
So I think Lex have been fair to charge to refurbish damage to the bonnet but they shouldnt 
make a charge  to refurbish the door.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Lex Autolease Ltd to refund 
to Mr C the charge  of £142 they made  and Mr C has paid, for refurbishment to the RHF door 
panel. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1918495