K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs M say HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI when transferring their mortgage to HSBC.  The cover  was for 
Mr M only. He signed a separate Mortgage Repayment Protector  application form to apply 
for the cover. This asked Do you want  to arrange  cover? with equally noticeable boxes to 
tick to answer either yes or no. Next to the yes box was a prompt to fill in a separate  
direct debit form if the cover was wanted. 
On Mr Ms application form the PPI yes box is ticked and he signed  the separate  direct 
debit form for the policy. And I think Mr M wouldve known that if he didnt want the cover  he 
couldve ticked the no box and not signed the separate  direct  debit for the policy.
Taking everything into account,  and with what Ive said above  in mind, I think Mr M chose to 
take the PPI and HSBC likely  made  it clear that he didnt have to take it.
If HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M it had to do more and check the PPI was 
right for them. And HSBC  mightve recommended the PPI, so I think  its fair to assess the 
complaint on that basis  which places on HSBC more responsibility for the sale.
From what  Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, I think  the cover  was right 
for them. For example,  I think  Mr and Mrs M had a need for the cover they took out. It was 
cover for Mr M who, according  to the mortgage application, was the first applicant and the 
higher earner. He was also self-employed, so he wouldnt have  received  any sick pay if he 
were too sick to work.  And he wasnt affected  by any existing health  issues  that mightve 
been excluded  by the policy  so it wouldve been  useful for him if he were too sick to work. 
Also, being  self-employed  didnt stop Mr M qualifying for the cover.  And Mr M has told us he 
didnt have savings  or anything  else to help pay the mortgage if he wasnt  able to work.
Mr and Mrs M have  said that because Mr M was self-employed he wouldve found  it more 
difficult to make a claim. Theyve said Mr M would know before he had to close  his business, 
and this would make it harder to claim.  But I dont think this wouldve affected  Mr M in the 
way hes suggested,  unless he expected unemployment  at the policy  start date  and I dont 
think at the policy start date its likely  Mr and Mrs M expected Mr M to suffer  unemployment 
due to a lack of work, given that theyd just taken a mortgage and were relying on his 
earnings to pay it.
Similarly I dont  think  the policy exclusion relating  to normal or seasonal unemployment 
made the policy unsuitable for Mr and Mrs M. Mr Ms earnings  for mortgage purposes were  
based on Mr Ms existing work  pattern in recent  years. So, based on that pattern, and with 
Ref: DRN16490892any seasonal or normal  fluctuations that pattern involved, the Mr and Mrs M expected to be 
able to pay the mortgage. So the policy wasnt needed to supplement Mr Ms normal  income. 
But if Mr Ms business wasnt getting enough work and he needed to find other work and 
claim on the cover to help with his mortgage costs,  I think  Mr M, so long as he met the other 
normal requirements, could have made a successful unemployment claim on the cover.  
I say this taking into account  that I dont think the policy terms and what  they said about  
Mr M closing  his business, registering as unemployed or being available for employment  are 
terms that wouldve  stopped or made  it difficult for Mr M to claim on the policy.  Mr M has said 
the policy terms meant hed have  to close his business and couldnt take part-time work for 
an employer. But in the circumstances in which Mr M mightve expected to be able to make 
a claim for unemployment on the policy, I think he couldve done so without undue difficulty.
So, having  carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ms points on this, I still think  the policy offered 
sickness and unemployment cover of a kind that Mr and Mrs M had a need for.
Mr and Mrs M have  said they werent told about  the terms,  costs  or benefits of the PPI. Its 
possible that the information HSBC  gave them about the cover couldve been clearer. But 
the application form Mr M signed said the policy was cover  for the mortgage payments for up 
to twelve months in the event of unemployment,  accident or sickness. It also said how much  
it would  pay each month for a successful claim. Mr M chose to take the cover  so it looks 
like he wanted this type of cover. And, as Ive said above, I dont think the policy terms and 
conditions wouldve stopped the cover  being  useful to Mr and Mrs M. So, taking everything 
into account, I dont  think better information about  the cover wouldve changed the decision 
Mr and Mrs M made about taking the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Ms points  but, for the reasons Ive already given above,  
these points dont  change my decision.
What Ive said above means HSBC doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr 
and Mrs M. But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  HSBC didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But HSBC  Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019. 
Ref: DRN16490893Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1649089