K821x#15complaint
Miss B has complained  about  Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling  of her car insurance  
policy. 
Reference to Ageas  includes  their agents.
Miss Bs father has assisted her by making  representations to both Ageas and our service.  
But, for ease, where I refer to what Miss B has said that includes comments  made by her 
father on her behalf.
background
Miss Bs car was insured  with Ageas. On 5 April 2018, Miss B was driving  when she had an 
accident with another  car. Miss Bs car was a total loss.
Ageas didnt pay Miss Bs claim saying they didnt believe the accident and damage 
happened as Miss B described. Miss B complained but Ageas didnt change  their position. 
So, Miss B brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. He 
felt that Ageas actions were reasonable. As Miss B didnt think  that was fair, the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 19 June 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
Under Miss Bs policy Ageas must deal with claims  resulting from accidental damage. 
Miss B told them that an accident occurred and that it was her fault. She said her 
steering wheel went funny and she couldnt  turn it which caused her to veer into the 
other car. Ageas said that from her description it sounded  like a mechanical failure 
caused the steering wheel to behave in that way. As mechanical  failures  are not 
covered under the policy, Ageas asked an engineer to examine the car. The engineer 
said there was nothing wrong  with the steering, so no mechanical failure. The 
engineer appointed by Miss B said one of her tyres  suffered  a blow out which caused 
the steering to act in the way it did. But Ageas engineer disagreed  saying the tyre 
most likely became deflated on impact and didnt  blow out before the accident. I think 
its therefore the case that Ageas  engineer found no fault with the car or the tyre.
But there was an accident. And as Ive said above,  the policy covers accidental  
damage but Ageas refused the claim. In their final response letter to Miss B dated  
29 March 2019,  Ageas said:
We have completed our investigation and would refer you to our telephone  
conversation on 10th May 2018  and subsequent letter where we informed you 
as a result  of our investigations we would not be dealing  with your claim.
During our conversation  with you we advised that the decision had been 
reached to reject both yours and the claim presented by the other driver 
involved in this collision due to serious  concerns over the circumstances  and 
damage to both vehicles.  In view of this and our enquiries, it was our belief 
Ref: DRN18428742that the incident had not occurred  as reported and this was the reason behind  
our decision.
We would  confirm that we are unable to divulge our concerns. [My emphasis]
Ageas notes of their conversation with Miss B from 10 May 2018,  which  they refer to, 
say they told her they have serious  concerns surrounding the claim and the damage  
and that they wont  be paying  her claim. Miss B asked why she wasnt  believed.  
Ageas told her they would  write  to her. And Ageas did send her a letter  that same 
day which said: 
Our investigations have  now been  completed  and we must advise that we 
have serious concerns  regarding the circumstances  surrounding  this incident 
or if the damage  occurred in the manor described.
In view of the above  we have no offers to make in settlement  of your claim.
Miss Bs father made several attempts to find out why the claim had been refused. 
On 16 May 2018, he wrote to Ageas. He asked: Also could you advise me as to 
what your serious concerns are regarding the circumstances surrounding the 
accident and the damage  not occurring in the manor described?  Ageas responded 
by saying: I am afraid we cannot  currently release any of these concerns until such  
time as our investigations  are resolved and the claim  is closed in full.
On 28 June 2018, Miss Bs father again wrote to Ageas. He said Ageas had told his 
daughter in their 10 May 2018  letter that the investigation had been completed.  He 
again asked could you please  inform me of your serious concerns? Ageas 
response was: 
Those investigations have been  completed  and we have repudiated your 
claim on the basis, however the claim in its entirety  is still open and until the 
claim is closed  we are still unable to release the data requested.
On the available evidence, I dont think Ageas gave Miss B sufficient information for 
her to know why they refused her claim.  And as mentioned, in the final response 
letter they told her: We would confirm that we are unable to divulge our concerns. 
While Miss Bs policy says Ageas will cover  a claim for accidental damage,  there  are 
certain circumstances  in which Ageas can refuse  to do so. But where  that happens, 
in order to do so fairly,  I think its reasonable that Ageas should give Miss B sufficient 
information for her to know  the reason(s) for their refusal. That way she can 
challenge Ageas  decision  and provide further  information or evidence.  But I dont 
think that happened in this case. So, I cant say Ageas have  acted reasonably in 
turning down Miss Bs claim.
For the reasons  given  above, I intend to uphold this complaint.  I intend  to require 
Ageas to deal with Miss Bs claim under  the remaining terms of the policy. If they 
settle her claim by paying her the total loss value of her car they should  also add 
simple interest to that amount  at a rate of 8% a year from the date of her claim until 
the settlement  is paid to her. This matter  has been ongoing for over two years and 
Im aware that it has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Miss B. She 
has been unable  to use her car and she hasnt been paid a settlement for the loss of 
her car. I therefore intend to require Ageas to pay her £500 compensation to address 
Ref: DRN18428743the impact of that. If Ageas have made  any adverse records on any external 
databases relating  to Miss B resulting  from this accident, those records  should  be 
removed.
The parties were invited to comment on my provisional findings. Miss B didnt make any 
comments. Ageas disagreed with my provisional decision. Ageas explained in detail why 
they refused Miss Bs claim and the concerns they had. They said they are now willing  to 
disclose their concerns  to Miss Bs father  who is her representative.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. But Id like to respond to Ageas comments as follows.
Ageas have, as they have done so before, explained to our service the concerns they had 
with Miss Bs claim.  But as I said in my provisional  decision, Ageas didnt explain their 
reasons for refusing  the claim to Miss B. Given the seriousness of Ageas concerns and the 
impact refusing the claim  had on Miss B, I think it was unfair and unreasonable that Miss B 
wasnt given the opportunity to answer those  concerns. Without knowing the reasons why 
Ageas refused her claim, Miss B was deprived  of the opportunity of answering  Ageas 
concerns and providing evidence in support of her claim.
Ageas have said they are now willing to disclose to Miss Bs father their reasons for refusing 
the claim.  But it has been more than two years  since the accident.  Given the passage of time 
I think Miss B has been disadvantaged. Thats because with the passage of time memories 
may fade and evidence may no longer be available. So I think Ageas delay in explaining the 
reasons for their decision  to refuse her claim may have prejudiced her position. Im therefore 
upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited 
to:
Deal with Miss Bs claim under the terms of the policy. If they settle her claim by 
paying her the total loss value of her car they should also add simple interest to that 
amount at a rate of 8% a year from the date of her claim until the settlement is paid to 
her.1
Pay Miss B £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Miss B has accepted  my 
final decision. If they pay later than this they must  also pay interest  on that amount  
from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.
If Ageas have made any adverse records  on any external databases relating to 
Miss B resulting from this accident,  those records should be removed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept
or reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
1 If Ageas consider that they are required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Miss B how much they have taken off. They  should  also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN18428744Mehmet Osman
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1842874