K820x#14Complaint
Miss R has complained to us that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Birmingham  Midshires 
(Birmingham Midshires), mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) 
policy in March 2001.
She says she was told she had to buy the policy and also didnt need  it.  
Background 
Miss R bought the MPPI  to go with a mortgage which shed already taken out, in June 2000.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think that the policy had been  mis-sold.  Because  Miss R disagrees, 
her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about MPPI. 
These rules  deal with paying back commission from PPI sales.  Ive seen that Birmingham 
Midshires has already  paid Miss R some  compensation for the commission  it received for 
the MPPI  sale. It said that the level of commission and profit  share it received for Miss Rs 
MPPI policy was under  50%. So it says there wasnt an unfair relationship  as defined by 
the rules - and it didnt  need to refund anything Miss R paid for the MPPI,  although  it was 
willing to do so as a goodwill offer.
My decision  is therefore about  only the mis-sale  part of Miss Rs MPPI complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen its not clear  how Miss R bought  the MPPI, although I can also see that the MPPI 
was to be used  alongside her mortgage.  So Ive looked at Miss Rs complaint on the basis 
that Birmingham  Midshires made  a recommendation that she should  buy the cover, even  
though thats not necessarily the way the sale happened. That means Ive looked  what 
happened on the assumption that Birmingham Midshires had to make  sure that the policy 
was suitable for Miss Rs situation and that the information it gave  her was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Miss R strongly believes that she bought the MPPI  at the same  time as she took out the 
mortgage. From what Ive seen, having looked  at the paperwork  Birmingham  Midshires sent 
us, it looks more likely that she bought  the policy around 10 months later. 
Some of the sale paperworks  no longer  available.  Thats not unusual.  So Ive looked 
carefully at what Birmingham Midshires has been able to give us. I havent seen anything to 
make me think that Birmingham Midshires presented the policy  to Miss R in such a way that 
she wouldve thought  she had to buy it. From what I know  about  the documentation  and the 
sales process used in similar sales by Birmingham Midshires, I think its more likely  that 
Birmingham Midshires made it clear to Miss R that she had a choice about whether to buy 
Ref: DRN17177062the policy. And given  that it was taken out some time after shed arranged her mortgage,  she 
would have been aware it wasnt  something  she had to buy in order to get the mortgage she 
wanted. 
Ive next looked to see if theres anything else that makes me think that Birmingham 
Midshires might have  mis-sold the policy. 
Ive looked at the MPPI policy terms and cant see that Miss R wouldve been adversely 
affected by any of the main policy terms or exclusions. 
Ive then looked at Miss Rs personal situation. Miss R told us that she wasnt  entitled to 
benefits from her employer if she couldnt  work. She also told us about a life policy  she had. 
Life insurance is a different type of insurance  and one that wouldnt have helped her if she 
was unable to work  due to accident or sickness, of if she lost her job. Miss R also told us she 
couldve relied on her partner to help her with the monthly repayments. Although the 
possibility of being able to get help from partner is reassuring, peoples circumstances and 
therefore their ability to offer financial help can easily change.
Ive seen that the MPPI policy gave Miss R up to twelve months  benefit. In taking out a 
mortgage, Miss R was making a significant financial commitment.  If she couldnt work she 
would suffer a large fall in income and could be put at risk of losing  her home.  
So overall I think Miss R wouldve found the PPI cover useful. 
I think Birmingham Midshires couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Miss R wouldve still bought  it. I dont think  the cost of the policy was 
very different to what  was available elsewhere  and the benefits (as Ive said above)  seem 
suitable for Miss Rs circumstances. The policy cost £15.32 per month,  with a monthly 
benefit of £242. So if Miss R made  a successful  claim, she could potentially get a lot more 
than was paid for the policy. 
It follows that Im not upholding  Miss Rs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her.
In relation to the commission offer Birmingham Midshires has made,  I agree that it didnt 
have to refund anything  as the level of commission  and profit share  it received was under 
50%.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Michael Goldberg 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1717706