K821x#15Complaint
Ms D complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) didnt do enough  to help 
her when she found that her credit card was blocked  during a trip abroad. She would like to 
be compensated for the costs she incurred  as a result of the blocked  card.
Background
Ms D travelled abroad in late 2018.  She tried to make a payment with her credit card on the 
first day of her trip however the transaction was declined. Ms D contacted Barclaycard to find 
out why the card had been  declined and they advised her that the card was blocked. 
Barclaycard arranged to send  emergency cash to Ms D. However,  this was unfortunately 
stolen from her hotel room after she collected it.
Ms D contacted Barclaycard asking for more emergency cash to be sent to her. Barclaycard 
were unable to send any more cash to Ms D at that stage,  but they agreed to send  her an 
emergency credit card instead. The card was sent to the address Ms D provided but she 
was no longer staying  there when it arrived.
The emergency card was returned to the couriers depot as the hotel would not accept the 
delivery because  Ms D was no longer a guest  of theirs. This resulted in Ms D having to make 
several trips to different  distribution centres  before  she managed  to locate the card. Ms D 
made these  trips by taxi as she has difficulties with her mobility.  
Ms D was unable to make cash withdrawals  using the emergency  credit card,  so she 
complained to Barclaycard and they arranged to send her more emergency cash. 
Barclaycard closed the complaint and Ms D was paid £200 in compensation, which included 
£113.65 for the phone  calls she made to them from abroad and £19.79 to cover  some of her 
taxi fares.
Ms D was unhappy with the amount of compensation Barclaycard  paid to her and contacted 
our service.  However, our investigator didnt think that Barclaycard had acted unfairly and 
didnt think they needed to make  any further payment to Ms D. 
Ms D asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She would like Barclaycard 
to refund the charges  applied to her credit  card account, to have the cost of the calls she had 
to make reimbursed as well as the cost of the taxis she had to take to retrieve  her card.  She 
has also advised us that this situation has left her with financial difficulties. 
I issued a provisional decision on 4 June 2020.  I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im minded to part 
uphold the complaint and Ive explained  my reasons below. 
I am sorry  to hear about the difficulties Ms D has had while she was abroad. Ms D 
realised that her card was blocked when she tried to make a payment with the card 
on the first day of her trip. Barclaycard have told us that Ms D had been issued with a 
new credit  card at the end of October 2018  due to a third-party data breach. This was 
sent to her home  address  and she was advised  of the issue  via text message. 
However, Ms D said that she knew nothing  about  the data breach, did not receive a 
new card other than the emergency card and she also did not receive any 
correspondence from Barclaycard in relation to this matter.  
Ref: DRN12106592I have seen Barclaycards  internal system  notes specific  to Ms Ds account.  These  
notes say that Ms D was sent a text message in early September  2018, on the same  
mobile number that it held for her. The message informed her that there  had been a 
data breach and of the steps  that were being taken by Barclaycard to rectify the 
situation. 
A new card was issued  to Ms D in October  2018 before she travelled abroad, and her 
old card was not cancelled until the beginning of November 2018. Ms D contacted 
Barclaycard at the end of September 2018 to ask for information about  money  while 
travelling abroad. Barclaycard have told us that she verified herself using  their 
automated telephone line and that she would have  heard a recorded message about 
the new cards being issued  before she could  proceed any further with the call.
Barclaycard said the letter  Ms D received  on her return was in relation to the newly 
issued card being blocked. This was for her protection  as she had advised them she 
was abroad, so they didnt  issue another card until after she contacted  them on her 
return home.
The evidence I have  seen  indicates that the card had been sent to Ms D in advance  
of her trip and that she had been notified  by Barclaycard of the issue.  I think the 
steps Barclaycard  took were sufficient that Ms D ought to have been aware that a 
new card was being issued to her and that if she hadnt received  it, she had enough 
time to contact Barclaycard before she travelled. It seems that Ms D took with her the 
old card that had been blocked and this is what caused many of the issues she 
experienced during her trip. So, I dont think that Barclaycard have done anything  
wrong here.
When Ms D discovered her card would not work, she contacted  Barclaycard 
requesting that emergency cash be sent to her and they arranged this for her. 
Unfortunately, Ms Ds bag was later stolen with all the emergency cash in it. 
Barclaycard were unable  to send any more cash to Ms D, but they did arrange for an 
emergency credit card to be sent to her.
Ms D told us that the emergency credit card was delivered to the wrong address 
however Barclaycard sent it to the address of the hotel she had provided  them  with. 
Ms D said that she had to get numerous taxis in order to track  down the card 
however Barclaycard sent the card to the address that was provided. So, I am unable  
to find them  responsible for the card being  returned to the depot by the hotel or the 
cost of the taxis that Ms D incurred in trying to locate  the card. 
Ms D told us that she suffers from an illness which causes her mobility  issues.  
Barclaycards internal notes indicate that they were first made  aware of Ms Ds illness 
during a call she made to them  in November 2018  about the blocked  card.  
Having listened  to this call, there is no indication from Ms D that she needed any 
extra support at that time. So, I cant say that Barclaycard did not do anything to help 
her in this regard as they were unaware  that Ms D required any additional support 
from them.
Ms D also incurred a large  phone  bill as a result of the numerous calls she had to 
make about  the blocked card while she was away. I have listened to the calls and I 
find that although Barclaycard did help with Ms Ds situation, there were many calls 
when Ms D was on hold for long periods of time. 
Ref: DRN12106593Ms D had to explain her situation  over and over to different staff members and she 
was constantly  being put on hold while they attempted to transfer her to the correct  
area. It was obvious on many of these calls that Ms D was getting  more and more 
distressed. There was also a time difference which meant that Ms D made a number 
of these long phone  calls in the early  hours  of the morning and there  was only one 
occasion where an operator offered to call Ms D back. 
I think the length of time Ms D spent  of the phone  to Barclays and Barclaycard added  
to her distress, and at times it was difficult for her to get the information she needed.  
The staff members could  have done  more  to ensure no additional  distress  was 
caused to Ms D when  she was obviously  in a vulnerable state.  
Barclaycard has already  paid Ms D £200  in compensation, which included £113.65 to 
cover the cost of the phone calls she made  to them. I think  it was right for 
Barclaycard to cover the cost of these calls due to the service  she experienced 
during these calls.  However, I dont think £200  adequately reflects  the distress and 
inconvenience the poor service caused  her. So, I am minded to order Barclaycard to 
pay Ms D an additional  £100 for this, bringing  the total payment to her to £300.
Ms D has told us that she has been left in financial difficulty as a result  of the money  
being stolen and Barclaycard not refunding the costs  she incurred. I understand that 
this has been  a difficult time for Ms D but as Ive already explained above, I dont 
think it would  be fair to say that Barclaycard were responsible for the issues  that 
occurred as a result of Ms Ds card being  blocked. And as such, Barclaycard arent 
responsible for the situation Ms D has found  herself in. However, I would suggest 
that Barclaycard  discuss Ms Ds current financial situation with her to see what  they 
can do to assist her.
Overall, I think Barclaycard did try to help Ms D when she found herself in this 
distressing situation  however the level of service she received added to her distress 
on some  occasions and for that I think Barclaycard need to compensate her further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions they wanted me to consider 
before I reached my final decision. Barclaycard accepted my provisional  decision and Ms D 
responded with some  further thoughts on the matter.
Ms D said in summary: 
She thought  she had made Barclaycard aware of her health issues  prior to 
November 2018.
She never received the replacement card for the card that was blocked.
Her card was not involved  in the data breach  and should never have been blocked.
Barclaycard put the wrong  details  on the original emergency cash transfer, so Ms D 
had to travel to several different  locations to receive the cash.
Barclaycard responded to these points  and said in summary: 
They have no record on their systems of Ms Ds illness prior to November 2018 but 
these details are now recorded on her file for future reference. They also said they 
did assist her while she was abroad and that there were  no further additional support 
measures they could have offered.
They have previously  supplied evidence to show the card was blocked  and the 
replacement card was sent to the address they have on record.
Ref: DRN12106594They were notified that Ms Ds card details could have been compromised due to a 
third-party data breach  and took the appropriate steps to block  the card and protect 
her account against fraud. They provided  prior notification that they would be 
blocking the card, which was sent to the contact details they have  on record for Ms D 
before she travelled  abroad.
They were not made aware of any errors with the processing of the emergency cash, 
which is arranged by a third-party,  and would  not expect a customer  to travel to 
different locations  to receive the cash. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have already commented on some of 
the issues Ms D has raised  since receiving  my provisional decision but for clarity I have 
addressed each of issues  in order  below.
In my provisional decision I said that Barclaycards  internal notes indicated they were first 
made aware  of Ms Ds illness during a call she made to them in November 2018. Ms D has 
provided no evidence  that she had made them aware of it any sooner. 
However, even if they had been  aware of her illness sooner,  I dont think  there was any 
additional support that they could  have offered to her at the time, nor did Ms D ask for any 
specific additional support. Barclaycard have added the details  to Ms Ds file for future 
reference, so I dont think they need to do anything further in this respect.
Ms D said she did not receive the replacement card for the card that was blocked prior to her 
travelling abroad.  While I appreciate that Ms D says she didnt receive the card,  
Barclaycards internal system notes show that the letter was correctly addressed and sent to 
the address they hold on record for Ms D. So, I cant hold Barclaycard responsible for the 
letter not reaching its destination.  
Ms D told us that her card was not involved in the data breach and should never have been 
blocked. However, Barclaycard have told us they were notified that Ms Ds card details could 
have been compromised due to a third-party  data breach. They therefore blocked her card to 
protect her account against fraud.
I dont think Barclaycard have done  anything wrong here. They were trying  to protect Ms Ds 
account in case  it had been  compromised and they contacted  her using the details they held 
on her file to advise of the action they had taken. Ms D would have also heard the recorded 
message on the automated telephone line about the new cards being  issued when she 
contacted Barclaycard at the end of September 2018.
Ms D says that Barclaycard put the wrong details on the original emergency cash transfer, 
so she had to travel to several different locations to receive the cash.  But Barclaycard said 
they were not made aware of any errors  with the processing of the emergency cash. 
Having looked  into this matter further, it seems the initial issue  with the process of the 
emergency cash advance  was because the card number Barclaycard provided to the third-
party was either  incorrect or hadnt  been activated. The new card had not been activated  by 
Ms D before she travelled abroad  so this is consistent with why the initial transfer  didnt 
work. 
Ref: DRN12106595However, the matter  was rectified, and Ms D was able to collect  the emergency  cash on the 
same day. Barclaycards original payment of £200  to Ms D included money to cover some  of 
her taxi fares and I can see that this aspect of the complaint was considered  as part of that 
payment. As such, I am not going to ask Barclaycard to do anything more  in relation to the 
taxi fares.
Ive carefully considered  everything Ms D has said,  however, having done so Ive reached 
the same  conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
My final decision  
For the reasons  Ive given above  and those detailed in my provisional decision, I uphold  this 
complaint in part. 
I direct  Barclays Bank UK PLC to; 
make  an additional  payment  of £100  to Ms D to reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience the level of service she received in many  of the phone calls caused  
her. This is in addition to the £200 that was previously paid to Ms D. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 October  2020.
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1210659