K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that his insurance broker, Gauntlet  Risk Management  Ltd, failed to pass  on 
information to his insurer and this eventually  resulted in the insurer voiding his landlord  
insurance policy when  he tried to make  a claim following a fire.
background
In 2011, Mr C asked  Gauntlet to arrange insurance for two commercial premises  which  he 
owned and which were let to commercial  tenants.  Gauntlet asked  for information about the 
premises. Mr C explained that one of the premises (which  from now on Ill refer to as the 
property) operated as a Chinese restaurant. Gauntlet arranged  cover with a particular 
insurer (which Ill call Z).
In June 2012, when the policy  renewed, Mr C advised Gauntlet that the propertys use had 
changed to a shisha caf. However,  when Gauntlet notified the insurer it described the new 
business as a coffee shop.
The policy continued  to renew each year until 2016, when there was a fire at the property.  
Mr C made  a claim. After  investigating, however, Z refused to pay the claim and voided  the 
policy. It said that it hadnt been  aware there was a shisha caf operating from the property. 
Crucially, it said that if it had been  made  aware, it would have asked for additional 
information which would have led to it discovering  the following:
a)A non-temporary  structure  had been  erected at the rear of the property which was of 
non-standard construction  and comprised combustible materials;
b)Smoking materials and other combustible materials were used and/or stored within  the 
structure;
c)The structure was heated by means  of portable LPG heaters  and the associated  gas 
cylinder was stored at the property;
d)Planning permission for the structure had not been obtained.
Z said that the above factors, singularly and/or cumulatively would have influenced the 
underwriting decision and would  have  led to it declining  to offer cover.
Mr C complained to Z about  its decision. When it maintained its position, he referred his 
complaint to us. Our investigator recommended  the complaint should not be upheld.  She 
considered Z had acted  fairly. Mr C didnt appeal against the investigators  recommendation.
Mr C complained to Gauntlet that it had failed to accurately pass  on to Z the information 
about the propertys change of use. He felt that if it had done so then the issues would have 
been resolved  at that point and he would have been able to obtain insurance,  from Z or 
elsewhere, and therefore  be protected against  the loss from the fire. Gauntlet acknowledged 
it had made  an error. However, it said that Z didnt automatically refuse to insure a shisha 
caf and had voided the policy because of other non-disclosed  information for which  Mr C 
was responsible.
Mr C was unhappy at Gauntlets response. He referred this second  complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to not uphold  this complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
Ref: DRN14065232Its not in dispute  that Gauntlet made  an error in its administration  of Mr Cs policy. It 
accepts that he clearly told it of the propertys change of use to a shisha caf and it failed to 
pass on this information  to Z. Mr C didnt appeal against the investigators view, on the 
earlier complaint, that Z acted fairly from which I infer that he accepts it was within  its rights 
to void his policy. While I wont revisit the complaint against Z, I do need to consider aspects 
of its actions and particularly how these would have  potentially  changed  had Gauntlet  acted  
differently. Because what I need  to determine now is whether  that error by Gauntlet led to 
Mr C suffering a loss which he otherwise wouldnt have.
Before I consider whether this might  be the case,  I will first of all go over some of the 
background to this matter and consider Mr Cs own responsibilities.
During 2011, Mr C agreed to allow the existing tenant to assign the lease  to someone else.  
The new tenant  later told Mr C he wanted  to operate a shisha caf at the property. Mr C 
says he agreed to this provided the tenant gained any necessary consent and complied with 
any relevant regulations.
In March 2012, three months before Mr C notified  Gauntlet of the change of use, Mr C 
received a letter from the council saying a marquee had been erected at the rear of the 
property and this probably needed planning permission. Mr C went  to speak to the tenant  
and briefly looked at the marquee which he says he thought  looked  like a temporary 
structure. He told the tenant it was his responsibility  to sort out the planning  permission. He 
says he spoke to the council  in April 2012  and was told he didnt need to do anything about  it 
because the matter was being addressed  by the tenant. He says the tenant later assured 
him over the telephone that everything  was in hand.  Mr C says he heard nothing more  and 
assumed the matter  had been  resolved.
In fact, it hadnt been resolved. The tenant applied for planning permission  for the rear 
structure and the council  refused this in May 2012.  It appears  that the tenant retained  the 
structure nonetheless and continued  operating. In February 2014, the tenant submitted  a 
new planning application  which sought to alter the design and construction  of the structure, 
including the replacement of the tented roof with a flat roof incorporating two layers  of 
acoustic boarding. This application was approved in April 2014. However, when the fire 
occurred nearly two years later the alterations  still hadnt been made, meaning the shisha 
caf was trading while in breach of planning  regulations. And it was in the rear structure that 
the fire started. It appears that Mr C knew about none of these developments.
Our investigator asked  Mr C to provide a copy of the lease. He provided a copy  of a lease 
agreement dated  July 2012  and signed  by the original tenant.  He explained that this had 
been drawn up because the earlier version of the lease signed by the tenant  in 2003 had 
been lost. He explained that the July 2012 lease was then immediately reassigned to the 
new tenant and provided a copy of this agreement, though it was not signed. This means 
that the new tenant had, with Mr Cs knowledge, taken over the property and started  
operating as a shisha  caf some months before Mr C attempted to put in place  a lease 
assignment agreement  and had apparently continued operating  until the time of the fire 
without any signed  agreement. 
I note from the lease agreement with the original tenant that the tenant must not make any 
alterations to the premises, or any application  for planning permission, unless he obtains the 
consent of the landlord. The tenant  furthermore must  not carry out any development until all 
necessary planning permissions have  been obtained and presented  to the landlord  and the 
landlord has confirmed  that these are acceptable.  
Ref: DRN14065233So, when Mr C told Gauntlet in June 2012  of the change of use to a shisha caf, he was 
aware of the tented structure which had been  erected at the rear of the property and that this 
needed planning permission. I consider that even  an unsophisticated consumer, which  Mr C 
claims to be, should reasonably have known  that this would be an important change to the 
insurance risk which the insurer would need to know about. However, I have seen no 
evidence that Mr C mentioned this structure  to Gauntlet so that it could, in turn, notify Z. 
Mr C described  the nature  of the property  to be insured by answering questions  when he first 
bought cover from Z. I further note that Mr C was sent renewal documents each year which 
included a Statement of Fact which he was instructed to check. This Statement  of Fact said 
that the walls of the property were built only of brick, stone  or concrete and roofed only with 
slates, tiles, asphalt,  concrete, metal or other incombustible materials. Mr C would have 
known this statement  to be incorrect and was required to notify his insurer of any changes to 
the answers hed given  previously about  the fundamental structure of the property being 
insured. However,  he didnt notify Gauntlet of this change so that it could advise Z.
To be clear, the structure of the premises is fundamental to the risk being insured. Mr C was 
aware, three  months  before renewal in 2012,  that the structure had changed to such an 
extent that planning permission was required. He failed to notify  his insurer of this basic  
change, or to properly establish  whether it had been  completed properly in so far as formal 
planning was concerned.  Mr C might  argue  that he didnt mention the tented structure to 
Gauntlet because  he understood it to be temporary.  However, I would consider this to be 
extremely careless on his part. He had the means  and the authority to find out whether it had 
either received that planning  permission  or had been removed.  He chose not to investigate 
the matter any further either then or over the next four years  with the consequence that Z 
remained unaware of the structure until the fire occurred.
As a result, Im clear  that Mr C should have brought  the tented structure to Gauntlets  
attention so it could in turn bring  this to the attention of Z. Z has already provided evidence  to 
show that if it had been  aware of the structure it would have refused to provide cover. Im 
therefore satisfied  that Mr C is himself at fault for failing to disclose information  which  would 
have revealed  that his insurance policy was invalid. And his error  occurred  before  any failing 
on the part of Gauntlet. 
The question then arises  whether, as a broker service, there was something that Gauntlet 
should have done which would have remedied  Mr Cs own error. So I will now turn to what  
would have happened if Gauntlet  hadnt  made  its error.
Z has confirmed that if it had known  of the correct  change  of use, it wouldnt have 
automatically declined  cover.  However, it said that a shisha  caf has particular risks 
associated with it and so it would have made further  enquiries of Mr C. These enquiries 
would have related to, for example, the storage  of smoking materials  and other  combustible  
materials; the presence of any non-permanent  and/or permanent structures and the 
materials from which they were constructed; and the type of heating  used for any such 
structure. Mr C contests  that if Z had made  these  enquiries then he would have been alerted 
to make his own enquiries and resolve  the issues.
Our investigator accepted Zs explanation of what it would have done and Mr C didnt appeal  
against the investigators findings. However, I havent seen evidence  to persuade me that Z 
would definitely  have made  these  further  enquiries.  I agree that it might  have done so but its 
far from conclusive  that it would have.  
Ref: DRN14065234Mr C has said that, in any case, he was relying  on Gauntlets expertise. He says it should 
have known that a shisha  caf would present special risks for an insurer and so should have 
independently asked him appropriate questions to make sure necessary information was 
provided to Z. The insurer makes its own decisions about its approach  to risk and insurers  
differ in their views and what might  be called their risk appetite.  This is contained within  
detailed internal, and commercially sensitive, documents which explain the insurers 
approach to underwriting risks,  and how they calculate premiums. This isnt something which  
a broker has access to or which Id expect  a broker to know  about in any detail. And Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest otherwise in this particular case, including  that Gauntlet should  
have been aware  that an insurer might have a specific underwriting concern about  possible 
risks associated with shisha cafes. And given that I havent seen evidence to persuade me 
that Z would necessarily have made  further  enquiries before agreeing to insure a shisha 
caf, I cant reasonably  conclude  that Gauntlet should  have made its own enquiries with 
Mr C.
So, in all the circumstances  of this case I dont think that Gauntlet was at fault other  than in 
how it described the property use and I also dont  think that error  is likely to have made a 
difference to the outcome of the claim.  Im not convinced that extra  questions  would  have 
been asked which Mr C relies on to make his case against Gauntlet. 
Even if I were satisfied that following the correct notification of the change  of use to a shisha 
caf Mr C would have  been asked further questions by Z or should have been asked these 
by Gauntlet, I dont necessarily think it would have  led to the various issues being  revealed 
and resolved.
Thats because,  based on the evidence relating to the lease and planning permission, it 
seems to me that Mr C tended not to take a close interest in the property and was somewhat 
careless in protecting his legal interests.  He failed to apply the terms of the lease to ensure 
his tenant was operating within planning regulations and instead  was happy to rely on 
assurances from the tenant to this effect,  even after potential issues  had been highlighted. 
And hes explained it was the client who ultimately bore the cost of the insurance policy.  I 
therefore think it is likely he would have  asked the tenant for the answers to the questions 
and that he would have again been  happy  to rely on any assurances  given  by his tenant. 
Given that the tenant was apparently prepared to knowingly operate  without planning 
permission for the rear structure, and to mislead Mr C about this matter,  I see no reason why 
the tenant would have  acted with any greater care when it came to the insurance policy.  
Even if issues had come  to light, the tenant  may have given the necessary assurances about  
its operation to ensure that cover  was eventually obtained, either  from Z or another provider, 
regardless of the accuracy of those assurances.
Z has provided evidence to show that the composition of the rear structure was a sufficient 
reason in itself for it to have refused  cover. I have  seen  no evidence  that Mr C would have 
been able to obtain cover from another insurer without changes to that rear structure. 
Ultimately, to find that Gauntlets failings made  a difference  to the outcome, I would have to 
be persuaded not only that Gauntlet  and/or  Z should/would  have  made further enquiries of 
Mr C but also that these enquiries  would have led to the identification of risks at the property 
and to Mr C ensuring that his tenant  took mitigating  action to reduce those  risks, including  
through alterations to the rear structure, so that either Z or another insurer  was prepared to 
provide cover. While  I cant  rule out that this would have happened  if further  enquiries  had 
been made, I think it is making too many  assumptions about  actions which  Mr C and his 
tenant would  have taken, which run counter to the demonstrated behaviour  of each of them.
Ref: DRN14065235Therefore, even if I was satisfied that Gauntlets correct  actions  would have resulted in Mr C 
answering further questions from either it or Z, I still couldnt reasonably conclude that this 
would have led to the various issues at the property being identified and resolved before the 
fire occurred.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that Mr C was originally at fault in this matter for failing to tell either 
Gauntlet or Z about the tented structure which he knew had been erected at the property. If 
he had done so, Im satisfied he would have immediately discovered that his insurance  was 
no longer valid.  Aside from that, I cant reasonably conclude that even if Gauntlet had told Z 
about the change to a shisha caf it would  have resulted in Z making further  enquiries of 
Mr C (or that Gauntlet should reasonably have been  expected  to have made  these enquiries 
itself). And even if Z or Gauntlet had made those further enquiries, I cant  reasonably 
conclude that this would have resulted in the various issues  at the property being revealed 
and resolved.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Neither Mr C nor Gauntlet offered any comment on my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr C nor Gauntlet  offered any comment on my provisional decision, I see 
no reason to change  that decision.  I dont  uphold the complaint for the reasons I have 
already explained.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1406523