K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) didnt treat them  fairly when 
dealing with their mortgage. They want an audit of the account and compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out an interest only mortgage with BOS  in 2009 through a broker  and 
paid it off in full in 2018.  They said that the repayment arrangements werent fully explained 
to them  and that they couldnt get an explanation for issues  about the conduct of the 
account. Mr S said that he had been made redundant  and the mortgage  got into arrears, and 
his repayment  plan was refused. Mr and Mrs S said that they managed to resolve the 
situation, but felt that BOS didnt help.  Mr and Mrs S believed that theyd been overcharged.
Mr and Mrs S complained to BOS.  It said it had given them  annual  statements and the 
reason why the monthly payment increased significantly was due to the arrears. BOS noted  
that the mortgage had been due to be paid in full in 2013, and the monthly  payment was 
later reduced to reflect overpayments received after the arrears  were cleared in 2014.  It 
pointed out that the mortgage wasnt paid until five years  after it was due to be redeemed  
and the term had ended;  BOS felt it had supported  Mr and Mrs S and noted once the term 
ended, it was entitled to issue possession proceedings.  BOS paid £100 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by Mr and Mrs S confusion. It separately reviewed customers 
accounts and refunded  some arrears management fees to Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us. BOS explained that the amount of arrears caused the 
mortgage balance  to exceed  the limit for interest  only mortgages,  which  was why the 
mortgage moved to repayment for the rest of the term. It said it recalculated the monthly  
payment in 2016 at Mr and Mrs S request after the arrears were cleared,  which was why it 
then reduced.  It also provided evidence of a payment arrangement ending in 2011 and 
Mr and Mrs S being asked to agree a new one.
The adjudicators view was that the mortgage  term and the fixed  interest  rate was due to end 
in 2013, and this was set out clearly  in the mortgage offer accepted  by Mr and Mrs S. The 
arrears started in 2010 and werent  cleared until 2014, and the adjudicator  explained that 
part of the increased monthly  payment was to deal with the arrears  He also explained  that 
the refund  of arrears management  fees was connected to a review by lenders generally. The 
adjudicator thought that BOS had charged  the right amount each  month and notified 
Mr and Mrs S of any changes, but said this service didnt audit accounts (which an 
accountant could  do). He also noted  that arrears generally would affect  Mr and Mrs S credit 
records, but lenders  were  required  to report the position. The adjudicator didnt uphold the 
complaint and commented that he didnt think BOS  had done anything  wrong.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said if the arrears were cleared in 2014, the monthly payment 
shouldve reduced  then (not in 2016). BOS explained that the overpayments  were used to 
reduce the balance. It also sent a copy of the statements  sent to Mr and Mrs S at the time. 
The adjudicator said that BOS confirmed  that monthly payments were  only changed if the 
interest rate changed or if a customer asked for a change, and customers  were able to make 
overpayments. He noted that Mr and Mrs S were  making overpayments  to clear the arrears  
and continued  to do so after theyd been  cleared. The adjudicator pointed out that theyd 
been sent statements showing them what was happening to the money and when  
Mr and Mrs S asked  to reduce the payment in 2016, BOS agreed. Mr and Mrs S said the 
payments were made  to avoid repossession, and that BOS had driven them  to despair.
Ref: DRN19483592my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This service isnt a forensic accounting 
service, and its up to Mr and Mrs S whether they want  to instruct a specialist accountant.
Mr and Mrs S feel that BOS didnt treat them fairly when they were in financial difficulties. 
But having  looked at the evidence available to me, I cant agree. The mortgage got into 
arrears and then ended in 2013; payment in full (to which Mr and Mrs S agreed when they 
accepted the mortgage  offer) wasnt made. It isnt unfair to require payment in full, 
particularly once the mortgage term ends,  but lenders are required to work with consumers. I 
can see evidence that a payment arrangement was agreed so BOS  did work with 
Mr and Mrs S; it isnt unfair to reject an offer from a consumer. It isnt unfair  for a lender to 
take action either when  theres arrears or when the mortgage term has ended.  I note that in 
the end Mr and Mrs S did manage  to find a solution and clear the arrears.
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy about  the monthly payment. Between  2014 and 2016, they point 
out that once the arrears cleared, the payment  couldve been  reduced. I agree. But theres  
no evidence that Mr and Mrs S asked for the payment to be reduced until 2016,  despite 
being sent statements and knowing that the arrears had been cleared. Mr and Mrs S havent  
provided any details  of such a request and theres  no evidence of such calls from BOS  file. 
And the money  was used to reduce the balance of the mortgage, which was to the 
advantage of Mr and Mrs S; they werent  overcharged and BOS didnt financially benefit.  
The monthly payments  before the arrears were cleared was agreed  in order to stop 
possession proceedings and to clear the arrears, and appear to reflect  the correct interest 
rate.
Mr and Mrs S have  referred to their credit records being damaged,  but havent provided  
evidence or details. But mortgage  arrears  can have a significant  impact on credit records,  
and Mr and Mrs S accept that they were in arrears.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 December  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1948359