K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Virgin Money  plc removed  an interest free offer on his credit card 
account, even  though  it wasnt  his fault that he missed a payment. 
background
Mr C had a Virgin credit card, which hed used for a balance  transfer  with a 0% interest offer. 
The terms of the offer said that it would be withdrawn if the monthly minimum payment 
wasnt made on time, and Mr C set up a direct debit to ensure that happened. 
In or about October 2017 Mr C arranged to switch his current  account  provider. His October  
credit card statement said that payment would be due on 9 November. Virgin Money  didnt 
however receive  notification that the direct debit payment should be taken from his new 
account until the day before. By that time, it was too late to change  the payment 
arrangements and it sought  payment  from Mr Cs old account provider. That wasnt 
successful though, because there was no money in the old account by then. 
Subsequent payments were collected successfully from Mr Cs new bank account, but, 
because the November payment hadnt  been  made  on time, Virgin Money  withdrew the 
interest-free offer.  As a result,  Mr Cs monthly payments more than doubled.  
Mr C complained to Virgin  about  what had happened. He said hed found it difficult to get in 
touch, apparently because of technological difficulties with Virgin Money. Whatever  the 
reason, Mr C didnt complain until about five months  later. Virgin  Money acknowledged it 
hadnt handled things as well as it could  have done and offered Mr C £150  in recognition of 
that.  
Mr C didnt accept Virgin Moneys  and referred the matter to us. One of our adjudicators 
considered it and issued a preliminary  assessment recommending that Virgin  Money re-work 
the credit  card account as if the November 2017 payment had been made on time.  She also 
recommended that Virgin Money return any over-payments  (that is, payments in excess  of 
what would  have been due if the interest-free  offer had not been  removed),  together with 
interest at 8% a year, and that it pay Mr C a total of £400 in recognition of the distress he 
had suffered (to include the £150 already  offered).
Virgin Money accepted  most of the adjudicators  recommendations, but said that payment of 
a further £250 would be excessive. It asked that an ombudsman review  the case.            
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have accepted most of the adjudicators  recommendations, but I will  for 
completeness  include them in my award.  The issue on which Virgin  Money disagrees is 
the level of compensation for non-financial loss. Virgin Money  thinks its original offer of £150 
is fair, but adjudicator recommended an additional  £250. 
Mr C explained to Virgin Money very early on why his personal circumstances meant that 
this issue was causing him additional  distress. Whilst, strictly speaking, it was Mr Cs 
Ref: DRN13389722responsibility to ensure  that his direct  debit was transferred  in time, I think  Virgin  Money 
ought to have acknowledged that this wasnt completely straightforward; the only way Mr C 
could have been sure that his bill would be paid was by leaving sufficient funds in both 
accounts to meet the minimum payment. I dont think Virgin Moneys handling  of this 
recognised that or, more importantly, the impact of the problem on Mr C personally. For 
those reasons I agree that the adjudicators recommendation  whilst  perhaps towards the 
higher end of what I might  recommend   is fair in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Ms complaint, Virgin  Money plc should:
re-work his credit card account  as if the interest-free offer had continued to apply after 
November 2017  that is, as if the minimum payment  due on 9 November 2017 had 
been made  on time;
to the extent that Mr C has paid more than the minimum payments that would have 
been due after the adjustment above,  pay those additional  payments to Mr C; 
pay interest at 8% a year simple on those  additional  payments from the date they were 
made by Mr C until payment;  and 
pay Mr C £400 in recognition of the distress  this has caused him and the inconvenience 
to which he has been  put (that sum to include any compensation already paid).      
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
 
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1338972