K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that she was mis-sold a Privilege  Account (PA) and a Privilege Premier 
Account (PPA) by The Co-operative Bank  Plc (Co-op Bank). 
background
Ms J took out a fee free bank account with Co-op Bank before 2000.
Ms J took out a PA in January 2003  for a monthly fee of £6; and she took out a PPA in June 
2007 for a monthly fee of £12.
Ms J says Co-op Bank  recommended she take out the PA and the PPA,  but they werent 
right for her.
Our adjudicator looked into Ms Js complaint and decided that Co-op Bank didnt do anything  
wrong in selling the PA or the PPA. Ms J disagrees  so the complaint has come  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Ms Js complaint.
Ms J says she was pressurised into taking the accounts  as she was told she had to take the 
PA and PPA because  it would be difficult to get an overdraft  without them. 
So I will consider first if Ms J knew she had a choice  whether to take out the PA and the PPA 
or not and whether she chose to do so.
In my view I think she did. I say this for the following reasons. The PA and PPA are substantial  
products so Im sure it wouldve taken Co-op Bank  some time to explain them  on each 
occasion. And I can see how this could have  felt like pressure to Ms J. But Ms J had 
previously had a fee free account  with an overdraft so I think its more  likely than not that she 
knew these were available from the Co-op  and other financial institutions.  And while the 
overdraft facilities Co-op Bank  offered on the PA and PPA were cheaper than overdrafts on 
their current  accounts, the decision whether to offer Ms J an overdraft on any account 
wouldve been based on her credit rating and not on the product she was using. 
So I think its more likely  than not that Ms Js memory is mistaken on what Co-op  Bank said 
about the overdraft facility  which  is understandable  after all these years. And I think  when Ms J 
took out the PA and the PPA she knew  she had a choice and chose to take them out. I will go 
on later to consider  whether she was able to make an informed choice each time and consider 
the issues Ms J has raised  about  whether the accounts were right for her.
Ms J says she talked to Co-op  Bank  and it recommended  that she opened the PA in 2003  
and the PPA in 2007. Co-op Bank says that these  were  non-advised sales,  by which it 
means that it didnt  recommend them to Ms J personally or advise  her to take them  out. 
Ref: DRN19839412I dont know what was said during the sales, but Ive not seen anything such as records of 
discussions about Ms Js needs  and circumstances  on each occasion or suitability checks  to 
show me clearly that it did make  personal recommendations to her. I accept its possible that 
in providing information to Ms J and explaining the benefits of the PA and the PPA,  the Co-
op Bank may have  said or implied  that it was a good  idea to take them out. But this isnt the 
same as making personal recommendations. And based on this services  knowledge of Co-
op Banks sales practices at the time of each sale, I think its more likely  than not that Co-op 
Bank sold the PA and PPA to Ms J on an information only basis  on both occasions. 
This means  Co-op Bank did not have to ensure that either the PA or the PPA was suitable  for 
Ms J, but it did have to provide Ms J with good enough information about both so she could 
make an informed decision about whether to have them or not.
I dont know what information Co-op Bank gave to Ms J. But Co-op Bank was trying to sell her 
the PA and PPA so I think its more likely than not that it gave a substantial verbal explanation 
of the products and then followed this up with detailed  documentation.
The PA benefits  included worldwide travel insurance, a range of discounted products and 
services and preferential  rates  on overdrafts. The PPA in 2007 had the additional benefit of car 
breakdown cover. 
At the time of the PA sale Ms J says she was travelling more than 3 times a year, and she 
regularly ran an overdraft.  And she has confirmed  that the travel insurance and overdraft 
facility were of interest to her. She also had a car, so I can see how the car breakdown cover 
in the PPA wouldve been of interest to her too. So, even if Co-op Bank  didnt provide Ms J 
with all the information about the PA and the PPA, I think its more likely than not that she was 
given enough  information about the PA and the PPAs  benefits  for her to decide to take them 
out. As this was an information only sale, it was then up to Ms J if, and how, she used the 
benefits.
Miss J has said that she only took out the products because she believed the travel 
insurance would cover her for business travel and Co-op bank didnt highlight to her that it 
didnt.
Ive looked at the travel insurance  policies  which I believe were attached to the PA and PPA 
and they dont appear to exclude  personal  cover during business travel. But there are 
detailed limitations  on dangerous  manual labour  activities  and business property. These are 
not things Id expect to be highlighted in the usual  standard of summary a seller might  
provide with a travel  insurance policy. And Ms J was buying the policy  on an information  only 
basis so Co-op Bank wasnt required to check what  she needed. So, in my view it was for 
Ms J to read the policy  to see if she was covered for the circumstances she might  need on 
her business  travel.
So overall I think its more  likely  than not that Co-op  Bank provided Ms J with sufficient 
information to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the PA and the PPA, and 
Ms J chose to take them out.  And  there wasnt anything that Co-op Bank didnt  tell her that 
wouldve caused her not to do so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Js complaint.
Ref: DRN19839413Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1983941