K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) have treated her 
unfairly when handling  a claim she made under her car insurance.
background
In June 2018 Mrs H was reversing from a parking bay when she collided with a vehicle  
driving down the aisle of the car park. Mrs H said the driver drove  at a high speed and on the 
wrong side of the road at the time which is why she didnt  see him.
Mrs H made  a claim with LV, and she provided photos from the time. LV looked into this 
claim and said she was at fault.  It said the photos showed her car was attempting to reverse  
from a parking bay, and she would be expected to stop for any hazards  approaching,  as well 
as check in both directions  for any traffic or pedestrians. So LV said, because  the third party 
was in the aisle and had right of way, the duty of care was on her to ensure it was safe to 
reverse.
Mrs H complained and said LV should  have accepted this accident  wasnt  her fault. She said 
LV had not fought for its clients rights, and unfairly  sided with the third party  driver because  
she is from another country.  
Mrs H brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the case  and didnt 
uphold it. She said she felt LVs decision was reasonable based on the evidence available  
and the Highway Code. The investigator said it was Mrs Hs responsibility to check  if there 
were any obstructions  or road users around  before  reversing. She also said while the third 
party driver had crossed over the road lane, it was likely  this was because  he himself was 
parking, so this wouldnt show  he was at fault.
Overall the investigator  said shed  seen no evidence of LV handling the claim unfairly, or 
with any bias.
Mrs H disagreed, and said LV had made  its decision prior to seeing  her photos which 
showed it wasnt interested in fighting for her case. She said LV had incorrectly said the third 
party vehicle was reversing into a space next to her, and ignored the speed he was travelling 
at. Mrs H also said she saw the vehicle from the main road but hadnt expected him to travel  
on her side of the road as she was relying on the Highway Code.
Because Mrs H disagreed, the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Under the General Conditions of Mrs Hs policy it says LV is entitled  to have total control to 
conduct, defend and settle any claim
Ref: DRN19351462This means  it is up to LV to decide whether it settles or defends a claim. So in this case I 
have to consider  if LV handled  this claim fairly and in line with the policy terms  not the 
liability of the claim  itself.
Mrs H hasnt disputed that she didnt see the third party vehicle when reversing. And she has 
given a number  of reasons to explain why this was the case  related to the third party 
vehicles road position  and speed.
LV put Mrs Hs concerns to the third partys insurer soon after the accident.  But the third 
party insurer  said it still felt the duty of care was with Mrs H to check  all of her mirrors while  
reversing so it considered her at fault.
LV decided to settle the claim and record Mrs H at fault for the accident. From what  Ive seen 
ultimately the other driver  had the right of way while she was reversing, so the greater duty 
of care was with Mrs H to ensure it was safe before proceeding  with the manoeuvre. So Im 
satisfied LVs decision to settle  this claim was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs H has raised  concerns about LVs interest in fighting her case, and its motivations for 
settling the claim as it did. As Ive said, it is LVs decision whether to settle a claim.  And Ive 
seen nothing to suggest LV hasnt investigated and handled this claim fairly.
Overall I think  LV has handled  this claim fairly, and Im not asking it to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1935146