K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that National Westminster Bank plc mis-sold  them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) in connection with their mortgage. 
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with NatWest on the telephone. At the same time 
they took out PPI to cover Mr Bs income and protect their mortgage in the event Mr B 
couldnt work through accident, sickness or if he lost his job.
The policy cost £107 per month and provided a benefit of £2100 per month,  which 
approximately covered Mr and Mrs Bs monthly  mortgage payment.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage ended in April 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. The adjudicator said the evidence 
showed that Mr and Mrs B chose  to take out the PPI and there was nothing to indicate theyd 
lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs B disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
NatWest says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs B personally  or advise them to take it. And based on this services 
knowledge of NatWests sales practices at the time, and what Ive seen in this case, I think its 
more likely than not that the sale was non advised.  This means NatWest did not have to 
ensure that the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B, but they did have to provide  Mr and Mrs 
B with good  enough information about the policy so they could make  an informed decision 
about whether  to have it.
did NatWest make it clear to Mr and Mrs B  that  they had a choice about PPI?
Mr and Mrs B say they hadnt  realised theyd been  given  the PPI until many  years after the 
mortgage and PPI were  closed.
The PPI policy was sold in April 2000. Both NatWest  and Mr and Mrs B say the policy was 
sold on the phone but there is no record of what was said.  I have the mortgage application 
form and the policy  document  from the time of sale and I have figures from NatWest about 
the dates, cost and duration of the loan and the PPI. 
I accept it is possible NatWest didnt  give Mr and Mrs B a choice about  taking  PPI. I also 
accept it is possible NatWest gave  them the impression they had to take it out or just gave it to 
Ref: DRN19549932them anyway. But it seems to me more  likely  NatWest gave Mr and Mrs B the opportunity  to 
take out the policy or decline it as part of their mortgage application, and that they chose to 
take it out, but have simply forgotten in the years that have now elapsed. I say this because, 
the mortgage application form shows that they wanted PPI and both Mr and Mrs B have 
signed it. Also, had they chosen  not to purchase PPI, or had it been  added to their account 
without either their knowledge  or consent, I wouldve expected them  to query  or challenge  this 
soon afterwards. I think they would have noticed that the PPI cost made their monthly 
repayments shown  on their statements £107  higher than the monthly cost of the advance  they 
would have received in their mortgage offer. 
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint) it is more  
likely than not NatWest  presented  the policy to Mr and Mrs B as compulsory or that it didnt 
tell them  about  the policy at all.
So I think that Mr and Mrs B chose to take out the PPI based on the information  NatWest 
provided to them.
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs B properly informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs B lost out?
I dont have enough evidence to know what information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs B about 
the PPI. For example whether  the policys costs and benefits were made clear to them  and if 
they were told about the significant exclusions and limitations of cover.  I find it unlikely Mr 
and Mrs B took the cover out without knowing anything  about it, but I dont  know  if they 
received everything  they needed to know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done.  I accept Mr 
and Mrs B may not have been treated fairly and reasonably.
But I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out as a result. I say this because  I find it unlikely 
that Mr and Mrs B would have acted  differently  and not gone  ahead with the cover  if 
NatWest had done more. My reasons  are as follows:
Mr B was eligible for the cover and all its benefits
Mr B was employed  and in reasonable health  at the time,  so it doesnt appear he would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of his cover  such  as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms. I note that Mr B 
had high blood pressure, but he says he had had no time off work for it and it didnt 
affect his day to day life. So I dont think knowing that pre-existing medical  conditions  
were excluded  from the policy would have stopped him buying the PPI.
I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have agreed to something  without having some 
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it solely on 
the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to them  because  at approximately  £107  
per month, it appears to have been  affordable  for them  on their income.
Mr and Mrs B have  argued that because Mr B had substantial  savings, family support, other 
insurance cover, and some sickness pay entitlement from his employer that they didnt need 
the PPI. But it was for them  to decide,  based  on the information they were given, whether they 
wanted the PPI. I think the PPI would have  been useful to them as it paid out in addition  to Mr 
Bs sick pay and for longer. It also covered him if he lost his job, meant they might not have to 
use their savings and provided some  protection against losing the property  theyd invested  in. 
Ref: DRN19549933So they had reason to choose to take the PPI, and I dont think there was anything  that 
NatWest failed to tell them that would  have caused  them not to decide to purchase it.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
and Mrs B may not have been treated fairly and reasonably by NatWest in its dealings with 
them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because, on balance,  for the reasons Ive detailed 
above, I think Mr and Mrs B would have been in the same  position if NatWest had done 
more and properly  informed them - I think they would  have  still taken out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs B have not lost out as a result  of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1954993