K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund three  disputed  
transactions made from her current account. 
background
Mrs E says three fraudulent transactions totalling £6,544 were made from her current  
account to an investment/trading company (Company 1) on 13 September  2017. 
On 16 April 2018, Mrs E contacted Barclays to report the disputed transactions as 
fraudulent. Mrs E said she didnt recognise  the transactions and she didnt make or 
otherwise authorise  them herself. 
In the table below Ive set out a timeline  of the disputed transactions alongside any other  
activity that I think is relevant to the outcome of this complaint: 
what Mrs E has said
Mrs E said none of the transactions to company 1 had been made by her. She said she had 
been at an ATM with her debit card six minutes  before the first transaction  took place. The 
main reason  she had been at the ATM was to change her PIN, but she may have also 
checked her balance at the same time. The card was in her possession at the time the 
transactions took place.
Mrs E pointed out that there were  a number of declined transactions in between the 
successful disputed transactions  the transactions were declined due to Mrs E having 
insufficient funds  in her account. Mrs E felt this was indicative of someone  trying to maximise 
the funds in the account who didnt know how much was available  and all parties are in 
agreement that she checked her balance six minutes prior to the first transaction  being 
made. Mrs E questions why she would  try to complete a transaction for more than she knew 
she had in her account. 
Mrs E also questioned why, if she was intending  to trade with the Company 1, she would 
send three  separate payments for different amounts during a matter of minutes.  She says 
she wouldve made one transaction  for the total amount  she intended to trade.
Mrs E said she frequently uses her Barclays Mobile  Banking App throughout the day to 
manage her Barclays accounts   she has five in total. She cant  remember if she did check  
Ref: DRN19501182the app on the day of the transactions but if she did, she may have been  checking the 
balance of her other accounts and not the account  in question. And so, she may not have 
noticed the transactions. Regardless,  Mrs E said she wasnt expecting any money to be 
missing so she wasnt looking out for it. Mrs E also pointed out that the app only shows the 
last few transactions made to due to the limited size of her phone screen. Mrs E said she 
only noticed the transactions when she had cause  to print her off statements over six months 
later in April 2018.
Mrs E had been making transactions to a similar  company (Company  2) during  the time the 
disputed transactions  took place. She later found out that Company 2 wasnt regulated to 
provide trading services in the UK. Following  some further research about Company 2, 
Mrs E realised they had connections with and operated out of the same building  as 
Company 1. Mrs E feels that her account details may have been shared between  the two 
companies.
what Barclays has said
Barclays has said it wont refund the disputed transactions to Mrs E. It said the transactions 
were authorised using  Mrs Es debit card details - including the sixteen-digit card number 
and the security code  on the back of her card. And Mrs E has confirmed the card was in her 
possession at the time she reported  the fraud.  Barclays  isnt aware of anyone else having 
access to it. 
Barclays also said the disputed transactions left Mrs Es account  following a £5,000 credit 
was transferred into it from one of Mrs Es other accounts. The transfer was completed using 
the Barclays Mobile Banking App. Barclays said it appeared that whoever made  the 
transactions was aware a large  credit had been paid into the account  to allow  the 
transactions to go through. And there is no suggestion that anyone  other  than Mrs E 
couldve transferred  these funds or otherwise knew about them.  
There was also a balance  enquiry  six minutes before the first disputed transaction  takes 
place. The balance  enquiry was completed  using Mrs Es genuine card and PIN. And Mrs E 
has confirmed that the balance  enquiry was likely made by her. 
Barclays pointed out that it had taken  Mrs E well over six months to complain about  the 
disputed transactions.  But the balance enquiry indicated that she was aware  of her balance 
at the time  shed also just credited £5,000 into the account. Mrs E also logged into her 
mobile banking  app, presumably to check her balance, on multiple occasions after the 
transactions had left her account  and reduced  her balance. And so, it felt Mrs E wouldve 
been aware of the transactions sooner than she says she was. The transactions  reduce her 
balance by over £6,500.  Barclays  feel Mrs E wouldve noticed had such  a significant amount 
gone missing. Especially given that the £5,000 credit into the account wouldve disappeared 
within an hour of it being  paid in.  
Barclays also point out that Mrs E had dealings with a similar company (Company 2) around 
the same  time as the disputed  transactions  and shed also requested  a refund  of these 
transactions via the chargeback scheme. 
For all of the above reasons Barclays declined to refund the disputed transactions  to Mrs E.
Ref: DRN19501183Mrs E didnt agree with Barclays  response to her complaint and she asked us to investigate.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt unable  to 
conclude that the transactions had been  made fraudulently and he was persuaded they were  
most likely authorised by Mrs E.
Mrs E asked for the investigators assessment to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to look into.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
our investigator previously set out  and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
authorisation
Generally, Barclays can hold Mrs E liable  for the disputed transactions if the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that she made them herself  or she authorised 
someone else to make  them on her behalf.
Im satisfied from Barclays technical  evidence that Mrs Es genuine card details  and 
security information was used to make the disputed  transactions. But the regulations 
relevant to this case say that this is not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold 
Mrs E liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests  that its more  
likely than not that Mrs E consented to the transactions.
From what  Ive seen, I think its reasonable for Barclays  to conclude  that Mrs E authorised 
the transactions herself. This is because:
The disputed transactions were made  online using Mrs Es genuine card details - the 
16 digit number on the front of the card, the expiry date and the 3 digit security code 
on the back of the card. It isnt in dispute  that Mrs E was in possession of her card at 
the time.  She acknowledges it was her that checked her balance at an ATM six 
minutes before the first disputed transaction left her account. Mrs E says no-one  else 
has access to her card details. And so, Im satisfied  that only Mrs E couldve entered  
her card details to allow the transactions to leave her account. 
Mrs E has said her card details may have been  shared without her permission by 
Company 2. She had genuinely provided her card details  to Company 2 in the days 
prior to the disputed  transactions  and Company 1 and 2 were based  in the same 
offices. Mrs E says a warning on the FCA website about this company supports this 
conclusion. But Im afraid I dont agree. 
I havent seen  any evidence that suggests to me that Mrs Es card details could have 
been shared and used  to make the disputed transactions. And Ive read the warning 
on the FCA website  that Mrs E has told us about.  This warning is specifically about  
the company in question not being  regulated in the UK to provide financial services. 
This is very different to deliberately sharing customer details to allow fraudulent  
transactions to take place. And I havent  seen anything to persuade me that this is 
Ref: DRN19501184what has happened here. And so, I think its more likely than not that Mrs E was in 
possession of the card at the time and made the transactions herself  although I 
appreciate that she may now have forgotten. I can see she was making  lots of similar 
transactions around the same  time.
Im satisfied  that it was Mrs E who checked  her account balance six minutes prior to 
the first transaction leaving the account  at 11.57am.  Theres  no suggestion that this 
couldve been anyone  else.  Ive taken on board what  Mrs E has said about  this being 
just a cursory check  as her intention  was to change her PIN, but Im still satisfied that 
its most  likely she wouldve been aware of her available balance at this time  it 
wouldve appeared on screen. 
The three disputed  transactions then leave her account between  12.03pm  and 
12.05pm, reducing her available balance by £6,544.  There  are then two successful 
mobile banking  logins  at 12.40pm and 12.42pm. Mrs E then transfers £5,000  into the 
account, from one of her other accounts, the next day at 8.41pm.
Ive seen no suggestion that anyone  other  than Mrs E had access  to her mobile 
banking details and all of the above  activity was completed from Mrs Es mobile 
number. Given the above, I think its more likely than not that Mrs E wouldve been 
aware of her available  balance  when she checked it at 11.57am.  And when she 
logged into Barclays Mobile Banking  App at 12.40pm and 12.42pm.  And had her 
balance reduced  by £6,544 in less than one hour,  I think  she wouldve noticed it and 
reported it to Barclays  straight away.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs E has said about managing  five accounts with 
her Barclays  Mobile Banking App  and not specifically checking  this account when 
she logged in. But even  if she hadnt  noticed these  transactions when she logged  in 
on 13 September, I think its reasonable to conclude  she wouldve noticed  the 
significant balance  reduction on 14 September when she transferred £5,000 into the 
account. 
Based on what I know about the Barclays Mobile Banking APP, the balance  of her 
account wouldve  been shown on her screen at this point.   And  if the £5,000 she had 
transferred into the account days before was no longer in the account,  her balance 
now being £95.60, I think Mrs E wouldve  noticed. Especially as she appears to have 
been transferring  another £5,000 into the account to top up her available balance  
again. 
I also cant ignore there are numerous  mobile banking  log-ins  following the disputed 
transactions leaving the account and Mrs E reported  the fraud over six months later.  
Had £6,544 gone missing  from Mrs Es account unexpectedly, I think  she wouldve 
noticed this and reported it to Barclays much sooner than she did. 
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mrs E authorised  the transactions.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ref: DRN19501185Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1950118