K821x#15complaint
Mrs L has complained  that an equity release  mortgage taken  out in 2001 and a further 
advance taken out in 2006  were mis-sold to her (and her late husband, Mr L) by Aviva  Equity  
Release UK Limited (Aviva). Mrs L is represented  in the complaint by a family  member, 
Mrs C. 
In a nutshell, Mrs C says that Mr and Mrs L didnt need the money borrowed from Aviva,  as 
they had sufficient resources of their own to be able to live comfortably. By taking out the 
equity release, because of the way this product  is structured, there have been long-term 
implications, not just for Mr and Mrs L but for the rest of the family.  
Mrs C has also complained about  the way Aviva calculates the early repayment  charge 
(ERC) on the mortgage, as it is related  to gilt yields. As a result,  its not transparent  and 
Mr and Mrs L were  unable  to move to a new property. In particular, when Mr and Mrs Ls 
daughter, Mrs S, was given the opportunity to move  to a desirable  location in 2012,  she 
decided not to do so because Mr and Mrs L said that they could not move home. This was, 
Mrs C argues, a direct  result  of Avivas lack of transparency about the ERC.
Mrs C says that the ERC has a significant impact  on her and her husbands (Mr Cs) 
available credit, as they have now bought the property from Mrs L. Mrs C says that she and 
her husband  have also had to pay £450  for a complex will to ensure Mrs L can stay in the 
property if Mr and Mrs C pass away. This is, Mrs C says, emotionally distressing.
Mrs C is also unhappy that Aviva took too long to respond to the complaint, sending  its 
response to Mrs L when Mr and Mrs C were on their honeymoon.  Mrs  C says shes  spent a 
significant amount  of time  about  100 hours  dealing with the complaint, as well as having 
to take time off work  to purchase the home  for herself and Mr C, to their own financial 
detriment. Mrs C has explained that Mrs L is very distressed about this matter  and regrets 
ever taking out the equity release mortgage.
background
On 30 October 2001, after taking advice from an Aviva representative, Mr and Mrs L took out 
an equity release mortgage. They  borrowed £14,950 at an interest rate of 8.25%. After 
deduction of fees, Mr and Mrs L received about  £13,500  into their building society account.  
Over the next five years, other  than one payment of £2,000, Mr and Mrs L made  modest 
monthly withdrawals, using the money for what appeared  to be general  expenses.
In 2006 Mr and Mrs L contacted Aviva  again  about  a further advance of £10,000. The 
documents compiled  at the time show that Mr and Mrs L told Aviva they wanted to top up 
their emergency fund, have enough money for holidays with their grandchildren and have 
extra income each  month.   The advance completed on 10 November 2006.
I am sorry  to note that Mr L passed  away in January 2018.  After his death,  Mrs C has 
explained that the family became aware  of the existence of the equity release loan. On 
behalf of Mrs L, in March  2018 a complaint was raised with Aviva that both the original 2001 
loan and the 2006 further advance were mis-sold.
The crux of the complaint is that Mrs L now regrets taking  out the equity release loan. 
Although annual statements were sent, Mrs L says that she didnt appreciate  that the 
Ref: DRN11534022amount borrowed  would escalate  through  compound interest. Consequently, Mrs C says that 
the two loans were  mis-sold.
Mrs C also says that she (that is, Mrs C) is not confident that [Mr and Mrs L] were provided  
with the full consequences of the loan, I have  seen that there are projections  of the loan and 
early repayment fee illustrated, however given the miss-givings of the consultation, I 
struggle to have  confidence that such information  was provided  (sic)
Mrs C is also concerned  that Aviva recorded that Mr and Mrs L were  on benefits, which 
wasnt correct. 
Mrs C doesnt feel Aviva provided Mr and Mrs L with the protection they needed. She says 
there was no independent scrutiny, for example, by an independent financial adviser,  of the 
advice given to Mr and Mrs L.
Mrs C says that, having now shown Mrs L how the interest accrues, this has caused Mrs L 
embarrassment, regret and significant upset. Mrs L feels that she has been duped  by 
Aviva. Mrs C remains unsatisfied that alternative options were  discussed with Mr and Mrs L, 
regardless of them having seen their own solicitor.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint, so it was brought to us. An investigator looked at the 
complaint. She was satisfied that the 2001 mortgage hadnt been  mis-sold. But she thought  
the 2006 further advance  should have been  arranged on a flexible drawdown facility, rather  
than as a lump sum. So she asked Aviva to refund interest on £6,350  which was he 
unused portion of the £10,000  for the period November 2006  to November 2013 (when 
those funds were finally  used).  She also asked Aviva to pay Mrs L £500 for distress and 
inconvenience, because  it hadnt arranged the further advance as a flexible drawdown.
Aviva didnt agree with this outcome. It explained that the original mortgage wasnt on a 
flexible drawdown  basis, and so any further advance had to be on the same terms as the 
original mortgage.  If Mr and Mrs L had wanted the further advance  on a flexible  basis,  theyd 
have needed to arrange the whole mortgage on that basis, but would incur an ERC  if theyd 
done so. Aviva also pointed out that equity  release  mortgages arent  designed for product 
switches.
A different investigator reconsidered  the complaint in the light of this new information. Having 
done so, he reached  a different conclusion  from the first investigator.  He agreed with her that 
the 2001 equity release hadnt been  mis-sold. But he thought  that the 2006 further advance 
hadnt been mis-sold  either. He noted Mrs Cs points about inaccuracies in the application, 
but said that Aviva was entitled to rely on what it had been  told by Mr and Mrs L.
Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She is unhappy that a flexible 
drawdown wasnt recommended  and questions  why Aviva didnt explore refinancing the 
whole mortgage  onto a flexible drawdown  in 2006 when the further advance was applied  for, 
as suggested  by the first investigator. She is unhappy that Aviva hasnt been able to say 
what the ERC would  have  been  in 2006 to redeem the original mortgage and take out a new 
flexible plan. 
Mrs C also says that Mr L could have cashed  in his private pension to pay the ERC, or 
money could have been borrowed from family and friends to do this, leaving Mr and Mrs L 
with a fresh start on a new flexible product.
Ref: DRN11534023Mrs C is also offended that Aviva suggested Mr and Mrs L should  consider making  a will, 
when they already had one. She remains upset that Aviva said Mr and Mrs L were in receipt 
of pension credit when they were not, because  she considers this might  have  influenced the 
advice given.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the available evidence is incomplete  
and/or contradictory,  we reach our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have 
happened, on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
I will begin by explaining  that, although  Mrs C is representing Mrs L, it is Mrs L who is 
Avivas customer  (or at least  was at the time of the events complained about). Mrs Cs role is 
to bring Mrs Ls complaint  in the same  way that other consumers might  instruct  a financial 
adviser, solicitor or accountant to represent  them in a complaint. But this does not entitle  
Mrs C to air her own grievances  about  Aviva, because she is not its customer;  her role is 
limited to putting forward Mrs Ls complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence  that Mrs C has expressed her own concerns about  
what she perceives to be Avivas failings  and the impact of this on her, Mr C and Mrs S. I do 
not doubt Mrs Cs strength of feeling  about  this. But because Mr and Mrs C and Mrs S are 
not Avivas customers,  this final decision  is limited to consideration only of Mrs Ls complaint 
that the advice  given  in 2001 and 2006 was unsuitable. So although I acknowledge  that 
decisions were made  by Mrs Ls family which they attribute  directly  or indirectly  to Aviva  
recommending the equity  release mortgage  and further advance   those arent issues  that 
can be taken into consideration here.
I will also explain that, although Ive read everything provided by both parties,  and listened to 
the available  call recordings, I wont be responding to each and every point raised by Mrs C. 
Instead Ill be concentrating  on what  I consider  to be the major  issues  in the complaint. No 
discourtesy is intended by this; it simply reflects the informal  nature of the ombudsman 
service and my role within  it. This means that I wont be commenting on issues that, in my 
opinion, arent  relevant  to the complaint, such as Mrs Cs concerns about Avivas  change of 
name from Norwich Union, the way the complaint has been  dealt with by Aviva, the time 
spent by Mrs C in bringing the complaint,  or her concerns about the way Aviva  structures  the 
ERC using  gilt yields. 
The starting point  here is the point of-sale documentation  from 2001 and 2006. The value of 
such documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what  was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; that notion  forms much of Mrs Cs argument, especially to do 
with the information recorded  by Aviva that Mr and Mrs L were on benefits.  
But where the consumers have signed to confirm that the information  is accurate, well 
generally attach some  weight to it. Its typically more reliable  than peoples  individual 
recollections (or, as here, the recollections  of others) at a distance of time which, although 
given in good faith, can sometimes  be inaccurate or contradictory. 
For Mrs C to say at this stage that information in the factfinds wasnt true is, effectively, to 
challenge the veracity  of the declarations Mr and Mrs L made.
Ref: DRN11534024The 2001  mortgage was sold before mortgages  (and mortgage advice) became regulated 
(which happened  on 31 October 2004). The advice given was subject to the Mortgage Code, 
a voluntary code  which Aviva subscribed  to.
The 2006  advance was subject to mortgage regulation and was sold in accordance  with the 
selling standards  of the time. But since 2014, selling standards have been far more stringent 
in terms of verification  of income and affordability.  Mrs C has made detailed representations  
about the requirements she and her husband  recently had to comply with when they were 
applying for a mortgage. Mrs C cant understand why Aviva wasnt  obliged to follow those 
regulations.
I note Mrs C accepts that her knowledge of mortgages and financial services generally is 
limited, and, with the greatest of respect,  I have to agree. As shes recently been through  a 
mortgage application, Mrs C has applied her own experiences relating to todays  regulatory  
standards to Mr and Mrs Ls equity  release  mortgage and further advance. But Mrs Cs 
comments about what she thinks Aviva  should have done in 2001  and 2006  based on 
todays selling standards and as a result  of Mrs C having recently been through  the 
application process for an entirely different type of mortgage  are not relevant to anything  
Aviva was required to do when selling an equity release mortgage in 2001 or a further 
advance in 2006. 
Ive looked at the documentation from 2001.  Im satisfied that this explains how the mortgage  
works, including the way interest accrues over the term. The documentation provides a 
detailed explanation of the ERC.  It also explains the circumstances in which the loan can be 
transferred onto another property. As is usual with this type of product, Aviva  required 
Mr and Mrs L to take independent  advice  before  it would agree to release the funds to them.
They consulted their own solicitor, who confirmed to Aviva that the terms and effects  of the 
equity release mortgage had been  explained to Mr and Mrs L. Im entitled to rely on that 
document, and conclude  that a full explanation  was given to Mr and Mrs L of how the equity 
release mortgage  worked  including compound interest, transferring the mortgage onto 
another property,  the circumstances in which an ERC might be payable  and how it would be 
calculated.
There is nothing in the information  gathered in the factfind to give me any cause for concern 
that the recommendation and advice  to take out an equity release  mortgage in 2001 was 
unsuitable. The amount borrowed was reasonable and proportionate to the equity in the 
property. Mr and Mrs Ls stated intentions  for spending the money were plausible  and 
indeed it appears  that over the next five years they used the money for the purposes they 
intended.
Im satisfied the 2001 equity release mortgage was not mis-sold.
With regard to the 2006 further advance, I agree with the second investigator that it wasnt  
possible for this to have  been arranged  as suggested by the first investigator  on a 
flexible drawdown  basis. Im sorry Mrs L was given  the impression that this could have been  
done. It was only after the second  investigator made further  enquiries  about this from Aviva  
that it transpired that a flexible drawdown was never  an option for the further advance.
Aviva hasnt been able to produce details of the amount of the ERC as it would have  been  in 
November 2006  to redeem the original equity release mortgage and take out a new flexible  
Ref: DRN11534025product. But this type of product isnt designed  to be refinanced or rearranged onto different  
products in the same way as a standard mortgage.
So I find nothing untoward or sinister  in the adviser not suggesting in 2006 that Mr and Mrs L 
should have refinanced their equity release mortgage or  as Mrs C has proposed  cashing  
in Mr Ls pension to pay any ERC.  For one thing, the product Mr and Mrs L were  on meant 
that any further advances had to be on the same  terms  as the 2001 mortgage. And I think 
that, given the likely cost of the ERC, if redeeming and refinancing had been Avivas  
recommendation, I think it is likely Id have considered  it to be unsuitable, given the potential 
costs involved.
Its correct that Mr and Mrs L didnt use all the £10,000 from the further advance  until 2013, 
but Aviva  couldnt  have  known that at the time of the application. I think Aviva was entitled to 
rely on the information provided by Mr and Mrs L as an accurate reflection of their 
circumstances and wishes.  
Mr and Mrs L told Aviva theyd need  £4,050 for holidays  for three  years, to top up their 
emergency fund with £2,100 and an extra £1,200  a year for expenses.  This doesnt  seem to 
me to be fanciful, extravagant or unnecessary  expenditure on the part of Mr and Mrs L. But 
in any event, its not the role of Aviva to tell its customers how to spend  their money once the 
advance has been paid to them. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the 2006 further  advance was not mis-sold. 
Theres nothing wrong in Aviva suggesting Mr and Mrs L might want to make a will. This is 
standard advice  for this type of customer.  Mrs C says Mr and Mrs L had already made their 
wills. But its usual with equity release  customers for advisers to remind  them of the 
prudence of making sure their wills are up to date.  And I note that on the 2001 factfind Aviva 
recorded that Mr and Mrs L said they had not made a will.
There was no obligation for Aviva  to recommend any independent  scrutiny  of the advice. It 
was always open  to Mr and Mrs L to consult another  financial adviser,  if theyd wanted  to. 
Indeed, for the original mortgage,  Mr and Mrs L did consult  a third party for independent 
advice. After receiving the advice  from their solicitor, they were happy  to proceed.  
And although Mrs C says reference  to pension credit was made in a contractual document, 
there is nothing in any of the contractual documents to show this is the case. (In this context, 
I think Mrs C might  be confusing documents compiled during the information-gathering  
process  which  are not contracts or legally-binding   with the actual mortgage and further 
advance contracts.)  Both advisers in 2001 and 2006  explored  whether or not Mr and Mrs L 
were in receipt of any benefits. Receipt of a lump sum can affect benefit entitlement, and so 
this is something Aviva  needed  to take into account.
I appreciate Mrs L now regrets ever taking out the mortgage. But in all the circumstances, 
having considered everything provided  by Mrs C and Aviva, Im satisfied  the mortgage and 
further advance  were not mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  This means  that I am not ordering Aviva 
Equity Release UK Limited  to pay any compensation for financial loss or distress and 
inconvenience to Mrs L.
Ref: DRN11534026Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
 
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1153402