K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that she was given unsuitable  advice  in 1991 by TSB to transfer her 
deferred benefits in an occupational pension scheme (OPS) to an appropriate  pension  plan 
(APP).
TSB later became part of Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds). 
  
background
Mrs M says she was advised by a TSB agent to transfer during a regular review. She says 
the TSB agent  told her the APP would  generate  higher returns. On 1 March1991  £2,641.26 
was transferred to the APP and invested in TSBs  Managed  Pension  Fund.  
Mrs M is disappointed with the performance of the APP and now thinks shed have  been  
better off staying in the OPS. 
Lloyds says no advice  was given in 1991.  It says the transfer  was done on an execution only 
basis.
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Ms complaint. But she didnt uphold it. In summary  
she said: 
Lloyds had only been able to provide very limited information.  Where information was 
missing and what happened wasnt agreed, findings  had been made based on what  
the investigator thought was more likely to have happened. 
Mrs M had signed a Confidential Financial  Appraisal  Form on 28 January 1991 
which recorded that no advice had been sought  or given and that Mrs M had 
specifically asked  for the product by name.  Mrs M had also signed to confirm  that the 
transaction was execution only.  
But that wasnt enough to be certain that the transaction was truly execution only. 
Mrs M didnt  have  the necessary investment knowledge or experience to decide if 
she should transfer her OPS  benefits  to an APP.
Mrs M had said she hadnt raised  the issue of transferring  TSBs  agent had brought  
it up during a regular  review. Mrs M had told us shed made her decision based  on 
that conversation  and the illustration provided. 
The OPS was a non contributory defined  contribution scheme with no guaranteed  
benefits. Mrs Ms fund was held in a deposit account. The OPS was ultimately wound 
up (in January  2015) and so Mrs M would have had to have  transferred.  
If Mrs M was willing to take some investment risk the TSB Managed  Pension Fund 
was appropriate.  But the OPS deposit account  wasnt consistent with Mrs Ms 
attitude to risk. TSBs  agent wasnt wrong to suggest  that the APP, with the fund 
invested in a manged fund, would offer better growth. 
Mrs M couldve switched to a different fund within the OPS.  But the fees for the OPS 
and the APP were similar  and there  was no initial adviser charge for transferring so it 
didnt seem Mrs M had suffered a financial loss because of the fees.
The APP wasnt unsuitable  but the fund hadnt performed as well as Mrs M had 
expected, based  on the illustration shed been given  returns  of about  13% pa 
hadnt been achieved. It wasnt unreasonable to expect that at the time  economic 
conditions were  very different in 1991  and expected growth rates  were  optimistic. 
Actual performance hadnt been  anywhere  near those levels. The illustration wasnt 
misleading but was based  on reasonable expectations at the time.
Ref: DRN19945192In summary, Mrs M hadnt suffered  a financial loss by transferring.  There  was nothing  
to suggest shed have been  better  off remaining  in the OPS. 
 
Lloyds accepted the adjudicators view and had nothing to add. 
Mrs M said shed  like an ombudsman to consider her complaint. She said she continued  to 
believe the advice  given by TSBs agent  wasnt in her best interests. She accepted  that, as 
the OPS was wound up, shed have had to transfer then but she maintained the APP had 
been mis sold. She was now in another large  OPS and she said shed have been better off 
transferring into that OPS.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions the investigator reached and for the reasons 
she gave. 
As the investigator  has said, given the time thats  elapsed, ascertaining exactly  what 
happened in 1991 is difficult.  The documentation  is limited and recollections may be less 
reliable now.
Theres a dispute  as to whether any advice was given.  If TSB didnt advise Mrs M then it 
wont be responsible  for the suitability of the APP. 
I agree  with the investigator that its somewhat unlikely that Mrs M would have decided, on 
her own and without  any advice, that she wanted  to transfer to an APP. Id generally  expect 
to see some level of knowledge and experience for a consumer to be confident  in making  
that sort of decision without advice. Btu Mrs M did sign to say shed made  her own decision 
and that she wasnt  seeking and hadnt been  given  any advice. I find that somewhat 
unusual, as is the fact that she apparently specifically  requested  the TSB product. And 
Mrs M has said advice  was given and that her decision to transfer was made on the basis  of 
what TSBs adviser told her. 
If I thought advice had been given then Id go on to consider if the advice was suitable.  I tend 
to agree with the investigator that transferring wasnt obviously unsuitable. Id point out that 
Mrs Ms OPS  benefits werent on a final salary basis but depended on an accrued fund 
value.   
And, even  if I did think transferring was unsuitable, Id still need to be satisfied that Mrs M 
had suffered a financial  loss by transferring. 
Mrs M expected her APP to be worth  over £50,000 when she reached age 55. Her APP fund 
value was £17,119.42 as at 1 March 2019  and £16,986.56 as at 1 March 2020.  As Mrs M is 
invested in a managed fund, the value of the fund can fluctuate based on changes to unit 
prices.
I agree  with the investigator as to why the projected  returns didnt materialise. I dont think,  at 
the time,  the growth  expectations were unreasonable, even if that now seems the case. So 
Im not going  to say that Mrs M has suffered  a loss in terms of what her APP is actually 
worth compared to what she thought  or had been  told - it might be worth. 
Ref: DRN19945193The transfer value  paid in January 1991 was £2,641. Weve been told, if Mrs M had 
remained in the OPS and invested  in the deposit account, her fund would have been  worth 
about £7,866 by January  2015 when the OPS was wound up and Mrs M would have had to 
have transferred out. On that basis  and looking at the APP fund values in March  2019 and 
2020  Mrs M hasnt suffered any loss by transferring  out of the OPS.  
Its possible, given  that her APP was invested  in a managed fund, that, had she remained in 
the OPS, shed have  switched  to a managed fund. We asked for a notional  fund value if 
shed have done that. But we werent  able to get one  only the notional value if shed have 
remained in the deposit fund which, as Ive said above, was £7,866.  And its unclear, if Mrs 
M had remained in her OPS, whether she wouldve switched funds and, if so, when. And, 
although I know Mrs M is disappointed with the performance of her APP, any managed fund 
that the OPS offered may have delivered a lower return  that the APP.  
Mrs M has mentioned that shes now a member of another OPS and, if shed retained the 
OPS benefits which  are the subject of this complaint, she could have transferred them into 
her current  OPS. I dont think thats  a straightforward issue. The terms on which an OPS 
might accept a transfer in and, if so, what benefits  can be bought  will vary and will depend 
on what the receiving  OPS rules say from time to time. I dont think  it would be right to 
approach Mrs Ms complaint on the basis that she could and would have decided to do that. 
All things  considered, Im unable to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1994519