K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that £100 out of a regular payment into his J P Morgan Europe Limited 
account has gone missing.   
background
Mr B told us that when  he tried to take out £342.40, which he receives as a regular payment 
into his J P Morgan account, only £242.40  was available. He thought  J P Morgan had taken 
the rest. 
JP Morgan  operates these accounts  for another business, which  has branches on most  high 
streets. It said that Mr B complained on 5 April 2019.  So it looked at the most  recent  
payment in, matching the amount Mr B said he shouldve  received, before this. Mr B had 
taken £342.40  out of his account on 30 March. 
Our investigator thought that what JP Morgan said was consistent with Mr Bs account 
statement. And Mr B hadnt been able to show us any evidence to back  up what he said.  So 
our investigator didnt think this complaint should  be upheld.  She thought it was more  likely 
that Mr B had taken  out £342.40 on 30 March.
Mr B didnt agree with that. He said that hed tried to take money out of the cash machine, 
but then had gone into the office to tell the staff that he hadnt got the right money, and he 
hadnt got a receipt either. But they hadnt  helped  him.
Mr B wanted  a final decision from an ombudsman on his complaint, so it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Mr B said he shouldve  had £342.40 in his account, but all there was, was £242.40. So thats  
what he took out from a cashpoint. I dont think its likely that Mr B did take this amount from 
a cashpoint. Cashpoints usually only allow people to take out money  in multiples  of ten. 
I think its more likely that Mr B took out cash over the counter. On 30 March, Mr Bs 
statement shows that he had £342.40  in his account, and that he took out the full amount.
Mr B receives regularly weekly payments of benefits, which  seem to be income support and 
retirement benefits. Those added up to a little over £240 per week, in March  2019. Mr B also 
seems to receive a further benefit, which I think may be attendance  allowance, which 
appears from his statements to be paid every four weeks. 
Ive looked at all the payments into and out of Mr Bs account  for March 2019 and I cant see 
any payments in which are for less than these sums,  or any payments out which  arent for 
the full amounts available. All the money seems to have been taken out over the counter. 
Mr B took out the income support and retirement  benefits each Monday, the day they were 
paid. The attendance allowance was paid four weekly  on Fridays, and Mr B took it out the 
next day, a Saturday.
Ref: DRN14625782Theres nothing in this case, other than Mr Bs recollection, to suggest  to me that anyone 
withheld money from Mr B, or that anyone else has taken £100 out of his account. I think its 
more likely that not that Mr B is just remembering this wrong, and he did take out £342.40 on 
30 March. He only took out £240.70 on Monday 1 April, but looking at the pattern of benefit 
payments into his account, thats all I would expect his account  to contain on that date.
Because I cant see any mistakes or missing amounts of money, I dont think  that J P 
Morgan has to do anything about this complaint. I dont think  it should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1462578