K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that a car which was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement  
with Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) was mis-sold to her.
background
In March 2017 Miss P was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement  
with MBFS.
Miss P says the salesperson told her at the point of sale that the car was worth  £48,000 to 
£52,000 and that the offer price of approximately £36,000 was a good  deal.  She also says 
the salesperson  told her that if she traded the car in after 12 months she would either make 
money or retain the value  in the car. Miss P says she entered into the agreement because  of 
what the salesperson  had told her.
Several months later Miss P spoke to a different dealership who told her she would never 
make money on the car and would have  to pay approximately £6000  to trade the car in and 
settle the finance agreement. Miss P says the dealership also told her the model of car she 
had been supplied with was being  phased out. Since then Miss P has been offered two other  
deals by the supplying dealer but only on the basis that she pays  approximately  £6000 to 
settle the shortfall on the finance  agreement.
Miss P isnt happy  that the car has lost so much value in a short space of time. She feels  she 
was mis-sold the car and wants to hand  it back with nothing to pay.
In its final response MBFS denied that Miss P was told she would make money on the car. It 
said the salesperson  highlighted the strength of the offer price  by comparing it against 
alternative cars for sale on the Mercedes website which were being advertised  at a higher 
price. It said production of the model purchased  by Miss P continued up until August 2017.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the salesman  hadnt made an untrue 
statement of fact but instead had given his opinion about depreciation.
Miss P didnt agree. She said she was aware the car would depreciate  in value  but was 
shocked at the amount by which it had depreciated in less than 12 months. She said the 
salesman had told her the car was a good deal and that she could make money of she 
bought it and sold it on. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold  this complaint I would need  to be satisfied that Miss P had been given an 
untrue statement of fact by the salesperson which induced  her to enter the agreement.
Miss P says the salesperson told her she was getting a good deal on the car and that if she 
traded it in within 12 months she wouldnt lose money.
MBFS says the salespersons recollection of the discussion with Miss P was that he didnt 
say the car wouldnt depreciate. The salesperson recalls comparing the offer to other similar 
cars to demonstrate  to Miss P that the price was good.
Ref: DRN13729682The crux of this complaint is about what was said by the salesperson and whether what was 
said amounted to a misrepresentation. In cases where theres a dispute  about what  was 
said, I need to look at all of the available evidence and determine, on the balance  of 
probabilities, whether  Miss P was told she could trade the car in after one year without losing 
any money.
Ive looked at the hire purchase  agreement  and associated documents  but theres nothing to 
suggest there was any guaranteed equity.  Ive also taken  into account the fact that Miss P 
has said shes aware that all cars depreciate.
I can see that if Miss P thought she was getting  a good deal on the car, she might have felt 
that she was protecting herself against the depreciation that would otherwise be suffered if 
she paid more for the same car. But this doesnt  mean that the car wasnt going  to 
depreciate at all. Ive weighed up the evidence I have and on balance Im not persuaded that 
the dealership  would have  given any commitment about the car having guaranteed  equity or 
not depreciating. I think the salesman may have promoted this as a possibility in order to 
encourage Miss P to purchase the car. But I havent  seen enough to persuade me that Miss 
P was mis-led  by the salesman. I think its more likely Miss P knew the car would depreciate.
Miss Ps partner (on behalf of Miss P) said that she was pressured into buying the car. Miss 
P hasnt  mentioned this before. Im aware  that Miss P visited  the dealership  and discussed 
the offer with the salesman before returning later on to purchase the car, so Im satisfied that 
she had ample opportunity to reflect on the offer before  making her decision.
I realise its been disappointing  for Miss P to find out that her car isnt worth what  she 
expected. Its unfortunate, but the value of a car will depreciate and the rate of depreciation 
can be influenced by a number of factors, all of which  are outside of the control of Miss P 
and the dealership. Taking all of the available evidence into account, I cant  say that the 
finance agreement  was mis-sold and I wont be asking MBFS to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1372968