K821x#15complaint
Miss Z has complained about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limiteds handling of a 
claim on her motor  insurance policy.
Reference to Watford  includes its agents.
background
Miss Z was in a low speed incident  with another driver (the third party).  Miss Z said that 
there were actually two separate incidents. The first when the rear of her car came  into 
contact with the third partys car which was behind her at the time. And the second when the 
third party pulled in front of Miss Zs car. Miss Z said the third partys  car scraped her 
passenger side wheel arch in that manoeuvre. The third party  denied  the second  incident 
took place but said Miss Z had reversed into the drivers side of her car in the first incident. 
Watford also insured  the third party.
Watford decided Miss Z was at fault for the first incident as she initially said that she was 
reversing when it happened,  although she later said that she was stationary. Watford said it 
couldn't prove the second incident  took place as there was no damage to the third partys 
car consistent with the impact Miss Z described.
Miss Z didn't agree and brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 
18 January 2021.  For ease I've copied  my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, or if in 
fact such an accident  has taken place, as ultimately thats a matter for the courts.  And, like 
all motor policies, Miss Zs policy allows Watford to settle claims as it sees fit. That means 
Watford doesnt require  her consent  to decide how to settle a claim. So it may make a 
decision that she doesnt agree with. But Ill look to see if its done so reasonably.  Ill add that 
in this case matters are complicated because Watford also insures  the third party.
When Miss Z initially reported the incident she said she was trying to turn right at a junction, 
with the third party car behind her. She said she was reversing to let a fire engine  past when  
the two cars came together. Ms Z said she had room to reverse into but the other driver had 
moved forward and driven into her. In contrast the other driver,  who was also turning right at 
the junction, said Miss Z had reversed into her car. Miss Z later said that, although she had 
reversed, she was stationary when the third party rolled into the back  of her car. But the 
other driver said Miss Z reversed into the drivers  side of her car. 
So Watford  was faced  with two opposing versions  of events. And theres  no witness or 
CCTV evidence to support either version.  That meant Watford needed to decide which 
version of events it preferred. And it initially  said it felt Miss Z was to blame. That was 
because she initially said shed been reversing at the time of the incident,  and it was only 
some months later that she said she was stationary and the third party had driven into her. 
So Watford  said it found her change in statement to be contradictory. And when one car is 
reversing when theres a collision its usual for insurers to say its the responsibility of the 
driver whos reversing to ensure its safe to do so. That means  that if an accident  happened 
Ref: DRN17550832while Miss Z was reversing it might have  been fair for Watford  to say that Miss Z was to 
blame for it, which it initially did. 
But I note that some of the third partys  evidence isn't particularly convincing.  For example 
its not at all clear how, if Miss Z and the third party were  in queuing traffic, Miss Z could 
have reversed into the drivers side of the third partys car. Also the third party claimed  for 
damage to the rear door on her drivers  side including  a broken window. But if Miss Z had 
reversed back into the third party then any expected damage would be to the front of her car. 
And there doesn't  seem  to be any damage to Miss Zs car that could have  caused  a broken 
window in the third partys  rear door.  So it's not clear how the damage which the third party  
claimed for could have  happened in the first incident.
In response to my enquiries Watford has accepted that its handling of the claim had been 
poor. And it said to reflect that it had allowed Miss Zs no claims discount (NCD).  In other 
words it said it had treated the incident as if it wasn't Miss Zs fault. But as far as Im aware 
Miss Z didn't know Watford had treated the incident  as non-fault.  Indeed  the last notification  
I've seen that Watford sent to her about  the matter, in March 2019,  was that it had 
disallowed her NCD - in other words it had treated the incident as being  her fault. And it 
hadn't provided us with any evidence in the meantime, until its response to my enquiries,  
which said it was treating the matter as non-fault. But Im pleased to learn  that it has now 
said its treating the first incident as non-fault.  
Turning to the second incident. Miss Z said that after the first incident  the third party  drove 
round the passenger side of her car and cut in front of her to block her path. And when the 
third party did so her car scraped Miss Zs front left wheel arch.  The third party said that no 
impact of that nature happened. But Miss Z provided  images of her wheel arch which clearly 
shows damage to her car. 
Further, I note that, before our involvement, Watford didn't ever ask engineers to inspect the 
cars or the images  to see if they were consistent with either sides versions  of events. For 
example it didn't ask its engineers to inspect the cars to see if the damage to the wheel arch 
of Miss Zs car was consistent with the damage to the driver side of the third partys  car. I 
think that was an oversight;  so I asked its engineers to consider the images. Having done so, 
while Watford didn't  directly answer all the questions I put to it, it seems its engineers have 
now acknowledged that there  was evidence of glancing impact damage to Miss Zs cars  
wheel arch that could  be consistent with the second collision Miss Z had described. But it 
appears it hadn't previously investigated  this thoroughly. 
And because Watford  didn't  investigate the matter  thoroughly I think  Miss Zs lost the 
opportunity to make a successful claim against the other drivers policy. So to put things  right 
I think Watford should compensate Miss Z for her potential losses, equivalent to what it 
would have cost Watford to settle Miss Zs claim as I've set out below.
Further, I think that Watfords  poor handling of the claim has been  a source of distress and 
inconvenience for Miss Z. So I think it should  pay her a further  £300  compensation to 
address that, on top of the £50 it had previously paid to her.
developments 
Watford didn't  reply to my provisional decision,  Miss Z did. She said that contrary  to what  
Watford had told us the incident  had affected  her NCD and Watford  had stepped it back in 
line with the 2018 incident being  a fault claim.  
Ref: DRN17550833I contacted Watford.  I told it that if it had disallowed the NCD when it had told us that it had 
decided to allow it, that would be unfair. And to address this I intended  to direct it to review  
whether or not it had allowed or disallowed Miss Zs NCD following the 2018 incident.  And, if 
it had disallowed  it, it needed to revisit that and recalculate Miss Zs renewal premiums to 
reflect the fact that it had allowed her NCD, reimburse any amounts overcharged and add 
simple interest to any refund. 
.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it. 
As neither Watford nor Miss Z objected to my provisional decision I dont  intend  to change  it. 
Save to direct  Watford to review Miss Zs NCD as described below. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Watford  Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to:
Pay Miss Z further compensation of £300  to address her distress  and inconvenience.
Review whether or not it has allowed Miss Z's NCD following the incident in 2018.  If it 
has disallowed it then it should allow it and recalculate the premiums  it's charged 
Miss Z when her policy has renewed since then. If that causes her premiums  to 
reduce then it should refund Miss Z the amounts overcharged,  it should  also add 
simple interest to any refund from the date Miss Z paid her premiums  to the date it 
reimburses her at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Compensate Miss Z for her potential losses, equivalent to what  it would have cost 
Watford to settle Miss Zs claim for the damage  she said the second incident  caused 
to her car. So it should do one of the following:
Arrange and pay for repairs for the damaged areas of Miss Zs car caused in 
the second incident
Offer  a cash-in-lieu settlement equivalent  to the cost of those repairs.
If Miss Z has already  paid to have the damage  repaired then she should 
submit the invoice for that work and Watford should reimburse  her. It should 
add simple interest to any reimbursement at a rate of 8% a year from the date 
she paid for the repair to the date it reimburses  her. 
If Miss Z has sold her car in the meantime without repairing the damage,  then Watford  
should pay Miss Z 50% of the estimated  cost to repair the damage to her car. It should  add 
simple interest to that sum from the date Miss Z sold her car to the date it reimburses  her
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
1 If Watford  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss Z how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN17550834Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1755083