K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Zurich Insurance PLC unfairly refused to pay his cancellation of 
his flights and car hire claim  under his travel policy.
References to Zurich include all its agents.
background
Mr K was due to fly to a European city for a city break with his wife and child.  He said his 
wife developed back pain and couldnt travel so he made a claim.
Zurich said there seemed  to be several  different accounts of why he couldnt travel. Initially  
this was because  he had no travel documents for his child and was refused boarding and/or 
that his child was also ill. Later he said he wife was ill. It said given the different accounts, it 
didnt think Mr K had adequately  proved his claim,  so it refused to pay it.
Mr K thought  this was unfair and brought  his complaint to us. The investigator felt that as 
there was medical  evidence confirming his wifes back problem, Zurich should  pay the claim.
Zurich disagreed so Mr Ks complaint  was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 July and said the following:
My role and that of this service is to assess whether  Zurich did anything wrong 
based on the evidence presented to it and the terms and conditions  of the policy. 
Mr K and his family were due to travel  on 29 October 2018. However, the airline  told 
Zurich that Mr K was refused boarding, as he didnt  have  any travel documents  for 
his child. Ive listened to the call recording between  Zurich  and the airline, and its 
clear the airline  said this to Zurich. Therefore, on this account  of the reason why Mr K 
couldnt make his trip, Zurich would have done  nothing wrong in refusing to pay his 
claim, as there is no cover for a cancellation  for this reason under Mr Ks policy. It is 
however always possible  that the airline got this wrong. However,  we have two 
emails from the airline, one confirming he wasnt allowed to travel due to the lack of 
travel documents for his child. 
However Zurich also say that Mr K phoned  on 29 October 2018 at around 9.30am 
advising he had to cancel  his trip due to the illness  of his child who had developed  
fever and sickness during the night.  He said he would provide medical evidence to 
support this, but nothing was ever received. Instead,  Mr K provided  medical  evidence  
that his wife was ill and couldnt travel but thats not what he said to Zurich  initially,  as 
then he said his child was ill.
Further, the airline told Zurich that Mr K and called  it on 24 October to cancel his trip, 
but this was before either his child or his wife became ill on the basis of what Mr K 
has said. Given the contents of the medical  evidence in support of his wifes illness,  it 
said she didnt attend her doctor until 29 October who said her issues  didnt start until 
26 October, which was after Mr K phoned  to cancel  his trip on 24 October. 
So given the conflicting evidence as to the reasons why Mr K didnt  want  to travel  on 
this trip, I dont consider Zurich did anything wrong  in refusing to pay this claim. It 
Ref: DRN12547402seems apparent that Mr K didnt want to travel from 24 October but then there are 
three different reasons  for this subsequently,  one his child was ill, the second  being 
his wife was ill and the third being  there was no travel documents  for his child. All 
three of these reasons appeared to have  occurred after 24 October and not before.
Mr K didnt respond to my provisional  decision and neither  did Zurich.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis neither  party provided  any further  information I see no reason to depart  from 
the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1254740