K820x#14complaint
Mr M is complaining that MBNA Limited  hasnt allowed him to reject  a car which he thinks 
wasnt of satisfactory quality that he part paid for on his credit  card.  He brings the claim 
under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  (S75).
background
In December 2017, Mr M bought a car from a third-party dealership  who I shall call K. He 
paid £500 with his MBNA  credit card and the remainder by a combination of cash and bank 
transfer from his partners account.  The cash price  of the car was around  £7,300,  it was 
around four years old and had travelled around  95,500 miles when he bought  it.
Around two months  after he bought the car, Mr M says he noticed  a smell of petrol in the car. 
So he took the car to a garage  for an inspection who he says suggested he should  change 
the air filter.  Mr M also said a noise in the engine had appeared. He says the garage told him 
he should take the car to a manufacturer dealership to have  the issue diagnosed. In 
April 2018 he arranged  to have the filter replaced.   He also says, shortly afterwards, the 
engine management  light appeared  and the car went into limp mode.
Mr M took the car back to K who he says also told him to take it to a manufacturer dealership 
as they would consider the issues under the cars  warranty. In May 2018  Mr M took the car 
to a dealership  who said the issue with the fuel smell was down to a faulty diesel particulate 
filter (DPF). He says he was told it would cost around £3,400 to replace  the DPF. He says 
the dealership  also told him it would have to strip the engine to understand the extent of the 
fault with the engine.  
Mr M then contacted K who advised him to bring the car and theyd inspect it. Following the 
inspection, they said the faults were down to wear and tear and highlighted that Mr M had 
travelled around  10,500 miles in the car. So they didnt think they were liable for the repairs. 
Mr M contacted MBNA to raise a claim under S75 as he said K hadnt considered their legal 
responsibilities to fix the car. MBNA responded to say it also considered the faults  were  
down to wear and tear. So it didnt uphold Mr Ms S75 claim. Mr M still maintained  K was 
legally required to fix the issues because he didnt think a reasonable person would expect 
the faults on the car to arise within six months of receiving it and having only travelled 
around 10,000  miles in the car.
Mr M arranged for an engineer to provide a report on the issues  with the car. And he 
concluded The noise from the engine  is, in my opinion, inconsistent with normal 'wear and 
tear' and not commensurate with a vehicle of this age and type/mileage  covered.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  the faults currently present on 
the car were present  or developing at the point of supply, given Mr M had travelled 10,500 
miles since he bought  it. 
Mr M didnt  accept the investigators opinion and referred the investigators opinion  to his 
independent engineer who said I have considered durability in this case  and would not have 
expected the engine  to have failed at such a low relative mileage as the vehicle had done in 
this case. I would anticipate and engine  of this type and manufacture to last at least  200,000 
Ref: DRN16420872miles without  any major issues if it were maintained correctly. So Mr M maintained he 
should be allowed  to reject the car.
As Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Mr M partly paid for the car through  his MBNA  credit  card. S75 sets out that in certain  
circumstances, as the finance  provider,  MBNA  is jointly liable for any breach  of contract or 
misrepresentation by K. Im satisfied  those circumstances apply here. 
Legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015  implied a term into the contract  
Mr M had with K to buy the car that the car must be of satisfactory quality. Mr M says the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality so he says K has breached the terms of contract. And he says 
MBNA is liable for his losses under  S75. Theres no dispute that theres a fault with the car, 
but the issue is whether that fault makes the car of unsatisfactory  quality  when it was 
supplied.
In deciding whether  this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage  and age. In this case,  Mr M paid around 
£7,300 for the car. The car was around four years old and had travelled around  95,500  miles 
at the point of supply.  
The issue  here is whether  those  problems were likely to have been  present or developing at 
the time of sale, as opposed to natural and inevitable wear and tear in a used car. Ive also 
considered whether a reasonable person would expect there to be problems such  as Mr M 
has experienced in a car of this price, age and mileage  in short  is the car sufficiently 
durable. 
I think its particularly important to note Mr Ms car had travelled around 95,500 when he 
bought it. So I think it was reasonable to expect a significant amount of wear  and tear to 
have happened  by the time he acquired it. And I dont think  he could reasonably  expect it to 
be fault free for as long as one would expect on a new car.
It seems  to be there are two issues with Mr Ms car  a faulty DPF and a further issue  with 
the engine. Im conscious that Mr M had travelled around 10,500  in the car by May 2018. I 
dont think he could  have  travelled that distance if the DPF had failed at the point of supply. 
Its possible the fault may have started  to be developing. But, as I said, its inevitable there 
would have been faults developing  on the car when he bought  it given the number of miles it 
had travelled.
Mr M has provided an independent report from an engineer whos said he doesnt think the 
fault with the DPF was down to wear and tear or commensurate with the age and mileage  of 
the vehicle. But, as I said, the car had travelled around 95,500 miles by the time Mr M 
bought it. So Mr M had to reasonably expect some  faults to be developing on the car  its 
Ref: DRN16420873the risk one takes with buying a car with a high mileage. Given  Mr M was able to travel the 
miles he did I dont think  a developing  issue with the DPF would make  the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Ive also thought about the issue with the engine noise. Im conscious  no one has definitively 
said what is causing the engine noise. K has suggested the fault may be down to damaged 
anti-roll bushes, but it says this would  be attributable  to wear and tear. Mr Ms independent 
engineer said he couldnt say for certain what the cause of the noise was without dismantling 
the engine. But he suggested it was likely to be attributable to the balancer shafts areas. 
While I do not dispute there are faults  with the car, Mr M has been able to travel around  
10,500 since he first acquired  the car. I dont think he could  have travelled this distance if 
there was a major  fault with the engine. It seems  to me that the faults Mr M has had with the 
car are attributable to the number of miles the car has travelled. 
Ive thought about Mr Ms comments that he doesnt  think a reasonable person would expect  
to see such significant  issues within the first five months of buying a car and having  only 
travelled 10,500 miles  i.e. he suggests the car isnt sufficiently durable.  But, as I said 
above, given the cars  mileage I dont think he can reasonably expect the car to be fault free 
at the point of supply  or not develop faults  shortly  afterwards.  
Ive considered the latest report Mr M has provided, but I dont think it adds anything  to what 
was provided before.  The report  sets out the inspector wouldnt expect an engine  failure  to 
occur when it has as he said he would expect an engine to last around 200,000 miles. But it 
doesnt specify the actual cause of the fault. There are two separate reports  one saying  the 
issues are down to wear and tear and another  one down to an issue with the balancer 
shafts. 
I dont dispute  the engine  of the car could have lasted until around 200,000 miles. But I 
remain of the belief that I think Mr M had to reasonably expect issues  to arise with the car 
given the high mileage at the point of purchase. I cant  say, given he was able to travel over 
10,500 miles in the car, that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when he bought it.
I appreciate Mr M says he may have to scrap  the car and I naturally  sympathise with the 
situation he finds himself  in. But he has been able to travel 10,500 miles since he acquired 
the car. And for the reasons Ive set out above,  I cant say the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when K supplied it to him. So, it follows that I dont  think it breached the terms of the 
contract.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1642087