K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that the vehicle he acquired on finance supplied by Secure  Trust Bank Plc 
trading as Moneyway was not of satisfactory  quality and had been  misrepresented  as having 
a full service history.  He wants to reject  the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Mr L is represented by his wife in this complaint but for ease of reading Ill just refer to him.
Mr L tells us he acquired the vehicle, in May 2018, through a dealer Ill refer to as C. He 
says that C had agreed to provide a vehicle with a full service and MOT history.  About  three 
months later he says the vehicle experienced a loss of power.  Mr L says he had this 
diagnosed as relating  to the diesel particulate filter (DPF) - which required cleaning. In 
December 2018,  he says the vehicle  appeared to develop further faults and was not able to 
be driven. So he arranged  to have it inspected and serviced, in January 2019,  by a local 
independent garage Ill refer to as O. He said O had identified  a large number of faults 
including the cambelt needing to be changed;  lower  arm bushes deteriorating for some time; 
cylinder 3 injector  needing replacing; a new timing belt and water  pump  being  required. Mr L 
told us O had been perplexed at how the vehicle had been given a clean  bill of health at an 
MOT prior to supply. He subsequently  reported the vehicle had again  broken down in April 
2019.
Moneyway told us that in January 2019  it had received  a complaint from Mr L about various 
issues with the vehicle. It said he had informed it that repairs  would  cost around £2,500 to 
fix. It said it considered the issues raised by Mr L to amount to wear  and tear items and there 
was no evidence that faults were  present or developing  at the point of supply. It also felt the 
vehicle would not have been  able to cover over 9,000 miles if the faults  had been present  
when the vehicle was supplied.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She felt the problems  
identified with the vehicle were due to wear and tear issues - which were to be expected  with 
a vehicle which was seven years old when supplied  and had covered over 54,000 miles. She 
said shed also considered the fact that Mr L had been  able to drive the vehicle for a 
substantial number of miles  before the problems occurred.
Mr L didnt agree with this outcome.  He felt the evidence  of O showed there were faults with 
the vehicle at the point  of supply. As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an 
ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr L has experienced various  problems  with this vehicle. And I can understand 
why hes been  disappointed at its performance. Unfortunately, things sometimes go wrong  
and with a seven year old vehicle  with over 54,000 miles covered at the time he acquired  it, 
the risks are that much  higher that faults  will develop  sooner or later.
Ref: DRN17659382Mr Ls complaint consists of two main  elements. He feels the vehicle was misrepresented as 
having a full service  history when it did not. And he states the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.
Mr Ls hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement  and our service is 
able to consider  complaints relating to it. Moneyway supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. And its also responsible for any 
misrepresentation made by the dealer, C, to Mr L in relation to the description of the vehicle 
prior to supply. Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly  - I do take it into account. And relevant 
law here includes the Consumer Rights Act of 2015 (CRA) as well as the Consumer Credit  
Act, 1974.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a customer to act upon it and 
enter into an agreement.  Whilst  I accept  that Mr L feels  that it was agreed with C that the 
vehicle supplied would have a full service  history,  Ive seen no other  information which 
supports this. Mr L wasnt able to supply an advert  which specifically referred  to his vehicle, 
although he referred to Cs website and the general description it applied  to all the vehicles 
advertised. Whilst that advert made reference to various matters including warranties, 
breakdown cover and valeting of vehicles it didnt refer to any service  history. So I cant say 
there was any misrepresentation. It would also have been open to Mr L to delay accepting 
the vehicle until any service history he required had been supplied.
The CRA presumes  that faults which are identified within six months of supply were present 
at the point of supply  unless its shown otherwise. Mr L complained to Moneyway in January 
2019, after his vehicle broke  down  in December 2018. But before then, in August 2018, hed 
complained to C. Mr L reported to C that the vehicle had suffered a loss of power and the 
information supplied  seems to suggest  this was due to an issue  with the DPF. Im able to say 
from experience in dealing with many  cases involving faults  with a DPF that it can become 
blocked in certain  driving conditions. And very often  a short  period of driving  at high revs - 
which is what appears to have been advised - will alleviate  the problem. 
As Mr L was apparently  able to overcome the problem at the time I think  the issue  was 
probably temporary. And as theres  no other  mention of this problem in the later repairs  in 
January, I cant say it was a fault present at the point of supply.
O reported that - after completing the January 2019  service - it found the front lower  arms 
bushes were delaminated and fully detached  and felt this should  have  been  advised 
previously, as they had deteriorated for quite a length of time. How long is not specified. 
It also stated the cambelt was overdue  to be replaced and that in accordance  with the 
manufacturers data it said this should  have  happened at around 54,000 miles.
It seems  O carried out repairs to various items  for which Mr L has supplied the invoices. Our 
investigator listed these  in her view letter - so I neednt  repeat them  here. She characterised  
them as being  problems which appear to be due to reasonably expected  wear  and tear. I 
think that is a fair description.
Ive seen copy of the vehicles  MOT pass certificate  dated 24 May 2018 which  I understand 
is a few days before the vehicle was supplied to Mr L. This indicates  the mileage at the time 
of the MOT was 54,230.  There were no advisories. Although Mr L has questioned the 
authenticity of this MOT thats  not something  that I can deal with as it does  not fall within  the 
jurisdiction of this service.
Ref: DRN17659383By the time the January 2019 service was carried out and the faults were identified the 
vehicle mileage was recorded as 63,958. This means the vehicle has covered  over 9,500 
since it was supplied to Mr L. It seems to me highly improbable that a vehicle of this age, 
which could fairly be described as not being  of satisfactory quality at the time of supply, 
could achieve  this mileage. None of the information with which Ive been supplied  makes me 
think otherwise. And when the vehicle failed  in April 2019  Ive not seen anything to show  this 
was due to faults  present at the point of supply.
In summary,  I accept the vehicle has experienced faults since being acquired by Mr L. Whilst 
its unfortunate that these seem to have occurred over a relatively  short period I think  that 
this is solely  due to the nature of older, used motor vehicles. Its to be expected that 
serviceable components  will require replacing from time to time and its difficult  to predict 
when this may be necessary.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr L but Im not upholding this 
complaint. The information provided to me does not, in my opinion,  show  the vehicle was not 
of satisfactory quality when supplied.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1765938