K820x#14Complaint
The estate  of Mrs W has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC wont  refund unauthorised  
transactions on her account.
Mrs G is the executor and authorised representative  for the estate.
Background
Mrs W had a stroke, which made  her dependent on her family for help. She gave her debit 
card and PIN to her daughter-in-law so she could help her with shopping and finances. 
Sadly, Mrs W passed away  on 18 May 2018, after a spell in hospital. 
On 24 May 2018, the daughter-in-law closed  Mrs Ws account.
Mrs G is Mrs Ws daughter. She needed money  to pay the funeral costs  and was surprised 
to discover that the balance in her mothers account  was lower than expected. She found  a 
bank statement and discovered that between  2013  and 2018  there  were  frequent weekly  
ATM cash  withdrawals,  purchases and regular  payments of £500 to another  account. 
Mrs G didnt believe that her mother had authorised all these transactions.  She said her 
mother lived in a care home  and had modest  needs.  Nine transactions, totalling £1,740,  
were made while Mrs W was in hospital from 6 April to 14 May 2018,  shortly before she died.
Mrs G believes  the daughter-in-law made  the transactions without her mothers consent. She 
asked Lloyds for a refund  of all transactions, except  for those made for rent and utilities.  
Lloyds investigated  her complaint and decided not to refund  the estate. It said it didnt know 
what arrangement had been  agreed  between Mrs W and her daughter-in-law. But it didnt 
matter because when  Mrs W gave her card and PIN to her daughter-in-law, she authorised  
all transactions  on the account. 
As Mrs G didnt  agree with Lloyds decision,  she asked us to investigate.
Our investigator looked into her complaint and decided not to uphold it. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude  that the transactions were unauthorised because Mrs W had given her 
card and PIN to her daughter-in-law.
Mrs G disagreed with our investigators view. She said she couldnt  see how her mother  
could authorise  the transactions,  which were  made  while  she was in hospital. She asked 
Lloyds to refund only those transactions but Lloyds refused, saying there  were  still 
authorised.
Mrs G has now asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid my review of 
the evidence has led me to the same overall  conclusions as those reached by the 
investigator.
Ref: DRN15200672The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Mrs G and Lloyds have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those  which form the basis  of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mrs G that Ive read the file, including her comments  and evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In short,  Lloyds is required to refund  the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2009  and 2017 
(the PSRs).
The PSRs  say that a payment out of someones account can only be treated as authorised if 
the payer has consented to it. So, the customer must have consented to a payment  
transaction taking  place.  My primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I 
think Mrs W consented to the transactions.
I dont think theres any doubt that Mrs W gave  her card and PIN to her daughter-in-law so 
she could help with her financial affairs. Mrs G has confirmed  this with us. 
Also, the banks  internal  notes record that Mrs G said she knew her mother  had given the 
daughter-in-law her card and PIN after shed had the stroke.  She told Lloyds the daughter-in-
law looked after her mothers financial affairs and she would get money out for her. She also 
told the bank that her brother and his wife lived closer  to their mother so they would take her 
out shopping and to hospital and other appointments. She said she thought her mother 
wouldve asked them to get money  out for her for any reason and that she asked the 
daughter-in-law to get cash  for her other daughter when she used  to visit. Mrs G said she 
didnt think the daughter-in-law wouldve given the card back to her mother.
But Mrs G doesnt believe her mother wouldve consented to all the transactions because 
she had no need  for the frequent cash withdrawals or purchases, such as petrol. And shes  
asked how her mother couldve  authorised the last few transactions while  she was in 
hospital and didnt leave the ward.
 
I sympathise with her feelings on this subject. And I completely understand why Mrs W 
shared her card and PIN with her daughter-in-law. Sadly, this is a common  situation.
However, under the PSRs a payment transaction is regarded as having been authorised by 
the payer only if the payer has given its consent to the execution  of the payment transaction.
The regulations go on to say that such consent  must be given in the form, and in 
accordance with the procedure, agreed  between the payer and its payment service provider. 
The form and procedure  are usually set out in the terms and conditions.  The terms and 
conditions for Mrs Ws account state:
Payments out of your account (withdrawals)
8.1 General conditions about payments out of your account
Ref: DRN15200673(a) We are entitled to assume  we are dealing with you, and that you have 
agreed to us acting  on any instructions, without getting further confirmation from 
you:
(i) if you ask us to make a payment using your Security Details (for 
example a card and PIN at a cash machine or the passwords you have 
chosen for Telephone or Internet Banking) as long as any relevant 
security checks  have  been completed by us or, in the case of a card 
with contactless  functionality, using  that functionality; and
(ii) otherwise, if you have signed  a cheque  or other document containing 
the payment instruction.
The Financial Conduct Authority has also stated that,
 The procedure for giving  consent to execute  a payment transaction could  be in 
writing, by using a payment card and PIN.  (Payment Services and Electronic  
Money  Our Approach  2017)
What this means in summary, is Mrs W is treated  as having consented to the transactions  
because she allowed her daughter-in-law to use her card and PIN.
And when  telephone banking was set up, Lloyds were entitled to believe  the instruction 
came from Mrs W, as the person  wouldve  have  needed her banking details to set it up. After 
registration, a password  wouldve been used to make a payment instruction.
For this reason, Im afraid Lloyds is entitled to treat Mrs W as having authorised  the 
transactions, even  though she might not have made them herself.
The regulations also say that Lloyds  doesnt have to refund the disputed transactions if Mrs 
W intentionally did something, which she shouldnt do under the terms and conditions, such  
as giving her card and PIN to her daughter-in-law. I understand why she did this but Im 
afraid it also means Lloyds can refuse a refund. 
Ive considered whether Lloyds shouldve been  alerted to any or all of the transactions.
Lloyds had an obligation to follow the payment  instructions. But, occasionally,  there are 
situations where a bank  should reasonably have a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transactions.
Ive thought about whether this was one of those  situations. 
Ive looked at the statements for the account. Unfortunately,  Lloyds  can only provide  
statements for 2013 to 2018. So, I dont know what Mrs Ws spending was like before she 
had the stroke.  However, looking at the statements, I dont think the type of payments, or the 
amounts shown, are particularly unusual or suspicious. From what Ive seen, the payments 
are mostly direct debits  for rent and utilities and shopping at high street  stores, mainly 
grocery stores.
There are frequent  weekly cash withdrawals,  other  one-off purchases, for example for 
jewellery, repayments for a loan, and regular  transfers to a family member. Again, I dont 
think theres anything  about these payments in terms of either  their value  or their payment 
Ref: DRN15200674type that would be remarkable or strikingly unusual  to the bank at the time, bearing in mind it 
knew nothing about Mrs Ws situation.  
I think the fact that Lloyds  didnt flag these payments as suspicious was fair and reasonable 
given the circumstances. And besides,  we dont know if Mrs W had agreed  that her 
daughter-in-law and son could take some  payment for helping  her out, such  as for petrol. Im 
afraid, based on the available  evidence, I cant safely say that the disputed transactions  
were made fraudulently.
Considering everything, I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to refuse a refund.
I am very sorry  for Mrs Gs loss. And I sympathise  with her concerns and the financial 
difficulties, which the shortage  of money  for the funeral costs has caused her. Clearly,  this 
has been a distressing time for her and her family.  No one wants  to deal with a problem like 
this after losing a loved one. So, I am sorry I cant give her better news. I hope she can 
resolve this within  the family.
I thank Mrs G for her patience while we looked  into her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1520067