K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with the way their home  insurance claim for flood/water damage 
was dealt with by (the company now known as) Fairmead Insurance  Limited, and with the 
settlement offered to them.
background
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs H reported  that their home had been flooded  by a leak from a water  
pipe behind  a toilet. Fairmead discussed  with Mr and Mrs H alternative accommodation (AA) 
and instructed an agency to find suitable AA. Mr and Mrs H were  warned of the difficulty  of 
finding such AA in their local area. They managed to find AA themselves  and moved in at 
the end of August 2018 for an initial period of 5 months.
There were delays in getting  the strip out and drying  under way. This didnt start until early 
November. Then asbestos was found  in some  floor tiles which  had to be removed. 
Dehumidifiers were put in the property for a couple of weeks in December. The contractors 
ordered materials but told Mr and Mrs H they wouldnt be able to start the repairs until 
around 21 January.  Mr and Mrs H then decided  they wanted a cash settlement. Fairmead 
agreed to this, it assessed that having taken into account the works already carried out that it 
could pay Mr and Mrs H £8,800. Mr and Mrs H had quotes from surveyors that said the work 
would cost around three times that amount. 
Fairmead accepted  that thered been  delays in its contractors  carrying out the work. For the 
delays up until November  it paid £200. Then for the further delays up until February it paid a 
further £250. Nevertheless it said its contractors were prepared to finish  the repairs  so would 
only pay what it would cost it to carry out the repairs, in line with the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs H reluctantly  accepted the settlement offered, but referred their complaint  to this 
service.
Our investigator thought that the compensation offered was reasonable and that Fairmead  
was acting within the terms of the insurance in the cash settlement  it made.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy and the matter has been  referred  to me for further 
consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have a number of issues with the way the repairs  were started and how the 
claim was handled  by Fairmead. First of all they say they had to find their own AA, which 
was provided to them at a reduced  rent by their local church. I see that Fairmead did instruct  
an  accommodation agency to find AA but did warn Mr and Mrs H that there could be 
difficulties in their particular area and advised  them that they could also look themselves. As 
it transpired the AA they found  was more suitable  for them  than anything sourced through  
the agency, but I dont think that was a failure  on Fairmeads part. Fairmead readily agreed 
to the AA and to pay the rent for it.
Once Mr and Mrs H moved to AA, the drying  company attended in late August  to decide on 
the strip out work required. Unfortunately this wasnt started  until early November, a delay of 
two months which  I agree  was unacceptable, for which Fairmead paid £200 compensation.
Ref: DRN19992992Then asbestos was discovered. Fairmead  said this wasnt possible to ascertain before the 
strip out works commenced.  I havent  seen anything to suggest  that the possibility of 
asbestos being present should've been  diagnosed earlier. Im inclined to think that as that 
would have been part of the repair works  and there had already been a delay, this didnt 
cause any further  avoidable delay.
Once the drying out got underway, Fairmead  agreed that the contractors should have been  
more proactive in setting  a start date. As it was, they couldnt  say they would be starting until 
21 January, although they did order materials. I think this was another  unacceptable  delay, 
for which Fairmead paid a further  £250  compensation.  Fairmead  offered the cash settlement 
on 14 February.
I think for the overall delays in getting  to the point  of offering a cash  settlement that Fairmead  
has paid reasonable compensation of £450. I dont think  it was responsible  for the initial 
delay in M and Mrs H being able to find suitable AA. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H were 
frustrated by the delays and had to do a lot of chasing around.  But I think the compensation 
paid is reasonable and in line with awards we have made in similar cases.
As for the cash settlement, Fairmead  has relied  on the following term in the policy:
Where you prefer to use your own tradesman,  or we elect  to settle the claim by cash
payment, the amount we pay you will not exceed what we would have paid our supplier
except when our supplier is unable to repair  or replace the property
I know Mr and Mrs H take the view that Fairmeads  contractors  were unable to complete the 
repair (in a reasonable time). But I think at the stage where they wanted a cash settlement, 
the contractors  were in a position to go ahead  with the repairs.  Theres no indication that 
they were unable or unwilling to do so. So, as the policy term allows Fairmead  to pay only 
what it would  have  paid its contractors, I think it was reasonable of it to offer settlement 
based on that. Most home insurance  policies have such a term, or something  similar.
Mr and Mrs H have pointed out that when they got their renewal  papers  the claim was put as 
costing over £23,000. I believe this figure came from an initial  appraisal,  so will be updated. 
It would cover every aspect of the claim including the cost of AA, loss adjusters costs  and 
other fees.  I dont think thats a final indication of what  it cost Fairmead, which  is clearly  
based on the schedule of works it had drawn up.
There is an indication that VAT might  not have been  included in the settlement. If thats the 
case and Mr and Mrs H have incurred the cost of VAT, they should produce the invoice(s)  to 
Fairmead for reimbursement.
Overall I think  that Fairmeads  resolution  of Mr and Mrs Hs complaints and its cash 
settlement was reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2020.
Ref: DRN19992993Ray Lawley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1999299