K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about how their buildings  insurance claim for subsidence damage 
was handled by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited. 
background
Mr and Mrs P made a claim under their buildings  insurance policy in 2011  when  they noticed 
ever worsening cracks inside and outside their home. Lloyds accepted  the claim and 
monitored the movement in their home  for a while. It thought initially  that it was being caused 
by a local authority  owned tree. In 2015 repairs were  carried out but six weeks  after they 
were completed, cracks started  to re-appear  so Lloyds  investigated  again.  
Following further monitoring it was discovered  the subsidence was being caused  by a tree in 
a neighbours  garden. Lloyds decided that the property needed to be underpinned  and 
Mr and Mrs P were  moved into alternative accommodation in August 2016.  They  were told 
the repair should take six months but in the end Mr and Mrs P didnt move back home  until 
May 2018. During this time Lloyds changed  the company handling the claim which  in turn 
changed the surveyor and twice changed contractor. There was poor service from the claims 
handler and the builders  and there  were  delays. Mr and Mrs P also had to move temporary 
accommodation twice.  
They wrote to Lloyds  setting out the timeline of events. Despite Mr and Mrs P not intending 
the letter to be a formal complaint, Lloyds treated it as such and paid them  compensation of 
£400. Unhappy  with what had happened Mr and Mrs P complained to this service  in 
September 2017 about the way the claim had been handled, the delays and the fact the 
underpinning had yet to be completed. 
As some of the issues  Mr and Mrs P had complained about had yet to be investigated by 
Lloyds we asked  them to look into them. And Mr and Mrs P agreed that the whole complaint 
could be looked  at once the claim had been concluded. 
Lloyds issued its final response to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint in August 2018. Lloyds upheld 
the complaint  and apologised  for the poor service  theyd  received  throughout the claim and 
the inconvenience theyd been caused.  Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs P further  compensation of 
£1,500 in acknowledgement of the severity of their complaint. Unhappy with the amount of 
compensation theyd  been paid, Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint back to this service. 
Our adjudicator investigated Mr and Mrs Ps complaint but didnt recommend that it was 
upheld. Whilst she acknowledged the upset the handling of the claim had caused  them,  she 
thought that the total compensation paid overall  of £1,900  was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with our adjudicator. They  said:
she hadnt even  looked at the issue of the windows  that theyd paid to have replaced  as 
a result of the subsidence damage and which they thought Lloyds  should  reimburse  
them for;
theyd initially been told the whole claim would  take a maximum of three years yet eight  
years later it still wasnt complete  as they were  still waiting  for some minor repairs  to be 
done;
Ref: DRN14278912they should only have been  in alternative  accommodation for six months yet they were 
there for 21 months;
that our adjudicator  hadnt looked at the fact that Lloyds contractors had damaged some 
personal items;
the whole claim  had taken an emotional and physical toll on them;
theyd had to pay a policy excess of £1,000 which,  when  deducted from the 
compensation, meant they were  receiving only £900  for enduing  eight years  of misery. 
Our adjudicator contacted Lloyds about  the windows. It said they had been  assessed during 
the claim but found to be undamaged by subsidence. It said they were in generally poor 
condition and that it had been Mr and Mrs Ps decision to replace them whilst the rest of the 
house was being repaired. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, I dont  think their complaint should be upheld.  Ill explain 
why. 
From the evidence Ive reviewed, its clear to me that Mr and Mrs P have endured significant 
inconvenience and distress during the 7-8 years their subsidence claim has gone on. At 
times, their home was treated without respect by Lloyds  contractors  and this caused them  
understandable distress  and trouble. Ive seen the photographs  of the house during the 
repairs and I can appreciate how upsetting it mustve been for Mr and Mrs P to have their 
home reduced to such a condition. 
There has also been poor communication, delays and poor workmanship. Mr and Mrs P 
have had to chase Lloyds about the progress of their claim which caused them further 
frustration and spent  far longer in alternative  accommodation than they were initially led to 
believe. I understand some personal items have also gone  missing or were  damaged.  So I 
dont doubt at all that the claim has taken an emotional and physical toll on them.  
When this service is asked to award compensation we always consider whether doing  so 
would be fair. We also look at what the financial  business has - or hasnt  done  yet to 
address the emotional or practical impact of its mistake. And any award of compensation we 
make isnt intended to fine or punish a business   thats the job of the regulator. 
In its final response letter,  Lloyds acknowledged the shortcomings in service  Mr and Mrs P 
had experienced and the trouble and upset that had caused them. It apologised and paid 
them compensation of £1,500. This was in addition to £400 it had paid them in 2017. I can 
see why Mr and Mrs P feel that further compensation would be reasonable but Im unable  to 
agree. 
I say that because if this complaint had passed across my desk without Lloyds having paid 
any compensation at all, it is unlikely that Id have awarded them more than £1,900. Ive 
thought about all the circumstances  of this complaint and I think that compensation of £1,900 
is a fair amount  and in line with what weve awarded in similar complaints.
Ref: DRN14278913I know that Mr and Mrs P think that if the policy excess  they paid to Lloyds  is deducted from 
this amount they have only received a net amount of £900. The policy excess is a 
contractual obligation. The insured pays the first proportion of the claim,  sharing in the risk in 
the process. A policy  excess  is also a mechanism used to influence the amount of premium  
paid. It has to be paid when a claim is first accepted  and is entirely  separate  from any award 
of compensation.  
Ive thought too about the matter of the replacement windows.  In the absence of any 
documentary evidence  that they were  damaged by the subsidence I dont think  I can 
reasonably make Lloyds  reimburse Mr and Mrs P for the cost of replacing  them.  Indeed they 
told our adjudicator that theyd decided to replace them  because  they were so bad. They 
also said they shouldve  been considered as part of the subsidence claim. Lloyds says they 
were and it was decided that, whilst  in poor condition, they werent themselves damaged by 
the subsidence. 
So I dont  think theres enough here for me to reasonably  conclude  that the windows were  
damaged by the subsidence, needed  replacing  as a result  and that Lloyds should be 
reimbursing Mr and Mrs P for them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1427891