K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for 
the complaint.  To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
background
In August 1997 Mr A applied for a store card by completing an application form.
In January 1998 PPI was added to his account following a telephone call. I think  its likely 
that the policy cost no more than £1.00  per £100 Mr A owed on his store  card and it 
protected Mr As store card monthly repayments if he couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. Mr A disagreed.  His main  complaint is that 
no explanation  was given regarding the insurance  and he says it mustve been  added on 
without his consent during the telephone conversation. He also says that if the PPI had been 
explained in full detail, he wouldve rejected it as he had more than sufficient cover and didnt 
require further  insurance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres only limited information.  No call recording or call scripts are available  so I dont know 
how FICL explained the PPI to Mr A during  the phone call. It wouldnt be reasonable to rely 
on Mr A being able to remember  everything  that happened so long ago. So I cant know  
exactly what FICL may have said to Mr A when he took out PPI with his store  card. I have to 
look at the available information  and decide  what I think is most  likely. 
When he filled in the card application the PPI part wasnt completed and Mr A had taken out 
his card without PPI. So I think he wouldve known it was open to him not to take PPI if he 
didnt want to have  it. It looks to me as if Mr A couldve benefitted from having PPI if hed 
needed to claim. On balance, I think its likely  that Mr A decided  during the phone call that he 
wanted to protect  his store  card monthly  repayments  by taking out the policy offered and it was 
added to his card account at his request.    
Based on what this service knows about  the way FICL sold PPI at the time, I dont think its 
likely that FICL recommended the policy to Mr A. But FICL  still had to give Mr A enough 
information about the policy for him to be able to decide if he wanted it or not. 
I dont know if the information  FICL gave Mr A about the PPI was as clear  as it shouldve 
been  including the costs  and benefits  of the policy. But based  on what I know  about  Mr As 
circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to him. 
Ref: DRN10709052Mr A was eligible for the policy.  There were  some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt 
look like any of the policy limitations or exclusions  wouldve affected Mr A. 
Mr A wouldve had full sick pay for 12 weeks followed by 12 weeks on half pay if he was off 
work unwell.  But, in the event of accident  or sickness, the policy couldve paid a benefit for as 
long as Mr A was off sick  clearing his card balance if he wasnt well enough to go back to 
work. The policy wouldve  also paid out this benefit if Mr A lost his job unexpectedly and was 
out of work. 
So, looking  at all the information Mr A told us about his circumstances at the time,  I think he 
couldve benefitted from having the policy.
Mr A chose to take out the policy when  he didnt have to  so he seems to have wanted it at 
the time. Ive seen  nothing to suggest it was unaffordable for him when he took it out. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mr A, I think it unlikely he wouldve  made  a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  hed still have 
taken out the policy.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1070905