K821x#15complaint
Mr K says Lottbridge Motoring Centre  Ltd (Lottbridge  Motoring)  mis-sold him single  premium  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies when he took out a loan.
background
In 2005 Mr K entered into a hire purchase  agreement to buy a motor vehicle. At the same 
time Lottbridge Motoring  sold him a PPI policy to cover his payments if he was unable to 
work due to accident or sickness or lost his job. This agreement was modified in 2008  and a 
further PPI policy  was sold to cover  this.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  he didnt think  there  was 
enough evidence  to show that Lottbridge Motoring had given Mr K the opportunity  during the 
sales to actively confirm  that he wanted  to take PPI out or highlighted that the PPI was a 
separate product from the loan.
Lottbridge Motoring disagreed. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Lottbridge Motoring had to make clear to Mr K that the PPI was optional and make sure Mr K 
agreed to take it. Mr K says this wasnt done.  Lottbridge Motoring say section 2 of the hire 
purchase agreement  shows the purchase of PPI was optional.
Ive been given both the agreements from 2005 and 2008 and Ive looked at these 
documents carefully. As Lottbridge Motoring has pointed out section 2 of the 2005 
agreement says This recommended  insurance  is optional. 
But this is in a very small font and barely readable, so I think  its unlikely Mr K wouldve seen 
this. And even if he had I note that the PPI section looks to be a standard  part of the 
agreement and in Mr Ks agreement the Nominated Person(s) and Date of birth parts 
havent been completed. And as such it isnt clear from this section that PPI has been taken.
So I havent seen  anything to show me that its been explained to Mr K or made clear that he 
doesnt have to take PPI or that he agreed  to buy the policy. And besides the cost of PPI in 
small print on the 2008 agreement there  is nothing here to show  me Mr K understood PPI 
was optional or that he agreed to take it.  
So I cant say from these  documents  how PPI came to be on Mr Ks credit agreement  and it 
follows that I uphold  his complaint.
what Lottbridge Motoring  should do to put things right
Ref: DRN19636642Mr K borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month.  So Mr K needs to get back  the extra  hes paid. 
So, Lottbridge Motoring should:
Work  out and pay Mr K the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr K paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from 
then on.
If Mr K made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Lottbridge Motoring can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Lottbridge Motoring  to take off tax from this interest.  
Lottbridge Motoring must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ks complaint against  Lottbridge  Motoring Centre 
Ltd and direct it pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.  
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1963664