K820x#14complaint
Ms S has complained that Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  unfairly registered her car as 
a category B total loss even though  it didn't  pay her motor  insurance claim.
background
Ms S was in an accident in which her car suffered heavy damage. She claimed on her policy  
and asked Admiral  to repair her car. Admiral said it was a category B total loss. That 
category of total loss means  that it cant ever be repaired  and returned  to the road.  Admiral  
recorded the total loss category on an external  shared  database. The information on that 
database is available to the DVLA, insurers and other interested  parties.  So an authorised 
individual or organisation accessing that database  can see that the car is a total loss and 
has been deemed unsafe to be returned  to the road. 
Admiral then refused  to pay Ms S claim.  Ms S didn't object to that decision but asked 
Admiral to remove the category B marker  from the shared database. Admiral initially said it 
would do so but then said it had made a mistake  and put the category B marker back.
Ms S didn't think that was fair and brought  her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  
looked into Ms S complaint. She thought Admiral had dealt with Ms S reasonably.  Ms S 
didn't agree so her complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I understand that Ms S own garage  believes it can safely  repair her car and return  it to the 
road. But because  Admiral has deemed  the car to be a category B total loss she can't do 
that. So, as well as Admiral refusing to pay her claim, its total loss decision has prevented  
her from repairing the car and using it herself or from selling it to someone who can repair it 
to be driven again.  Ms S asked what legal right Admiral has to put a total loss category on 
her car when it hasn't paid her for its loss. She said if she hadn't told Admiral about  the 
incident then it wouldn't  have known about  the cars damage and couldnt have put a total 
loss marker on it.
Ms S policy requires her to tell Admiral about any incident that could give rise to a claim. 
And in this case she did initially make a claim for the damage to her car. So Admiral was 
aware of that damage. The policy also says that in the event of a claim Admiral may both 
seek information from and share  information  with the shared database. And as Ms S agreed 
to the terms of the policy when she took it out she agreed to Admiral sharing information it 
learned from any claim she might make with the shared database. I don't think Admirals  
under any obligation to set out precisely  what that shared information might be in its policy 
document. So I think that Ms S essentially  gave Admiral permission to share  its finding  that 
her car was a total loss with the shared database  when she took out her policy.
Its worth  noting that when  putting  a total loss category on a car engineers follow  guidance 
from a recognised insurance industry code of practice. That guidance says that where 
engineers deem that a car isn't safe to go back on the road,  but some parts may be reused, 
then it should  be deemed a category  B total loss. In this case  Admirals in-house engineer 
deemed the car to be a category B. But after Ms S complained and said that her own garage  
Ref: DRN11113572had said the car was repairable, Admiral instructed an independent engineer  to assess the 
car. The independent engineer also deemed the car to be a category B total loss. And I 
havent seen a report from Ms S garage to counter the independent engineers opinion. So 
the only independent expert evidence I've seen said the car is a category B total loss. And 
the code of practice that Admiral follows says it should notify the shared database as soon 
as reasonably practical after deciding on the category of total loss. And thats what  Admiral  
did in this case when  its in-house engineer said that the car was a category B total loss.
I also think its worth pointing  out that the purpose of the shared database is to protect the 
general public and to prevent a car that isnt safe to be repaired from going back onto the 
road. And in this case Admiral had expert opinions from both its in-house engineer and an 
independent engineer that Ms S car wasnt safe to ever be returned to the road. Ms S hasn't 
provided any other evidence, from a suitably qualified  individual, that those expert  opinions  
were wrong. And Admiral followed the guidance  in the code of practice and reported that the 
car was a category B total loss to the shard database. In doing so it should prevent an 
unsafe car from returning to the road. So I think Admirals decision to notify the shared 
database that it considered Ms S car a category B total loss was reasonable, regardless that 
it didn't pay her claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1111357