K820x#14complaint
Ms L is unhappy at how Allay Claims Ltd dealt a claim in relation  to a mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms L instructed Allay to investigate potential PPI claims on her behalf. A claim against  
Lender B was successful  and Allay invoiced Ms L for their fees.  Because  their fees werent 
paid, Allay started legal  action to recover them. 
Ms L has complained  that Allay havent  been open with her. She says she didnt agree to a 
formal contract with Ally to use their chargeable service and Allay werent clear in what work  
they would  do - they didnt send their terms and conditions. Ms L has also complained that 
she received contradictory information from Allay saying they didnt have a valid authority to 
submit her claims.  She says she wasnt informed of Allays  charges, which  is why she 
doesnt agree with their invoice, and Allay  starting court  proceedings has made things worse.
Our investigator found Allay provided a reasonable service. She said Ms L instructed Allay  to 
act for her and Allay provided  her with a copy of their terms of business. She also said Allay 
charged the fees Ms L agreed to, and she thought Allay gave Ms L enough time to pay these 
before they took legal action against  her. Because of this she didnt think Allay  should do 
anything more.
Ms L didnt  agree with the investigator.  She says no successful claim came of the LOA that 
was jointly  signed  in 2018, and she feels Allay submitted her claim before  she signed an 
authority in 2019. Ms L has said this, and Allays lack of contact, shows a pattern of 
incompetence and regular  and systematic failures in [their] systems and processes. She 
feels any contact from Allay  wasnt  providing any claim  updates but was chasing their fee. 
Because of this she doesnt think any relationship she had with Allay  can be construed as 
being before  14/1/2019. Ms L also believes Allays invoice doesnt  comply with HMRCs 
codes and rules
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ms L instructed Allay to pursue potential mis-sold PPI claim, jointly with someone else,  in 
late 2018. Ive seen a Letter of Authority (LOA) signed by Ms L on 5 June 2018; and signed  
by the other person on 26 September 2018.  In signing this they agreed I/We have read this 
Letter of Authority and the Allay Claims Ltd. Terms of Engagement (a copy of which is 
overleaf) and agree to be bound by their contents.
The Terms of Engagement, printed on the reverse of the LOA,  confirmed that Allay would 
charge a fee of 36% plus VAT on the value of any successful claim. This also said Allay  
would carry out a free PPI check.  We will notify you once PPI has been  identified and 
automatically submit your complaint to the lender after 7 days, unless you notify us 
otherwise.
Ref: DRN17227532Allays case notes show they contacted Ms L in December 2018 to tell her theyd found  
shed been sold PPI. Because the PPI was on an account in Ms Ls sole name Allay 
obtained a new LOA. Ms L signed  this on 10 January 2019. In signing this Ms L again  
agreed to the Terms  of Engagement on the reverse of the LOA.  But Allays fees were 
different to what she originally agreed  to, and had reduced to 20% plus VAT.
In signing both LOAs, Ms L instructed Allay to act for her. Ive see nothing to show  me that 
Allay did any work for Ms L before they had her instruction to do so, and this instruction was 
first received  in late 2018 when the jointly signed  LOA was received by Allay.
And because the LOAs  had the Terms of Engagement printed on the reverse,  by signing the 
LOAs Ms L must have  received these. The Terms  of Engagement  clearly stated the service 
Allay would provide,  and the fees they would charge for this service. So I dont agree that 
Allay did anything wrong, or that they werent  open  with Ms L.
Ive seen from the evidence that Allay made a number of claims on Ms Ls behalf,  and a 
claim against Lender B was successful in February 2019. Ms L was awarded gross 
compensation of £16,620.63 and Allay charged  their fee of 20% plus VAT of the value of the 
successful claim. As Allay did the work Ms L instructed them to do, and because this claim 
against Lender B was successful, it was reasonable they invoiced Ms L in line with the 
Terms of Engagement she agreed to. Its not my role to say whether Allays invoice did or 
didnt comply with HMRCs codes and rules, but I am satisfied Allay were  invoicing the 
agreed amount  for work they were  instructed  to carry out.
Allay charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon  the amount of work they 
actually did. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for 
free. And where a claim was successful, Allays fee could  be more or less than the value  of 
the work  they actually did. This is the risk taken  by all parties in this type of agreement.  So, 
just because Allays  fee is higher than the value of the work they have done  for Ms L doesnt 
make their fee unjustified.
Allay invoiced  Ms L for their fee, but she didnt pay this. Allay sent reminders and told her 
that, if the fee remained unpaid, theyd take legal  action to recover  this. As Ms L didnt pay 
the fee after receiving the reminders,  Allay  started  court action to recover their fee. I dont 
think they did anything  wrong by doing  this. This court action has now been stayed while  the 
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service)  investigate Ms Ls 
complaint about  the service she received from Allay.
Ms L has also said that Allay have  provided her with contradictory information about the 
claim with Lender B  saying its been  successful,  but also saying they needed new authority 
to make a claim because the authority they had was invalid.  
Ive seen Allay emailed Ms L on 25 April 2019, saying theyd been trying to get in touch 
about her claim with Lender B. This email also contained a link to allow Ms L to make this 
claim. They also provided her with an update  in August 2019. This said a claim with Lender  
B had been  successful, and a claim with Lender B was ongoing.  Allay  looked into a number 
of claims for Ms L so I can see why Ms L could be confused by the seemingly contradictory 
updates she was receiving. But these two updates tell me that Allay  were looking into two 
separate claims against Lender B. So I dont agree theyd provided  contradictory information 
 theyd provided information on two different claims against the same lender. The second 
claim against Lender B was unsuccessful in October  2019.
Ref: DRN17227533my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint against  Allay Claims Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1722753