K821x#15complaint
Mr E has complained that Europ Assistance S.A. (EA) unreasonably refused to pay his claim 
under his travel policy.
background
Mr E was on holiday in the USA when he developed  sudden and severe back  pain. He 
sought medical treatment  at the same time, as informing EA. Then when he got home, he 
pursued his claim for the reimbursement of his medical expenses.
EA decided that because his MRI scan taken in the USA showed degenerative changes  in 
his back, his back problems must have been a pre-existing  illness,  which was excluded  
under the policy.  Mr Es GP confirmed  this wasnt the case, as Mr E had not suffered any 
back problems before travelling. But EA refused to reconsider its decision.
So Mr E brought  his complaint to us. The adjudicator thought it should be upheld. However, 
EA refused to consider the adjudicators view, given what its medical personnel  said, so Mr 
Es complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
EAs policy  in common with most  other travel policies clearly  excludes cover for pre-existing 
medical conditions.  It defines  that by requiring the policyholder to have been prescribed 
medication for it, and/or received treatment for it, and/or attended  a GP or specialist for it, 
within the last two years. 
Mr Es GP confirmed that before Mr E travelled on this trip, he was suffering no muscular  
skeletal problems. 
EA said that because the MRI showed degenerative disc disease  in Mr Es spine, that meant 
his problem he suffered  in his back whilst  on holiday, must have been pre-existing.  However,  
by its own definition, EA then needed  to show that Mr E was prescribed medication for it, 
and/or that he received treatment for it, and/or that he attended his GP or specialist for it, 
within the last two years. EA never asked his GP for this information. And his GP clearly said 
Mr E had no such problems before he travelled.
Therefore, I dont consider EA gathered any sufficient information  from Mr Es GP records, to 
allow it to say the cause of this claim was a result  of a pre-existing condition,  Consequently, I 
consider that its not reasonable for EA to infer a problem was pre-existing,  without adhering  
to its own policy definition  of what constitutes pre-existing. And then by also obtaining such  
evidence from Mr Es medical records to actually  show it was pre-existing. It hasnt done that 
here and consequently  I consider it now has to pay Mr Es claim in accordance  with the 
remaining policy conditions. 
EA should note that if Mr E accepts my decision  that means my decision is then legally 
binding on it.
Ref: DRN15336822my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Europ  Assistance S.A. to the following:
Pay Mr Es claim subject to the remainder  of its policy terms and conditions.
Add interest of 8% per year from the date it refused  to pay Mr Es claim to the date it 
refunds him.*
*If Europ  Assistance  S.A. considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr E how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr E a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1533682