K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Currencies Direct Ltd promised that they would get an 
unbeatable exchange rate when they sold a large  amount in Euros  to sterling. They  later 
found a better rate, and say they have  lost over £15,000. 
background
In October  2018 Mr and Mrs T went  to a branch of Currencies Direct in Spain to change 
nearly €400,000  into sterling. They say they were told the exchange rate they were  offered 
was the best available and agreed  to go ahead  on that basis. But when they later checked, 
they found a better rate. Had they exchanged their money at that rate, they would have 
received around  an additional £15,000.  
When they complained,  Currencies  Direct said that Mr and Mrs T were given the exchange 
rate they agreed to. Whilst they might have discussed the advantages of using their service 
rather than those of competitors, the business  could not guarantee that they were always  
offering the most competitive rates. Currencies Direct also pointed  out that the rates  to which  
Mr and Mrs T referred were likely to be commercial rates, available  to banks and other 
institutions dealing  in large volumes,  but not to individual retail customers.
Mr and Mrs T asked  us to look at things, but our investigator agreed with Currencies Direct. 
He didnt think there was any real evidence that Currencies Direct guaranteed that their rates 
could not be beaten. Mr and Mrs T didnt accept the investigators conclusions  and so Ive 
reviewed the case afresh  as the final stage  in our consideration  of it.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for the same reasons. 
My starting point is the contract note itself. That sets out the rate that was to be applied, 
which is the rate Mr and Mrs T were  given. It didnt suggest that they were getting the best 
rate available or anything similar. The general  terms and conditions  didnt say that either,  
and I havent seen any marketing or similar material making that claim.  
I have no doubt  that Currencies  Direct do claim to offer better currency  exchange rates  than, 
say, many high street  banks. But thats  not the same  as a guarantee to provide the best rate. 
I think it most unlikely that they would make such a claim, given they have no control over 
what other providers might be offering in a market  which is constantly changing. I also think 
its likely  that any better rates that Mr and Mrs T might  have found  were, in reality,  
wholesale rates rather than rates that would have been available  to them.      
my final decision
For these reasons Im not requiring Currencies Direct Ltd to do anything  more to resolve 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision  before 4 August 2019. 
Ref: DRN18523292Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1852329