K821x#15complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the advice he received from Anthony Feeney  Financial  Services 
(AFFS) to transfer his existing pension plan into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). 
The reason  for making the transfer was to allow  Mr J to invest in store pods through  Store 
First. Mr Js complaint  is made, on his behalf, by his representative. 
background
During 2013, Mr J was put in touch with AFFS by an unregulated third party.  It seems the 
third party had told him about  investing his pension in store pods. So he spoke to AFFS 
about this. An adviser from AFFS carried out a review of his circumstances.  It then advised  
Mr J to transfer his existing personal pension plan to a SIPP. This was so he could then 
invest in store pods,  an unregulated investment. 
I understand that in December 2013 the transfer  value  of Mr Js existing  pension  was, 
around £31,800. This existing pension was transferred to the SIPP. This was at the end of 
2013 / beginning of 2014. About £18,750,500 was then invested in store pods. In March  
2014 AFFS advised Mr J to invest a further £4,905.40 in a Nucleus portfolio. Its not clear if 
this last investment  went ahead. But this doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. The 
store pods now appear to be illiquid. Mr J is worried hes lost the value  of his investment. 
So in January 2017 Mr J complained, via his representative, to AFFS about  the advice hed 
received. In brief, he said AFFS hadnt  followed the relevant rules and regulations; it had 
tried to restrict the advice  it had given; the advice  was unsuitable for his circumstances; the 
assessment of his attitude to risk wasnt  adequate; and, as his attitude to risk was recorded  
as balanced, the recommended product was high risk. So Mr J wants compensation for the 
money he says hes lost. 
It seems  that AFFS didnt provide a response  to Mr J. So he brought  his complaint  to our 
service. One of our adjudicators looked  into it. In summary, he thought the complaint should 
be upheld. The adjudicator said: there  wasnt any evidence that the fees involved in the 
transfer were justified; there was no evidence that Mr J had any investment experience;  
AFFS didnt give Mr J a like for like comparison of his potential future benefits; the risk 
warnings given to Mr J werent sufficient: and overall, the transfer  wasnt suitable for him. 
The adjudicator went on to explain what AFFS needed to do to put things right.  
AFFS didnt agree with the adjudicators view. Again in summary, it said Mr J wanted to 
access his tax free cash  he could only do this by transferring his pension  to a SIPP. AFFS 
also said risk warnings  were explicitly given. But it did admit the benefit comparison should 
have been explained better. 
As AFFS  didnt agree  with the adjudicators  view,  this complaint has been passed  to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN14706872First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  and in my own 
words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point  made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here:  
was AFFSs advice to Mr J to transfer  his existing pensions to a SIPP  suitable?  
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome. 
Ill now turn to the matter of our jurisdiction. AFFS sent us a legal  opinion  that store  pods 
arent an unregulated  collective investment  scheme (UCIS). Although  AFFS hasnt explicitly 
questioned our jurisdiction  to look at this complaint, Ive seen arguments  made  in similar  
circumstances that as store pods arent an UCIS,  any advice to invest in them isnt an 
activity covered by our service. 
For completeness, and the avoidance of doubt,  advice  to invest in store  pods isnt the 
activity Im looking  at. Im looking at the advice Mr J was given to open a SIPP. That is a 
regulated activity. It doesnt matter whether or not the store pods investment was an UCIS. 
The rules  that AFFS had to follow are set out in the regulators handbook. The advice given  
to Mr J needed to take into account  the relevant rules. This is irrespective of whether the 
store pods investment was or wasnt a regulated product. The regulations required the 
advice given to Mr J to be suitable. To do that, AFFS  had to get enough information about  
his circumstances.   
AFFS completed a fact find for Mr J. This was signed by him in October 2013. It recorded 
some of his personal  circumstances. But not a lot of detail was included. For instance,  while 
it stated that Mr J paid maintenance for his sons,  no other outgoings  were  listed.  Also, there  
was no mention of  Mr J having any assets,  savings or other  investments other than his 
existing pension plan.  
The fact find listed five levels of risk under a section titled risk and reward.  These  ranged  
from very cautious to speculative.  The third box balanced  was ticked. This attitude to 
risk was explained as: 
You prefer to invest in broad range of core stock-market linked Investments, where  the 
overall returns achieved  are more closely linked to the performance of the underlying assets. 
In so doing, this will provide  you with the potential to benefit from real capital growth. 
However, you should be aware  that investment values will fluctuate according  to market 
conditions. 
The following  was also ticked:
I am an infrequent investor. However,  I have a reasonable working  knowledge and 
understanding of investment markets and the relationship between risk and reward  in those  
markets. 
But theres no detail  on how Mr Js attitude  to risk or level of investment knowledge was 
assessed. The available evidence points to him having very limited investment knowledge, if 
any at all. Mr J certainly doesnt seem  to have invested in high risk speculative products 
Ref: DRN14706873before. Other  than his existing  pension,  theres no indication he had any other  investments 
at all. 
I think Mr Js attitude  to risk was, at most, no more than balanced. I say this because another  
section of the fact find stated that his existing  pension plan was a significant proportion of his 
financial wealth. The fact find said he didnt want to take any unnecessary risks with his 
pension. 
With Mr Js apparent lack of investment experience, Im satisfied he was relying on AFFS to 
give him suitable advice. Whatever his actual attitude to risk was, it was also important  for 
AFFS to look at Mr Js capacity to take that risk. I can see the fact find gave his yearly  
income as around  £21,000. As Ive just said, Mr Js existing pension was a significant 
proportion of his financial wealth. Understandably, he didnt want  to take any risks with it. So 
Mr J couldnt afford  for his investment to fall in value, or be lost completely. 
Later in the fact find, Mr J was asked if he was planning to invest in an unregulated or 
alternative investment.  The answer  Store First was given. The handwritten note at the 
bottom of this section  stated: 
 I am keen to have ownership  of a physical asset  as oppose  (sic) to volatile stocks/shares. I 
like that I can guarantee  for at least two years  but happy to rely on storage market  for returns 
after 2nd year.  
But this is contradictory  in various  ways.  If Mr J was unhappy with the volatility of stocks  and 
shares, a specialised, unregulated investment like store  pods wouldnt be any less volatile, 
and if anything would likely to be more so. Mr Js balanced attitude  to risk and his wish not to 
take unnecessary  risks with his pension is also at odds with this note. So I dont think I can 
rely on its accuracy. 
AFFS then issued a financial planning report.  Ive assumed this was provided to Mr J after 
the fact find was completed. The copy Ive seen isnt signed or dated. This again recorded  
that Mr J was an infrequent investor  with a reasonable  knowledge of investments. It said Mr 
J especially  liked the control that a SIPP would give by allowing  him to take a more  active  
role in choosing  what he deemed were  suitable investments rather  than the traditional funds 
in his existing  plan. 
The investment strategy section stated Mr J sought advice from AFFS about the intention of 
investing in commercial property, storage pods in particular. It said he hadnt sought  advice 
about the suitability of this investment and had stated he understood the additional  risks 
associated with such an investment. But I think Mr Js level of understanding  is questionable 
given his acknowledged lack of investment experience. 
Even after the risks had been explained to Mr J, given  his limited knowledge of investments,  
Im not satisfied he would  have had a good  enough understanding  of the risks to adequately 
judge the suitability of the store pods investment. Mr J would have been heavily reliant on 
AFFS. 
In any event, the report then went on to consider the proposed store  pod investment. It said 
AFFS had done  research to familiarise itself with the investment. It listed  some of the risks 
involved. This included investing in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large 
part of Mr Js pension assets  bringing considerable risk.
Ref: DRN14706874This section  of the report ended by saying  in bold type  that Mr Js fund shouldnt  be 
placed in one asset class.  Instead, it should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a 
number of asset classes. But at the time,  the report didnt make  any recommendation of 
alternative investments  that could be used. 
I can see that in March 2014, after the transfer to the SIPP  and the store pods  investment  
took place, AFFS did contact Mr J about another investment.  It recommended that he should 
make an additional  investment  in a Nucleus portfolio.  This was for £,4,095.40. Two months 
later, AFFS repeated  this recommendation to Mr J. As I said above, its not clear if this 
investment went ahead.  But this doesnt  affect the outcome of this complaint. 
While dealing with this complaint, Im very aware that the regulator, the Financial  Conduct  
Authority, and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority, issued alerts about  advising 
on pension transfers.  These dealt  with transfers  to invest pension  funds into unregulated 
products through a SIPP. One of these was published in early January 2013,  some months 
before the advice  given by AFFS. Another one was issued in April 2014. These alerts didnt 
change or alter the regulations in any way. Instead, they simply re-stated the principles that 
were already  in place  when AFFS advised Mr J. 
The 2013  alert clearly stated the regulators position  when it said: 
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating . 
Im satisfied it wasnt possible  for AFFS to advise  Mr J on the suitability  of the SIPP  without 
also considering  how he planned to invest. Its very clear  to me that AFFS knew all along  
that Mr J intended  to invest in store pods. With this in mind, I dont think  it was suitable to 
advise Mr J to transfer his existing pension into a SIPP to allow him to make this investment. 
AFFS says it did set out some risks of investing  in store pods in the suitability report.  These 
were: 
Investment in a single undertaking  or having one investment as a large part of a 
schemes assets brings considerable risk. 
The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are 
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would 
appear to provide  a guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing  the property, 
however after the initial period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of 
return. 
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
un-occupancy, surplus funds  may have to be used up to cover  the annual  SIPP  fees,  
service charge, buildings insurance and electricity rent in addition  to the nominal 
Ref: DRN14706875ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions to the 
scheme if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.  
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity. 
 The investment comes with a buy back guarantee  which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company. 
As Ive already  said, the report went on to say I recommend that your fund  is not placed 
within one asset class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across a number 
of asset classes. But I dont think this goes  far enough. There  was no warning to Mr J that 
all of his investment was potentially  at risk. Given Mr Js limited investment experience, Im 
not satisfied he realised the extent of the risk he was taking with his existing pension. AFFS 
should have been much clearer  in its warnings to him. 
The store pods investment was unregulated. It was a specialised, non-mainstream  type of 
investment. I think it was also a high risk investment that wasnt suitable for somebody  with 
Mr Js low capacity  for loss, and balanced attitude to risk. AFFS identified  this type of 
investment as inherently illiquid. The available evidence doesnt show me that Mr J was fully 
aware of the risks involved in investing  in store  pods. Im satisfied the investment wasnt 
suitable for him  and thats  what AFFS should  have told him. 
Im satisfied that given  a realistic assessment of Mr Js pension  situation and his 
requirements, he wouldnt have  transferred  his existing pension to the SIPP.  I think  the extra 
charges normally associated with a SIPP werent justified. The yearly  SIPP  fees and AFFS 
commission totalled over 5% of Mr Js pension fund  and this doesnt  include the likely  
initial SIPP fees and solicitors fees normally associated with a store pods investment. 
I think suitable advice  should have been not to invest  in store pods. If that advice had been 
given, I dont see why Mr J would  have transferred his existing  pension  to the SIPP.  There  
would have been no need for the SIPP.  So the advice to open a SIPP was unsuitable for Mr 
Js circumstances. 
I can see AFFS have said that Mr J wanted to access his tax free cash. It says at the time,  
the only way Mr J could  do this was to transfer  to the SIPP.  But while  I agree it was noted on 
the fact find and financial planning  report that Mr J wanted his tax free cash,  theres no detail 
at all why this was the case. Nor have  Mr J or his representative told us that there  was a 
specific need for this. Theres nothing in the available evidence to show Mr J did actually 
take a tax free lump  sum from the SIPP. 
On balance, I think its most likely that the idea of taking a tax free lump  sum was probably  
suggested to Mr J by the unregulated introducer   the same  person who also first suggested  
store pods to him. In any event, this doesnt  affect the outcome of the complaint. For the 
reasons Ive outlined  above, AFFS shouldnt have advised Mr J to transfer  his existing 
pension to a SIPP to allow the store pods investment. 
fair compensation
Ref: DRN14706876My aim is to put Mr J into the position he would likely now be in had he been given suitable 
advice. I think if Mr J had been given suitable  advice, he may have kept his previous pension 
or he may have invested it slightly differently. 
Its not possible for to say precisely what he would have done. But Im satisfied that what Ive 
set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Js circumstances and objectives  when he 
invested  and the outcome is broadly similar  in any event. 
what should  AFFS do?
To compensate Mr J fairly, AFFS must do the following:
It must compare the performance of Mr Js investment with that of the benchmark  shown.  If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value there  is a loss and compensation is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is payable. 
If there is a loss, AFFS should  pay into Mr Js pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if 
it would  conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
I think its unlikely AFFS will be able to pay the compensation into Mr Js pension  plan. If this 
is the case, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have  provided a taxable  income. Therefore the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Js actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax in retirement. I think Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. The reduction 
should equal the current basic  rate of tax. However,  as Mr J would have been able to take a 
tax free lump sum, the reduction should  be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
AFFS should pay to Mr J £300 for the disruption caused to his retirement planning. 
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
isnt paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
AFFS should add interest  as set out below.  Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest  it should tell Mr J how much  has been  taken  
off. AFFS should give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN14706877AFFS should provide  details of its calculation to Mr J in a clear, simple format.  
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it couldnt be readily  sold on the open market)  as in this case.  
So, the actual  value should  be assumed to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. AFFS 
should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to 
the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as I set out above.
If AFFS is unable to purchase the investment,  it may require that Mr J provides an 
undertaking to pay AFFS any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. AFFS will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking. 
It is very likely that Mr J will have to maintain  the SIPP for a period of time as the store pods 
cant be sold, which will prevent the SIPP from being  closed. If the firm is unable to buy the 
store pods from the SIPP provider, they should  pay Mr J five years worth  of SIPP fees to 
compensate him for these  costs.  
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if AFFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Mr J wanted capital  growth and was willing  to accept  some investment risk. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr Js 
circumstances and risk attitude. 
Ref: DRN14706878my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Anthony Feeney Financial Services should 
calculate the loss and pay compensation to Mr J as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 July 2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN1470687