K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a joint mortgage with Halifax in 2000. They also took out PPI to 
protect their monthly mortgage repayments  in the event that they couldnt both work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with our adjudicators 
view. Mr and Mrs Hs main complaint is that they both had very secure jobs and their sick 
pay and redundancy benefits  meant  they didnt need PPI. 
Mr and Mrs H asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Its understandable  that Mr and Mrs H mightnt  be able to remember in detail everything that 
happened when  they arranged their mortgage. This was a long time ago and I cant safely  
rely only on what they say now. I have  to decide what  I think is most likely taking into 
account all the information Ive got and the wider circumstances. 
I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs H aware  that the PPI was optional with their mortgage and 
that they chose  to have it. I can see that theres a section on their mortgage application 
headed Accident,  sickness  and unemployment insurance. It says here:  We recommend 
that you consider  our Mortgage Repayments Insurance Scheme.  Mr and Mrs H both signed  
this part of the form to have  PPI  next to where it says: Yes, I would like to take advantage 
of Mortgage Repayments  Insurance . And Mr and Mrs H have both signed the mortgage 
application at the end. 
Mr and Mrs H also completed a separate PPI application where they put down both their 
names to be insured - and they both signed  the completed form to get the policy.  
I think the wording and layout of the paperwork shows  that Mr and Mrs H were  made  aware 
that it was up to them to choose if they wanted to take out the policy  with their mortgage  
and that they opted to do this at the time.
Halifax says it recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs H. So Ive checked to see whether it 
was right for them. 
Mr and Mrs H were both eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the terms and 
conditions that applied. 
Ref: DRN15112192Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs H told us they were  both entitled to 6 months  full 
sick pay followed by 6 months half pay. But if they made a successful  accident  or sickness  
claim the policy wouldve  paid out on top of their sick pay, in full and for significantly longer  - 
up to 24 months per claim. This couldve been useful if Mr and Mrs H faced extra costs as a 
result of either or both of them being  too ill or disabled to work   especially as they wouldve 
only had half pay after the first 6 months  off work.  
And PPI wouldve covered them if theyd become unexpectedly unemployed. The policy 
provided long term protection as Mr and Mrs H couldve made repeated  claims on it. 
Although Mr and Mrs H both had secure jobs, this doesnt mean that PPI was unsuitable  for 
their needs.  Even if the possibility of being  made  redundant  seemed unlikely, there can be 
no guarantee that any job will remain secure  indefinitely. PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to 
any redundancy money they mightve  got, giving Mr and Mrs H some  additional financial 
security in those circumstances.
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But as far as I can see they werent  affected  by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover and they couldve claimed in all the circumstances they might 
reasonably have expected to. So, I dont think its likely that being  told more information  
about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve affected their decision to take it out. 
The monthly premium for the PPI was set out on the application  form Mr and Mrs H filled in 
to get the cover. So they wouldve  been aware  of this extra cost when they signed up for the 
policy. And it looks like Mr and Mrs H also took out some extra benefit to cover mortgage 
related costs  like household bills. So it seems  Mr and Mrs H were  happy to pay for the 
cover they wanted  at the time and it seems to have been affordable for them. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs H still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  even if theyd been better 
informed as the policy gave them useful protection in their particular situation.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1511219