K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs U complain that they were sold a life cover policy by Santander UK Plc (trading 
as National & Provincial (N&P)). Theyve said they were told they had to have the policy  for 
their mortgage to be approved. 
background
Mr and Mrs U saw an adviser  in 1991  as they wanted to take out a mortgage. They were 
advised to take out a policy that provided £35,000  of cover on a decreasing term basis over 
a term of 20 years. They took the policy out in joint names and the policy was cancelled  in 
2003. They  complained to Santander  in 2018.
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary,  they said:
Mr and Mrs U would  have been provided  with documentation at the time by N&P which 
clearly explained  the type of policy they had in place. This would  have provided  details 
about the benefits and conditions of the plan. Information would have been included 
about cancellation rights, and the cooling  off period in case they decided  to cancel the 
policy. 
It has never been a condition of getting a mortgage with Santander or N&P that life cover  
must be taken out. 
The policy covered  the £35,000  of the mortgage that wasnt protected by an existing joint 
endowment plan which provided  £30,000 of cover.
The policy was suitable  as there  was a clear need to protect the policy  if Mr or Mrs U had 
died. The policy was set up over the same  term as the mortgage and would have 
reduced in line with the mortgage.
While  they appreciated that Mr and Mrs U had employee benefits at the time of the sale, 
it wasnt industry practice to take these into account  when considering  protection needs.
It wasnt possible to access video or audio recordings of the meeting Mr and Mrs U had 
with the advisor  or any subsequent phone calls. So, they were unable to determine what  
was said to Mr and Mrs U. But they had no reason to dispute the documented  
information.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  He 
was unable to find any documentary evidence which showed that Mr and Mrs U were told 
they had to have this policy. He was also satisfied that the policy was not unsuitable for their 
circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN12767872Mr and Mrs U didnt agree with him. In summary, they said:
The final day for bids on the property was only days away and they were only able to 
obtain a loan from N&P on the condition they accepted the insurance.
The condition was made over the phone and they reluctantly accepted the condition in 
order to submit their bid in time.
They neither  needed nor wanted this insurance.
The policy was clearly  defined  as a Joint mortgage protection  plan and not as a 
Decreasing term policy.
The cost of the premiums was increased because their older  years  were averaged into 
the premiums.
The amount  they paid in premiums was too high a percentage of the sum assured.
They werent given  the opportunity to shop  around for cheaper Buildings  and Contents  
Insurance.
They asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and make a decision.
Its important to note at this point  that any concerns Mr and Mrs U have about the sale of the 
buildings and contents policy they took out will need  to be raised directly with Santander  in 
the first instance.
My decision  here only focuses on the life insurance policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
I understand how strongly Mr and Mrs U feel about their complaint. Theyve made several 
submissions to support  their complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However,  
my decision  focuses on what I consider  to be the matters at the heart of their complaint, so I 
wont address every  single point  theyve raised.
is the policy Payment  Protection Insurance (PPI) or Decreasing Term Assurance (DTA)
Briefly, a PPI policy would pay an income  benefit  equivalent to the monthly costs of a loan 
which could enable Mr and Mrs U to make  the loan repayments if either  of them  were  ever 
made unemployed or suffered long term illness or incapacity that prevented  them from 
working.
On the other hand, a DTA policy is a life assurance policy  which provides a lump  sum if 
either Mr or Mrs U died during the policy term. The lump sum could then be used to repay 
any outstanding  mortgage debt.
So, even though the policy Mr and Mrs U took out was referred to as a Mortgage Protection  
Plan, it was not a PPI policy as it provided  a lump sum not an income  benefit.  Therefore, 
some of the concerns Mr and Mrs U have raised about  the policy, such as the amount they 
paid in premiums being  too high a percentage of the sum assured doesnt apply. 
Ref: DRN12767873was the policy a condition of the mortgage
One of the main issues Mr and Mrs U have  raised  is that they were told they had to have the 
policy to get the mortgage  they wanted.  The only evidence they were told this is their 
recollection of what happened  in 1991. While I dont doubt their recollections of what they 
were told, I must balance  this against  the information recorded.  
The mortgage offer letter  makes  no reference to having to take out a life policy.  So, having  
taken everything into account, and in particular the mortgage offer letter,  Im not persuaded 
there is sufficient evidence to support Mr and Mrs Us version  of events. 
the cost of the premiums
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs U have said about  the cost of the premiums  being 
increased because  their older  years were averaged into the premiums.  Having  done  so, I do 
not think this is unreasonable. 
Monthly premiums for policies providing  life cover, whether  the cover is fixed or reduces, are 
calculated on a level premium basis to account  for the amount of cover at any time and the 
risk of meeting a claim increasing with age.
In other  words, at the start of the policy,  the risk of a claim when  the life assured is younger 
is less than at the end of the term of the policy when the life assured is older. However,  the 
premium charged is a level premium which may be more than is required to cover the risk 
of a claim in the early  years and any surplus  premium is held in reserve when the same  
premium is insufficient to cover this risk in the later years.
Otherwise, if the correct  premium for the risk was charged each year, it would be lower  at
the start of the policy and greater towards the end of the policy, which may not be desirable
for policyholders  as they become older. 
suitability of the policy
I have also considered whether the policy was a suitable recommendation based  on their 
needs. 
From what  Ive seen, the policy didnt  cover the full amount of the mortgage.  The policy had 
an initial sum assured  of £35,000 but the outstanding mortgage amount was £65,000. I know 
Santander have  said that the remaining £30,000  left uncovered  by the life protection  was 
covered by an endowment plan Mr and Mrs U held. However I have seen no evidence  of 
this. And while Mr and Mrs U have provided some  information about  an endowment plan, 
this only provided  cover  for Mr U and also didnt have a target amount  of £30,000.
So, potentially there was a risk that the mortgage wouldnt have been paid if a claim had 
been made. However, the policy was cancelled  in 2003 when Mr and Mrs Us mortgage  was 
redeemed, so thankfully that risk didnt materialise. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr and Mrs U have suffered a loss because the 
policy didnt cover the full amount of the mortgage.  If the policy had been  set up for the 
correct amount, then the premiums would have  been higher.  So, Mr and Mrs U have 
benefitted from paying lower premiums  than they would have done had the policy been set 
up with a sum assured of £65,000.  
Ref: DRN12767874So, taking everything  into account, Im not going to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 January 2020.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1276787