K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that MBNA Limited rejected his claim under Section  75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in respect of repairs  to a car.
background
In April 2018 Mr M bought  a second  hand  car. It was some  eight  years  old and had done 
111,000 miles. The invoice shows a figure £2,250, but Mr M says that he paid this by credit 
card and the balance of £2,000 in cash,  but he wasnt given a receipt  for the cash.
A little over week after buying the car an engine warning light came  on and the car was 
losing power whilst driving. He told the dealer about  this and ran a diagnostic  test which 
indicated there were problems with the diesel particulate filter (DPF).  The following day he 
told the dealer  that there was a loud noise and a spring had broken.
He had some repairs  carried out and made a claim under  Section 75. MBNA refused this 
and said the evidence showed he had paid a reduced sum for the car because of the fault 
and the dealer had made him aware of the problem.  
Mr M brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. She noted  the car was advertised for 
£4,489 and although the invoice showed Mr M had only paid £2,250 she didnt think  was 
correct. Mr M had provided several  text messages with the dealer and these seemed to 
show he had paid £4,250. 
However, she noted the invoice gave a brief description to explain why the car was 
unwarranted and was sold on an as seen basis. A section recording  the car had done  more 
than 75,000 miles had been ticked and the box explaining that the car is being sold as 
seen in return for a discounted price was also ticked.
MBNA had supplied a pre-delivery inspection note, which had details of the DPF light 
coming on which means the car should  be sold as seen, without any warranty.  Mr M had 
signed this and the investigator said this suggested Mr M was made aware  and agreed that 
the fault was present.
In the circumstances she didnt believe Mr M had a valid claim under Section 75. Mr M didnt 
agree and said he hadnt looked at what he was signing when he bought  the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr Ms transaction with the dealer was financed by credit supplied to him by 
MBNA, section 75 of the CCA1974 is a factor that needs to be taken into account when 
dealing with his complaint. In simple terms, section 75 gives Mr M an equal right to claim 
against MBNA or the dealer for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the dealer.
While I have some concerns about  the sale by the dealer I am not persuaded that MBNA 
should uphold  Mr Ms claim under section 75. I agree with the investigator that Mr M paid 
£4,250 for the car and may also have  part exchanged his old car. However, the invoice 
Ref: DRN18111072shows that he paid £2,250. It may be this was an error by the dealer or it may be that he had 
other reasons to record a reduced  sale price.
The invoice and the pre delivery inspection note both record  that the car was sold as seen 
without a warranty. The inspection note which has been signed by Mr M clearly states: 
Vehicle  DPF light on. Vehicle  will be sold without any warranty . It seems that the price paid 
by Mr M was reduced to reflect its condition.  From my own researches it seems the car was 
sold at a discount, though  not as much as MBNA has suggested.
I have also checked  the cars MOT history and see that it passed a test shortly before it was 
bought by Mr M and there was no reference to the DPF being  faulty.  It is possible for a DPF 
to fail on a car which has done such a high mileage so even if there hadnt been a warning  
about it I would find it difficult to uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 3 June  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1811107