K820x#14complaint
Ms A says:
From  September 2007 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited (Investec) became her 
discretionary portfolio  manager (DPM).
It was supposed  to follow her instructions to reduce the size of her Royal  Bank of 
Scotland (RBS) shareholding in order to balance her portfolio and reduce risk 
exposure. It was to do so mindful of her exposure  to capital gains tax (CGT). 
Investec was supposed to do this promptly after it became her DPM but it failed to do 
so until the aftermath of RBS  problems around  a year later in 2008, resulting in a 
substantial loss.
background
One of our investigators  considered the merits of the complaint and concluded that it should 
not be upheld.  In the main, she said:
Both parties had agreed to reduce the RBS shareholding by selling  only at an 
appropriate price   given that the share price in September 2007 had dropped  
markedly from what it was earlier in that year.
In this context, it was not unreasonable for Investec to have waited to see how the 
market performed before proceeding with the sale(s)  especially as it took the view 
at the time that the price drop was a temporary matter.
The argument about executing the sale(s)  at the outset of the DPM arrangement is 
based on the benefit of hindsight.
Ms A disagreed with this outcome. She made  the following main points:
Reference to or suggestion that she instructed or agreed the sale of her RBS shares  
at any particular price is inaccurate. Despite the drop in price  at the time, she  
would have been happy to accept selling at a much  lower  price, simply in order  to 
reduce [her] risk. Her instruction to Investec was to sell the majority  of the shares  as 
quickly as possible and the only caveat was to avoid CGT  liability.  She made  this 
clear during two meetings leading to the DPM arrangement. 
Her portfolio  had a medium risk profile  and both parties agreed that she was 
overexposed to the RBS shareholding,  so its reduction was also supposed to 
balance the portfolio  to match the medium risk profile.
An Investec letter to her dated 11 October 2007  refers to clarifying whether or not 
there was a capital  gain in the RBS holding. This is evidence of her instruction  to sell 
the shares quickly, otherwise establishing a capital gain (in terms of CGT)  would not 
have been a live issue.
At no time between  September  2007 (when  she gave the instruction) and November 
2008 (around when RBS problems  significantly  devalued her shares)  did she 
withdraw her instruction.
Investec breached her initial instruction, compounded that breach by its delay  over 
around a year  in selling the shares, and breached its contractual  DPM obligation to 
balance her portfolio  to the medium risk profile/mandate.
The investigators view  that Investecs wait and see approach  towards the market 
was not unreasonable  might explain a scenario where it sold most of the holding  
but withheld a reasonable proportion. The view is less credible  in the context  of the 
RBS holding representing almost her entire  portfolio and in the context of the 
Ref: DRN11592572instruction to sell the shares (with the CGT caveat)  arising from the need to balance 
such overexposure. 
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view and the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Summary of key available evidence
Ms As submissions  stand as her evidence  distinct  from the documents  she has 
referred to. However the need remains to consider available and relevant 
documentary evidence  including the documents she has referred to.
The June  2007 DPM related client agreement  between both parties, confirms 
Investecs discretion to manage  Ms As portfolio based on a balanced income  and 
growth objective, on a medium risk profile and on a bespoke  option to reinvest  
income for capital  growth. There is also reference to using her annual  CGT 
allowance and not going beyond that. There are sections for specific investment 
instructions, restrictions and provisions  no specific  instructions, restrictions  or 
provisions are stated.
Investecs letters to Ms A of 12 September and 11 October 2007 suggest  that the 
transfer of her portfolio to its discretionary management began around the former 
date and was concluding around the latter date. The latter  included  attached  
information about the portfolios contents  and value(s). The portfolio was worth 
around £190,000. As Ms A says, the RBS shares  occupied a significant  majority of 
the portfolio  over 80%. Also as she says, the 11 October letter  refers  to 
establishing  whether  there is a capital  gain on the holding 
There is an internal Investec email chain  on 22 October 2007 based on the same 
account reference number used in other  correspondence with Ms A. It is about 
excluding the RBS holding for fees purposes  and it includes the following  
The intention is to reduce  the RBS holding over time and funds reinvested and this 
money will then be eligible for fees.
The Investec DPMs letter to Ms A, dated  11 January 2008, includes the following  
Given  the current level of the Royal Bank  share price I do not think  that we are likely 
to carry out any disposals  prior to the end of the tax year unless  there is a marked 
recovery in price. Under the current Capital Gains Tax rules  any disposals at this 
stage are likely to realise a tax loss rather than a tax gain.
In April 2008 the DPM sent Ms A her half yearly valuation report, the covering letter 
includes the following   
 the past six months has obviously been disappointing with the value declining by 
32.4%  The main contributing feature has been  the continued fall in the price  of 
Ref: DRN11592573Royal Bank of Scotland shares  over this period. Hopefully  the pending rights issue 
will help to stabilise the share price  in the long run 
Given  the large  size of your holding  I would be inclined to let the rights  issue 
lapse and use the cash from this to diversify  slightly. This would still leave you with a 
sizeable exposure to a longer term recovery in the Royal Bank of Scotland  share  
price which hopefully the stronger capital base  should help to promote.
There is an email from Ms A to the DPM dated  14 October 2008. It includes the 
following  
Im not quite sure what the plan should be so looking for some advice. So long as 
we are not into an armagedon  scenario, there is value in RBS but will take some time 
to come through, I do not want to take any cash but do not want to lose any more.
Later in October, Ms A was sent another half yearly valuation  report  and covering 
letter. Both parties met in November and Investec wrote to her again on 12 
November. Both letters and the meeting were  about  the significant devaluation  of her 
RBS holding following  the onset of RBS  widely publicised escalated  problems  at the 
time. The meeting  notes  refer to an agreement at the outset to dispose of the shares 
at an appropriate price and Investecs position  was that it had been waiting for such 
a price. The November letter declares  Investecs  proposal  to dispose  of around three 
quarters of the RBS holding  in the circumstances as they were at the time.
Conclusions
The DPM arrangement  between the parties sets an important context for this complaint. If 
there is evidence of an express  instruction  from Ms A to Investec, as part of the 
arrangement, which  should  have been  executed but was not her complaint about  a breach of 
such an instruction should  arguably  succeed. The same applies if there  is evidence  of 
Investec mismanaging  the portfolio by breaching its mandate. 
By the same token, if there  is no or insufficient evidence of the alleged  instruction  or 
breach of it  and if there is no or insufficient  evidence of Investec breaching the portfolios 
mandate, the complaint  should arguably not succeed.
I appreciate that not all of the conversations between the parties are reflected in the 
documents that have been  made available to us. However, the task remains  to determine 
the complaint  based on available evidence. As summarised above,  the client agreement for 
the DPM arrangement  did not feature any express and specific instructions, restrictions  or 
provisions from Ms A to Investec which had the effect of qualifying  its discretion over the 
portfolio. 
Having said the above, wider evidence  establishes that CGT management was relevant to 
the portfolios  mandate  but the complaint does not allege that Investec  did anything wrong 
in this respect  and that there was initially an agreed plan to reduce the RBS shareholding. 
The parties differ on how this was to happen.  Ms A says it ought to have been done promptly  
at the outset but Investecs internal email suggests  there was no urgency in the plan and that 
the reduction was to take place over time. There is also dispute over the notion of making 
the share sale(s) dependent on an appropriate price. 
Ref: DRN11592574What appears to be beyond dispute is that Ms A was sent information around three months 
and then six months after the DPM  arrangement  began  that is, the January and April 2008 
letters mentioned  above  showing that the holding  remained in her portfolio  and that its 
value had declined.  I have not seen  documentary evidence  of a response from her at the 
time in which  she queried why the holding had not been reduced already.  The letters 
declared the DPMs plan to continue retaining the holding in order to benefit  from a possible 
recovery in the share  price. I have not seen  evidence  of a response  from Ms A which  said 
such a plan was in conflict with an instruction to dispose of the shares  quickly.
Ms As email to Investec in October  suggests that she shared common  ground with Investec 
in terms of retaining the holding and hoping for a recovery in price. By late October and 
November Investecs outlook changed and that led to the share sales  which Ms A says 
caused her a financial loss.
Taking all of the above into consideration, I do not consider that there  is evidence   or 
enough evidence   to support Ms As assertion about disposal of the RBS shares quickly.  
Despite the discretionary  management arrangement, she was not uninformed about what 
was going on in her portfolio. Communications with her in 2008  show that state of the 
holding was known  to her and evidence  of her reaction(s) (or lack of) does not suggest  that 
she was surprised by it. I am not persuaded that Investec was instructed to dispose  of the 
shares quickly. On balance, I consider that the agreed plan was to do so over time at the 
DPMs discretion. 
This leads  to the allegation that the DPM (and Investec) applied the discretion in breach  of 
the portfolios  mandate  that is, reducing  the RBS holding (mindful  of CGT management) 
and balancing  the portfolio in the process.  
I consider that Investec  began with adherence to the mandate.  Based on the internal email  
evidence it appears  to have done this to the extent of excluding its fees from the outset of 
the DPM arrangement, until when reinvestment of the proceeds from the share sales was to 
take place. It also appears  to have done so on the basis of waiting for an appropriate price 
and selling over time.  That was arguably  reasonable.  There would have been a need  to 
liquidate enough  money to make  reinvestment viable in the context of Ms As growth 
objective. I do not accept that the mandate included  desperation to sell the holding at any 
price. That could have  been expressed quite easily within the client agreement   but it was 
not.
The sale over time at an appropriate  price approach continued up to April 2008, when 
Investec shared with Ms A what it considered to be possible cause for optimism.  Given the 
falls in value, and resulting capital loss, the CGT aspect of the mandate  appears to have 
become redundant during  this time. Ms A makes a valid point about her overexposure to the 
RBS shares  that is, over 80% of her portfolio  however  there is evidence  that Investec 
was mindful of this and used it as a reason to let the rights issue  lapse. 
I accept that by around April 2008  Investec appears  to have been entertaining the idea of 
retaining the holding as it was in order to benefit  from a possible price recovery. However, I 
do not consider  it had abandoned the idea of reducing the holding. Its comments  in this 
respect could arguably be consistent  with the plan to sell at an appropriate price  that is, 
retain the holding  to benefit from a possible price  recovery, and then sell at an appropriate  
price. Furthermore, and after April, there is evidence in Ms As October email that she 
agreed with the idea of retaining the holding at the time in the hope  of a price  recovery.
Ref: DRN11592575Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that Investec abandoned  or went  against the 
mandate to balance  the portfolio. Its ability to do so appears to have been  dependent on first 
reducing the RBS holding  over time and at an appropriate price  which  faced difficulties 
caused by the market   before reinvesting  in line with the portfolios  medium risk profile. 
Issues and concerns related to RBS earlier in 2008  were such  that, in the absence  of Ms As 
clear instructions to sell the shares  at or by a specific time, Investec could argue  as it has  
that it was reasonable for it to continue monitoring the situation for the possibility of a 
recovery. This continued until RBS problems escalated significantly towards  the end of 
2008. I do not suggest this was the only or best approach it could have taken and I accept 
that another  discretionary  manager could have taken a different approach.  However, it 
appears to have been an approach Investec  had the discretion to take as part of the 
portfolios mandate and with Ms As implicit, and sometimes explicit, agreement at the time. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Ms As complaint. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept  or reject my decision 
before 14 September 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1159257