K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  a home  emergency insurance policy which  was a 
benefit of a packaged bank account. 
In summary,  Mr and Mrs M have complained that the literature they were given by National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) about the home emergency cover was misleading. They  
have also complained about  how NatWest  handled their complaint. 
background
In July 2016 Mr and Mrs M experienced a leak in their house. They  contacted the home  
emergency insurer who, after a few days,  fixed the leak.
Unhappy with the service  received, Mr and Mrs M complained to the home  emergency  
insurer. But as they remained dissatisfied  with the handling of the complaint  by the insurer,  
they complained  about NatWest as well.
As they were dissatisfied with NatWests response,  Mr and Mrs M referred  their complaint to 
our service.  As Im only looking at the complaint about NatWest, this decision isnt going to 
address Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about  the home  emergency insurer.  
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and didnt  uphold it. Essentially they concluded that 
the literature about the home  emergency  benefit of the packaged account wasnt mis-
leading. They also thought we couldnt look at how NatWest  had dealt with the complaint  as 
complaint handling in itself, is not a regulated  activity. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators  views and asked for their complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I dont uphold  Mr 
and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Having read through the detailed correspondence  that Mr and Mrs M have sent over the 
years about  this matter,  including  their recent  email  to our adjudicator,  I note that many of 
the concerns they raise,  and questions  they have asked, relate  to how their home  
emergency claim was handled  and whether the home emergency insurer  (or its 
subcontractors) could  provide the level of service that was offered  by the policy. 
NatWest is responsible for how it sells its packaged  accounts to its customers  and for 
keeping its customers updated  on changes made  to its packaged  accounts.  However,  many  
of the packaged account benefits are actually provided by third parties  - including the home 
emergency benefit that Mr and Mrs M are unhappy  about. And where that is the case, it is 
the third party  product  providers who are responsible for delivering the service,  and handling 
claims, in line with the relevant product terms and conditions.  Because  of this, all Im looking 
at in this complaint is whether the information  NatWest gave to Mr and Mrs M about the 
home emergency cover on the packaged  account  was misleading.
Ref: DRN11154142Mr and Mrs M say that the literature  provided by NatWest, about the home  emergency  
cover, was misleading.  Specifically they refer to the wording that says: Rest assured 
knowing you have 24/7 cover for home emergency call-out and repair.  Mr and Mrs M go on 
to ask if NatWest can deliver  the service marketed in their online/marketing literature. But I 
dont think describing  the home emergency  cover  as providing 24/7 cover  for home  
emergency call out and repair is misleading, as ultimately that is what  the cover provides.  
Based on what Mr and Mrs M have said, its clear that they think the wording is misleading  
because of how their claim was handled. Therefore,  their question  about the literature  being  
misleading is essentially dissatisfaction  that their claim wasnt handled as they expected it to 
be, based on the cover being described as 24/7 for call-out  and repair. But, as Ive 
explained above, this isnt something Im looking at here because the service itself was, and 
is, a matter that the insurer  is responsible  for, not NatWest.  
Because of this, I dont think NatWest was being  unreasonable when responding to Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint, by explaining  that it had passed  their concerns back to the insurers 
subcontractor for review.   
Based on how their claim was handled,  Mr and Mrs M have  said that NatWest should not 
subcontract work without supervising their subcontractors and have questioned  the choice of 
subcontractors involved. However,  our service is not the financial services regulator. 
Therefore, I do not have  the power  to tell NatWest  to change  its packaged bank account 
benefit providers,  or to instruct  NatWest on how it should monitor or communicate with its 
third party benefit  providers. 
Mr and Mrs M have  also provided detailed information about  how NatWest dealt with the 
complaint. But, as the adjudicator explained, under the rules that apply to our service, we 
can only consider  complaints about  regulated activities, and complaint  handling  isnt one of 
them. So Im unable  to consider the aspects of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about NatWests 
complaint handling process.
In response to the adjudicators assessment, Mr and Mrs M have also said that the 
adjudicators opinion contradicted what the investigator on their other complaint told them. 
Ive considered this point,  but disagree that they are contradictory. The investigator said that 
this complaint would  be progressed  as one we can consider. And we have  considered this 
complaint  but, as explained  above,  we can only consider the aspects of Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint that NatWest  is responsible for.   
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M may be dissatisfied with this decision and may feel that many  
of the questions theyve raised have gone  unanswered. But, overall  I dont think  NatWest 
provided Mr and Mrs M with misleading information about the home emergency benefit on 
their packaged account. And I hope  I have  been  able to explain the reasons  why I dont think  
this complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN11154143my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1115414