K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold  him 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr H took out a credit card around  the beginning of December 1996.  He took out the PPI 
approximately three weeks later - after he had taken out the credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. 
Mr H disagreed with this view and asked that the complaint  be referred to an ombudsman to 
make a final decision. Mr H mainly said that he didnt know  he had taken out PPI and that he 
wouldnt knowingly have asked to have it as he didnt need the policy.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when 
deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays has supplied an unsigned and undated  copy of Mr Hs Barclaycard application. Its 
a rather poor quality copy but it looks like Mr H didnt apply for the PPI when he applied  for 
his credit card.
From what  we know about these types of sales, where the PPI was sold after the credit card, 
its likely  that it was sold over the phone. And this fits with what Barclays told us about the 
sale. It says that PPI wouldve been  discussed  with Mr H during a phone call on 
20 December 1996. 
Barclays cant provide  a copy of the call recording  from the time, or the scripts that their 
representative would have followed. So I cant say exactly what  wouldve been  discussed. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  I think its reasonable to think Barclays  wouldve asked Mr H 
during that conversation if he wanted PPI  given that it looks like Mr H hadnt taken it out 
when he applied for his Barclaycard. 
Barclays shouldve made it clear that the PPI was optional.  Although  I dont know how 
Barclays presented the PPI to Mr H during  the phone call, I think  he wouldve understood 
that it was up to him to say if he wanted  to have it. I say this because Mr H had completed 
his card application some three weeks or so earlier  without  taking out PPI. And when hed 
filled in the application form, which offered him yes and no tick boxes for PPI, hed left them  
both blank. 
So, I think it wouldve been  clear  to Mr H that he didnt need to say yes to having PPI in 
order to get the credit  card.  And I think it was probably added to his card when he chose to 
take it out during the phone call after Barclays explained the benefits  it offered. 
Ref: DRN18844982I can completely understand why Mr H doesnt remember this so many years  later.  But Mr H 
wouldve been able to see the PPI when it appeared on his Barclaycard statements. So, if he 
hadnt asked for it, or he didn't want it, I think its likely that Mr H wouldve questioned 
Barclays about the PPI. I've seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr H took this up with Barclays  
before he made this complaint.  
On balance, I think Mr H chose to have PPI, knowing  it was optional.  
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr H. So it had to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that the PPI was suitable for Mr Hs circumstances.  It also had to give clear  enough 
information to Mr H so he could decide  for himself whether or not he wanted  it.
Thinking about  everything, I think the policy was suitable for Mr Hs circumstances at the 
time. 
Mr H was eligible for the PPI.
He wasnt affected  by any of the main things that mightve made  it more  difficult for him to 
make a successful claim, for example, unusual employment circumstances or a pre-existing 
medical condition.
Mr H told us he wouldve received 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months' half pay. But 
the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per accident  and sickness  claim. So 
the PPI provided  better protection than he couldve relied on getting through his employer. 
And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing  Mr H with a useful benefit at a difficult 
time  especially bearing in mind that he mightve  had some  extra  costs  as a result  of being 
sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr H lost his job and 
became unexpectedly  unemployed.
Mr H mentioned having savings he couldve relied  on  but I dont know  if he wouldve 
always had savings he could depend  on to make  his monthly repayments. And the amount  
of savings hes mentioned isnt enough  to change my overall view that PPI was suitable  for 
him. 
Taking into account everything  Mr H has told us about his circumstances at the time,  I think 
PPI couldve provided him with a useful benefit  if hed needed  to claim.  
Its possible Barclays didnt give all the information it shouldve  done to Mr H. I dont know  if 
the PPI cost was made clear to Mr H when he bought the policy.  But from what  Ive seen,  
Mr H hasnt suggested that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mr H, I think it unlikely he wouldve been  
put off having  PPI if better information  had been provided. On balance  I think hed still have 
taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments,  including what hes said about  the way Barclays  
dealt with other claims hes made. But Ive looked  at the circumstances that apply in this 
particular case and what happened on other  cases doesnt change  my conclusion  here.
Ref: DRN18844983my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1884498