K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc have not credited his brothers  account  with £300 he sent 
online, from his account.   
background
Mr C said he sent the money to his brothers account on 27 July 2018. TSB has debited his 
account, but he said his brother didnt  receive the money. And he is unclear on TSBs 
explanation that his brother actually received the £300 on 9 July 2018,  before he recalls  
sending it. He questioned how this was possible.  
TSB explained that Mr C made the payment on 8 July 2018 and not 27 July. But it was 
having problems  with its computer system then. So the payment showed as leaving  Mr Cs 
account later, on 27 July. TSB said its online banking log showed that the payment was 
made on 8 July. It had no payment instructions on the internet banking log for Mr C on 27 
July. Therefore, it maintains that he cant have  made  the transfer  then. 
Our investigator didnt  agree with Mr C that the £300 was missing.  She was satisfied with 
TSBs explanation about what had happened  with the online transfer. But she acknowledged  
that the matter  had caused a lot of confusion for Mr C. So she recommended that TSB pay 
him £100 compensation for the trouble caused.  
Mr C didnt agree and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is a dispute about  whats 
happened, Ill reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened, in light of the evidence  that is available.  
I agree  with the outcome  our investigator has reached on this complaint  and for broadly the 
same reasons.  
TSB has shown us evidence that Mr C logged into his online banking facility  on 8 July 2018 
to make the payment. There was no such online entry for Mr C on 27 July. So while  I have 
regard for what Mr C has said about  sending the money to his brother on 27 July, I believe 
he is mistaken. The evidence doesnt  support his recollections. 
On balance, I am persuaded that Mr C did make  the online payment to his brother on 8 July. 
And the payment was credited to his brothers account the very next day. 
I do agree  with our investigator that TSBs  computer problems have caused confusion  and 
upset for Mr C. And I am satisfied that her recommendation  of £100 compensation for Mr C 
is a fair one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint about TSB Bank  plc. 
I instruct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr C £100  compensation.  
Ref: DRN10555062Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1055506