K821x#15Complaint
Ms S complains  HSBC  UK Bank Plc failed  to prevent her from making a large payment to a 
scam investment firm. She wants HSBC to refund the money  she lost.
HSBC says it is not liable for the loss because Ms S unwittingly authorised the payment   
and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to recover the money from the 
payees bank.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Upon reading  all the available evidence and arguments, I have concluded that the fair and 
reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances,  would be to uphold this complaint for the 
following reasons:
Ms S said she had been considering  investing for a year or so at that time of the 
payment. She believes she was contacted  by phone after she expressed an interest 
in the firm after finding its website. She believed she was dealing  with a genuine  
investment broker. The person she dealt with took her through  what  appeared to be 
credible financial information by email and phone and came across  as 
knowledgeable and professional.
Ive looked at copies of some of the information Ms S received from the firm, and I 
understand why she thought the firm was genuine. The firm even asked her for 
identity information  for know your customer purposes, which no doubt reassured     
Ms S.
Its possible the firm is genuine, but this appears  very unlikely given the warning 
about the firm by the Financial Conduct Authority; multiple subsequent  online 
references to customers being  unable to withdraw their funds; and repeated 
mentions of fake trading  platform  software.  It was Ms S inability to withdraw her 
funds from the platform, and the broker not responding to her requests which led to 
her concluding  she was scammed.
I accept this was an authorised payment.  Ms S consented to the payment over the 
phone after being unable  to make the payment online due to its size. So, although 
she did not intend the money to go to a scammer,  under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry  practice at the time, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
oHave been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to 
counter various  risks, including anti-money  laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing  fraud and scams.
oHave had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
Ref: DRN1737220.scams in recent years, which banks  are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
oIn some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined  to make a payment  altogether,  to help protect  
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
HSBC considers too high a standard has been  applied to what  is expected of it in 
terms of identifying payments that might indicate a consumer  is at risk of financial 
harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare  duty. I am mindful that the courts  have 
interpreted Quincecare narrowly  and the circumstances of this complaint  are different 
to that case. Our fair and reasonable remit also enables us to take account  of 
regulatory and industry standards beyond  the narrow legal duties considered  in that 
and other court  cases. 
In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case. However, the 
broad legal position that a bank  is expected  to process payments that a customer  
authorises is not absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules  and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and good industry practice  at the time) is an 
example of that.
I am also mindful that my fellow ombudsman and I have referenced the relevant 
rules, codes of practice and good  industry practice at the time in many  previous 
decisions, both to HSBC and published  on our website.
HSBC was aware the payment Ms S wanted  to make could indicate a potential scam. 
Legitimate investment  trading  platforms and brokers of course  exist in other 
countries, but the existence of the FCA warning cast credible doubt on this firm.
The HSBC employee asked Ms S some relevant questions, such  as:
oWhat was the payment for? Ms S said it was for a short-term investment.
oHad Ms S used the firm before?  Ms S said, yes, but for a much  smaller 
investment. 
He also performed an internet search  and discovered the FCA warning. The warning 
said: 
Almost all firms and individuals  offering, promoting  or selling financial services or 
products in the UK have  to be authorised by us. However, some  firms act without our 
authorisation and some  knowingly run investment scams. This firm is not authorised 
by us and is targeting people in the UK. Based upon information we hold, we believe 
it is carrying on regulated  activities which require authorisation.
At this point, HSBC ought to have been  very concerned Ms S was at credible risk of 
financial harm. And it needed to do much  more than ask if she was 100% confident  
Ref: DRN1737220.and happy to go ahead with the payment. There was an onus on it to have explored  
Ms S understanding of how risky the payment appeared to be in light of the warning.
Unlike HSBC, I have  seen nothing to indicate  Ms S understood the sophisticated 
means scammers use to dupe customers. So, after the discovering the FCA warning, 
I would  have expected the HSBC employee to have asked more questions  to get   
Ms S to reflect on what she was doing and the foundation behind why she thought 
the firm was real. They should have:
oExplored Ms S understanding of the FCAs warning and what it meant? Its not 
clear she realised  who the FCA was  the regulator  which  sets the rules  for 
investment firms  to follow and which monitors their behaviour   and the 
importance of it issuing a warning. 
oExplained the significance  of what not having  FCA permission meant  and that the 
regulator would not issue a warning  lightly, so Ms S should be very concerned.
oAsked Ms S why she wanted to invest using a firm the regulator  is concerned  by, 
especially when there are investment firms which do have appropriate  
authorisation from the FCA.
oAsked questions about  what Ms S was advised  to invest in. HSBC would then 
have understood  she was being advised  to invest in markets scam firms are 
known to target.
oExplained how convincing scammers can be. And that a common  confidence 
trick is for customers to have a positive experience  before being asked to make  a 
much more  significant investment. Ms S would then have likely understood the 
limited but positive experience she had up until that point was not a good basis to 
conclude the firm wasnt a scammer.
Im satisfied a discussion to this extent  was not unreasonable given the existence of 
the warning, the size of the payment Ms S wanted  to make,  her inexperience as an 
investor, and the limited  dealings she had with the firm.
HSBC says Ms S expressed confidence  about the firm. But Im not satisfied a 
customer expressing confidence is always enough to meet a firms responsibility to, 
where possible, protect customers  from financial harm.  
Investment scams rely on convincing customers they are genuine, so a customer will 
usually believe they are dealing with a genuine firm when  HSBC  first speak to them.  
They are also likely  to have some  basis for their belief, such as a positive previous 
interaction. So, I am not persuaded Ms S saying its not something  I have  not 
already thought about,  shows  she understood how investment  scams  work and that 
she wasnt at risk of falling victim to one.
Ms S needed to make the payment  quickly, which  is a potential indication  of being 
scammed. Scammers apply pressure  to obtain  funds quickly  while  a victim  is under  
their influence.  And listening to the various  calls Miss S made, the scammer called 
Ref: DRN1737220.while she was on the phone to HSBC on at least two occasions. I find this should 
have further alerted HSBC to Ms S being  at risk of financial harm.
HSBC says Ms S gave a very different explanation for the payment when she 
reported the fraud. It says she told them the payment  related  to purchases from a 
company based abroad. Ms S cant recall  saying this but explained  she may have 
experienced an issue regarding a product she tried to purchase from abroad  around 
that time.  So, there could have some confusion  if she also spoke about this when she 
rang HSBC to report the scam.
I doubt Ms S would have given a very different reason behind the payment, knowing 
full well she had talked  to HSBC previously about  the payment and her calls were 
likely recorded. So, without a copy of the call recording to determine  exactly  what 
was said, I find Ms S explanation credible.
On balance, I doubt Ms S would have gone ahead with the payment had she fully 
understood the importance of the warning, and how convincing scammers can be. 
Ms S expressed worry about  frauds and scams on the call and said even though she 
had used the firm before  anything  could happen.
I find Ms S would have  listened carefully  to her bank had the importance  of the FCA 
warning been  discussed and the extent of the risk she was taking been made clear. 
Instead, the advisor only really emphasised Ms S previous interactions with the firm 
as a reason for her confidence  as if they too thought that was sufficient. But 
considering the limited  interaction Ms S had with the firm prior to this point, I find 
HSBC should  not have  been reassured she wasnt at risk.
I have considered whether Ms S should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. But falling under the illusion  of a scammer is not by itself 
negligent, particularly  a scammer  versed in posing as a genuine investment broker. 
HSBC made  Ms S aware of the FCA warning, but I find she didnt understand the 
warnings significance or why it should cause her to seriously doubt  the firm. So, in 
this context I dont find she was negligent.
I am satisfied HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably  reimburse Ms S for the loss she 
suffered without any reduction  together with interest to compensate  her for being 
deprived of the money she lost.
HSBC ought to be aware our service has for some time applied  eight  percent simple  
interest on money awards where  appropriate. It reflects  the current statutory interest 
awarded by the courts  on judgement debts. But this isnt to say we dont sometimes 
make a different  or no award of interest to reflect the specific circumstances of a 
complaint. But I dont find any specific circumstances apply in Ms Ss complaint 
which would make the award of eight percent simple interest per annum unfair.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint 
about HSBC UK Bank Plc  and I require the bank to:
Ref: DRN1737220.Pay Ms S £50,966.14 and any fees incurred as a result of the payment within 
28 days of receiving  notification of her acceptance of my final decision; plus
Pay interest on that sum at 8% simple  interest  per annum from the date of loss to the 
date of refund.  If HSBC  is legally  required to deduct tax from the interest, it should 
send Ms S a tax deduction  certificate so she can claim  it back from HMRC if 
appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2021.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1737220