K820x#14complaint
Mr C says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for insurance  
intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that, at the time of the sale, was the policy insurer - Allianz  Insurance  Plc (Allianz) 
- has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent  at the time, so it accepted responsibility 
for the sale. To keep things simple,  Ill only refer to Allianz in this decision,  rather than any 
other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mr C bought the policy in 2000 at the same  time as taking out what  was called a personal 
reserve account. This type of account  had a credit limit, and Mr C was issued with cheques 
which he could use up to the value of his credit limit. There was a minimum repayment which 
had to be made each  month (3% of the balance) so this was revolving credit,  operating in a 
similar way to a credit card account.
Mr C said he applied for the account  and PPI policy over the internet, although Allianz said it 
could not confirm the sales  channel.  
Mr C thought the sale took place in 1997, and at that time he said he was employed as a 
mobile engineer.  He also said he was entitled to sick pay from his employer of at least three 
months full pay, as well as a payment of at least twelve months salary in the event of 
redundancy, and death-in-service  benefit.  He said he had no savings  he couldve relied on. 
Mr C further said he was in good  health  at the time. 
The information I have  suggests that Mr C was working for the same  employer in 2000, and 
Mr C did not tell us about  any change in his circumstances  or state  of health by 2000,  so I 
have taken his circumstances to be the same as stated above at the actual  point of sale.  
The policy provided  life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover, subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered a monthly benefit of 15% of Mr Cs account balance  in 
the event of him being unable to work  due to accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
At the time,  the policy cost 67p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  The premiums 
wouldve continued to have to be paid during a successful claim and they attracted interest. 
Mr Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  Mr 
Cs representative says:
Allianz failed to meet the sales standards  which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Cs representative 
believes there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN19358942The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Allianz should have 
told Mr C about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Allianz should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr C and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint and both parties  have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision. As I 
didnt have information about  whether Mr Cs circumstances had changed between 1997 
(which he thought was the date of sale)  and 2000  (the actual date of sale) I issued a 
provisional decision in June 2021. I said in my provisional decision that I agreed with our 
adjudicators conclusions, but I invited  Mr C to send in any further information about  his 
circumstances  or any other information he wanted  me to consider  and Allianz  similarly 
had the opportunity to make further  submissions. 
I asked for responses by 23 July 2021. Mr Cs representative replied on his behalf to say 
there was nothing further to add. Allianz also had no further comment. As I have had 
responses from both parties, I can now issue my final decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that 
approach out in much detail here, but Ive taken this into account  in deciding  Mr Cs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000, so before the sale of general insurance products  like this 
became regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching 
Ref: DRN19358943Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable  
to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not Allianz. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavours to ensure that all those  involved in selling  their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
So I am satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding  what  is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mr Cs case.  
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
Ref: DRN19358944circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Allianz was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Allianz gave advice, whether it advised Mr C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Allianz gave  Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and 
Allianz, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr C know  he had a choice?
Allianz had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Its not clear how Mr C took out the account  and PPI policy, and Allianz couldnt provide the 
credit agreement for his account because the sale was so long ago (and the account is 
closed). However, even  if the sale was over the internet as Mr C thought, I consider it likely 
that he wouldve  had to sign a credit agreement  after application was accepted. 
Allianz has sent in a sample copy of the agreement in use at the time,  and I think  its 
reasonable to take this as what wouldve been  used in Mr Cs case.  The PPI section of the 
form has a box that had to be ticked to say that the cover was required,  and in addition the 
applicant had to complete  the name and date of birth of the insured. Theres  nothing  on the 
form to suggest the PPI was compulsory. So taking everything into account, I think  its more 
likely than not that Mr C knew  the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without 
undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN19358945did Allianz provide  advice?
Allianz says it cant say whether it provided  advice  during this sale.  Mr C hasnt suggested  
the policy was recommended  for him. Our adjudicator  assessed  the case  as though Allianz 
had recommended the policy, but Ive no evidence to suggest that, when Allianz sold Mr C 
the PPI, it provided  advice   especially if this was an internet sale as Mr C remembers. 
This means  Allianz didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr C. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr C to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Allianz has referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says Mr C wouldve received, including  
the policy terms and conditions, which I accept - on a balance of probabilities  applied  to 
policies like Mr Cs. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr C at the time, I dont think Allianz  gave Mr C the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
Mr C said this sale took place over the internet.  Allianz couldnt provide screenshots  of the 
application process, but as I mentioned, it sent in a sample copy  of the credit agreement  in 
use at the time. I can see that described the PPI policy  as providing cover against  accident, 
sickness, unemployment or death. It also informed Mr C that the policy cost 67p per £100  of 
outstanding balance and stated the eligibility conditions.
The information provided on the agreement  would have  given  Mr C a broad sense of what 
the policy covered.  But it was Allianzs responsibility to draw to Mr Cs attention the important 
information  i.e. the key information  about  the nature  of the cover and any significant  
exclusions and limitations which  might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Allianz did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr C, including the need to maintain  premiums during a claim 
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Allianz adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think Allianz gave Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points about the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
Ref: DRN19358946sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr Cs. I have considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Cs representative considers to be poor 
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it is unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mr C has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards 
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to impose such requirements on Allianz. 
what effect did Allianzs shortcomings have on Mr C? To what extent did Mr C suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that Allianz did not do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Mr C. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr C 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr C 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Allianz  done things  properly. 
Mr C says he would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr C had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr C chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr C thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr C has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr C ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   this 
was set out on the credit agreement. But I accept that Allianz didnt  make  clear the on-going  
cost information.  So while Mr C didnt  know  some  things, the ultimate  position  in the event of 
a successful claim was not dissimilar to what he would reasonably  have thought from the 
information he based his decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN19358947The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury that 
Mr C knew about  or ought to have known about or had asked about or received 
advice, treatment or counselling for within the 12 months before the start date of the 
policy, or a subsequent related  condition;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have given Mr C pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the 
policy was not as good as he thought,  and he might have decided  not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr C didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr C would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr C needed  to be unable to do his normal  paid work.  I dont  
think this is likely to be too different to what he would have expected in order  to make a 
claim. After all, the credit agreement says the policy provides cover for accident, sickness or 
unemployment. So it seems unlikely he would have thought hed have been  able to make a 
successful claim  if he was still working,  whether that be in his normal job or any other job.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr C would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting, and I think the policy  couldve provided  a useful benefit at a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mr Cs representative says the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN19358948I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr C would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr C 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude that Allianz should pay Mr C compensation,  as that would put him in a better 
position than he would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr C thinks Allianz  misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Allianzs statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Allianz failed  
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Allianz gave Mr C, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Allianz negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr C and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Allianz  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr C in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN19358949my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2021.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1935894