K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say The Co-operative Bank  Plc (Co-op) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 1997  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in-branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for unemployment only  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. Co-ops records are not entirely  clear on this point, but it appears the policy  might 
have been set up in joint names  during the initial 12-month free period. Nevertheless Mr W 
asked for the policy to be amended to his sole name  when they started paying for it, so I 
dont think this issue is important to my decision.  In the initial  free period it offered to repay 
an amount equal  to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage payment a month  in the event of a successful 
claim. Co-ops records show Mr W requested  a quote from Co-op to increase  the monthly 
benefit to cater for other fixed household expenses  but its not clear whether this was 
affected. At the time,  Co-op says the policy cost around £16 a month. 
At the time,  Mr W was employed as a farm labourer. He has told us he was not entitled  to 
any enhanced  sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying the mortgage should  he 
be unable to work. Mr W has made  no mention of any redundancy pay entitlement.  Mr W 
has referred to some  medical  conditions he suffered after the sale  hes also briefly referred 
to having back  problems prior to the sale. But the policy only covered Mr W for 
unemployment and not accident  or sickness, so these  things are not important  to my 
decision. 
Mrs W wasnt working  this is why she wasnt on or didnt remain  named on the policy.
Co-op has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in December 
1997 and closed in 2006. 
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
Co-op failed to meet the sales standards  which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ws representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN12559662The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Co-op should have 
told Mr and Mrs W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Co-op should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs W and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN12559663There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Co-op  at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman (the business which sold the policy at the time was a Building  Society)   might 
have been expected to reach in relation  to an equivalent complaint. I note that under the 
Building Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
This sale took place  before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so Co-op  was 
required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance when  
considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN12559664-If Co-op gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Co-op gave  Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent  Mr and Mrs W 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and Co-op, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
Co-op had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
This was a sale by branch meeting. Because things happened a long time ago  its also 
been more than 10 years since the mortgage account closed - not all of the paperwork from 
the time is available  and there is no longer a complete record  of what happened.  
Nevertheless Co-op has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application. Mr and 
Mrs W say there was no discussion about  PPI during their branch meeting. But looking at 
the mortgage application, there is a section towards  the end titled  Mortgage Payment 
Protection which asked  Mr and Mrs W to indicate either Yes or No by ticking  the relevant 
box, whether they wanted PPI or not. And there is a tick in the No box. So it seems  likely it 
was discussed.
Im mindful Mr and Mrs W indicated  here that they didnt want PPI - yet they still ended up 
with it. But their mortgage application  is dated  August 1997, which  is around  four months 
before the mortgage actually started. As was typical of the mortgage process around this 
time, I think it wouldve  been during this intervening period and only after their mortgage  
application had been agreed that Mr and Mrs W wouldve chosen a mortgage  product e.g. a 
fixed or discounted rate. And looking  at their subsequent mortgage offer I can see Mr and 
Mrs W chose  a fixed rate.
Co-op says the PPI was free for the first 12 months, so it seems  likely (as was typical  of 
many lenders around the time in question) Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage product included  an 
offer to have PPI free of charge for an initial period  in this case the first year of cover. And 
there is nothing in my view which is unfair or unreasonable about  this, so long as Co-op  
made it clear  this was the case.
While Co-op hasnt got any other paperwork  to show this, Mr and Mrs Ws policy  only 
provided unemployment cover  it didnt include accident and sickness cover. Because of 
this I think its reasonable to assume there was some discussion about  the PPI offering and 
it suggests to me Mr and Mrs W made  a choice in the matter. 
Ref: DRN12559665In addition Co-op says it would  have  contacted  Mr and Mrs W towards the end of the free 
period asking them to complete a direct  debit mandate to allow the premiums to be taken 
from their bank account if they wanted  to continue  with the cover. Because  the cover did 
continue, it seems more  likely than not Mr and Mrs W did complete the necessary mandate.
Finally I can also see that prior to the end of the free period Mr W wrote to Co-op asking that 
the cover  be in his sole name only as Mrs W wasnt working. And around the same time Mr 
W enquired about increasing  the benefit  level to include  not only the mortgage payment but 
also household  expenses.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  that 
something different  happened, I think its more  likely  that Mr and Mrs W knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Co-op provide  advice?
Both Co-op  and Mr and Mrs W agree that advice wasnt provided  during  this sale.  
This means  Co-op didnt have to check  if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs W. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs W were given a broad description  of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr W 
was unable to work  through unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. Ive reached this 
conclusion because the mortgage application  provided this broad description,  and I think  its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have taken out the policy  without any sense of what the policy 
was for and of how much  the premium  might be after the initial  free period.
But the available evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Co-op gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs W agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think Co-op gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ws. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN12559666-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Co-op ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Co-ops  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Co-op didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs 
W. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs W would  have still taken out the policy, had Co-op done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs W say they would  not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs W had to weigh up in their own minds  the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr W being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs W chose  to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs W thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs W have  suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W knew  they would  have to pay 
something for the policy after the free period, it doesnt appear Co-op told them the exact  
premium at the point  they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs 
W would have been told the cost before the policy started  as I said above Co-op says they 
wouldve contacted  Mr and Mrs W prior to the end of the free period - and they paid for the 
policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  
at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with Co-op  at the time or 
reconsidered their decision. 
Ref: DRN12559667Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs W would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Co-op made clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs W would get back  
in return in the event Mr W made  a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ws 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  Mr 
Ws letter  to Co-op asking  for Mrs W to be removed from the policy suggests he understood 
the benefit amount because he reflected it within the letter.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs W pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr W was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved beneficial  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr W 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr W was in permanent  
employment and because they didnt  choose  accident and sickness cover, the exclusions 
and limitations for this element  of the cover  didnt apply. So, I still think they had some good  
reasons to take the policy out.
Co-op may not have told Mr and Mrs W that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for, 
but they didnt have  any other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs W would still have thought a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr W be made  unemployed. The policy  
allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce  their outgoings  at a difficult and 
uncertain time, ensuring their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr W was made redundant.  In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W would have taken out the policy  in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN12559668Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ws circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr 
and Mrs W found himself  in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Co-op  should  pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs W think Co-op misrepresented the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. 
While I accept there is a possibility a court might  conclude  some of Co-ops statements 
misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why Co-op failed to act fairly  and 
reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided   
but because the overall  information Co-op  gave Mr and Mrs W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1997 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ref: DRN12559669Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find Co-op negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs W and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Co-op had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1255966