K822xcomplaint
Mrs P has made a complaint that Barclays Bank  UK Plc has mis-sold her a series of 
personal loans.
background 
Our service has been asked to consider a number of complaints relating to the late Mr P and 
his wife, Mrs P. This complaint is about personal  loans that Mrs P took out. However, Ive 
taken into account  all of the relevant information  Ive been provided with in relation to each of 
the complaints  before  making  my decision.  Mrs P is represented by the executors of the late 
Mr P but Ill refer to any representations as being  made by her directly. 
The full background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision.  Ive attached a 
copy and it forms part of my final decision. In summary,  I explained that I couldnt consider 
all of the loans  that Mrs P had taken out because some of them were outside the time limits 
for bringing  a complaint to our service. 
However, in relation to the final loan Mrs P took out I explained I wasnt satisfied that 
Barclays did do enough to make sure that the loan was affordable for Mrs P or that the 
lending was responsible. So I recommended Barclays refunded interest  and charges on the 
loan since inception plus 8% simple interest.  
I also awarded a total of £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of 
correspondence chasing the debt being  sent directly to Mrs P rather than her 
representatives. 
Barclays got in touch to clarify that once  the interest and charges were refunded there wasnt  
a credit balance on the account. So they queried whether the 8% interest would still apply. 
Our adjudicator clarified that in those circumstances, in line with our normal approach,  we 
wouldnt expect interest to be applied. 
Barclays agreed to refund  the interest  and charges and apply it to the outstanding  balance. 
This reduced  the outstanding amount from around  £21 000 to £15 000. Barclays said it was 
willing to agree a payment plan with Mrs P. 
Mrs P didnt agree with my provisional decision  for a number of reasons. In summary  she 
said: 
Mrs Ps religious  beliefs are a protected  characteristic under the Equality  Act. Mrs P 
was treated as an extension of the late Mr P when Barclays  aggressively lent money 
to fund Mr Ps spread  betting
Barclays failed to treat Mrs P as an individual and neglected their responsibility  of 
their duty of care to her, particularly  because of the protected  characteristics  outlined  
above
Mrs P had no concept of what Mr P was involved in and the spending  wasnt in her 
interests as the borrower  she received no direct benefit as a borrower and there 
was no reason for her to borrow the money
Ref: DRN13379812The word benefit means to receive an advantage or profit   this cant  simply mean  
receiving funds  
Our service should look at the complaints holistically rather than splitting  them into 
three separate complaints
I have watered down  the complaint points  the response from Mrs P should be 
included in full
I am disregarding legal precedents and case law 
The executors  would like a face to face meeting with me to present Mrs Ps case  
Our service hasnt provided  access to all of the information provided by Barclays   
there has been no openness or transparency 
I should consider  the loans made prior to 2011  
The principal sums  should be refunded
Barclays continue to harass Mrs P for money  despite saying that account is on hold
Mrs P would like a sincere apology from Barclays. 
Mrs P also made a counter offer to Barclays. She asked Barclays  to refund all the 
outstanding amounts on the loan, make  the award Id recommended  in my provisional  
decision but not offset it against the outstanding  balance and pay half all of the principal 
amounts owed following the death of Mr P. 
Barclays didnt agree to the counter offer and explained that Mrs P was receiving letters  
because of the way their system worked. They confirmed  the account  had been  returned to 
internal collections  and that further  action was on hold. 
So I now need to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision and in a letter to Mrs P I dont think its necessary 
to meet  with Mrs P or the executors. Our service is informal and I think theres enough 
evidence for me to be able to make  a decision without  a hearing.  
Im sorry  to hear that Mrs P feels Ive watered down her comments  and responses.  Whilst I 
havent specifically  referred to each and every point  in her detailed comments and 
responses I have taken all of the information  into account. I appreciate she wants me to 
detail her verbatim response but Ive summarised the key points shes  raised which I think 
are relevant  to my decision. Furthermore,  whilst Ill take into account all of the available  
evidence and arguments; Im only going to refer those I think are relevant to the outcome of 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN13379813The complaints do need to be dealt  with separately because they involve different legal 
entities. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, I have taken into account the wider 
circumstances of the late Mr P and Mrs P. I referred  to this in my provisional decision and it 
formed part of my findings. 
I remain satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Barclays to put things right by refunding  
interest and charges on the final loan as I set out in my provisional decision. I say that 
because: 
I explained why I didnt think I could consider the lending  which  took place before 
2011. Whilst I appreciate Mrs P would like me to take this into account I remain 
persuaded that its outside the relevant  time limits to bring a complaint for the same  
reasons I set out in my provisional  decision;
As I explained in my provisional decision I took into account the factors  that may 
have influenced  Mrs Ps decision to take out the loan. That included all of the 
circumstances of the meeting, for example  who was present and what  language was 
used. And I have considered the points  which Mrs P has raised  in relation to 
protected characteristics.  Mrs P has been provided with the available  evidence from 
that meeting.  The evidence  Ive seen persuades me that its most likely there was a 
discussion with Mrs P about her overall  circumstances.  And she signed the loan 
agreement to confirm  she wanted to take it out. So, on balance, Im persuaded that 
Mrs P understood she was entering into a financial agreement and that she was 
happy to do so;  
Mrs P took out the loans in her own personal  capacity. I think the level of detail 
recorded in the notes  indicates that Mrs P was engaged with the application process.  
For example, she was able to tell Barclays a lot of information about  her personal 
and financial circumstances. The notes also say that there was a detailed  discussion 
about the options for re-financing and that Mrs P wanted  to use some  of the money 
to pay off her husbands loan. This is recorded  in the section of the notes under the 
heading fact find detail. So I remain satisfied that Mrs P was a willing  participant  in 
the application process and that Barclays took reasonable steps to ensure she was 
willing to take out the loan; 
The loan was taken  out in Mrs Ps name  and therefore she was responsible for the 
financial commitment she was entering  into. The money  has been spent and I think  it 
is fair Barclays gets it back. I appreciate  that some of the money went towards paying 
off other lending, including money  borrowed by Mr P in his own name. But, I think 
Mrs P was aware  of this and was willing to take out the loan as part of a wider 
restructure of her and her husbands  finances.  So Im not persuaded by the 
representations that Mrs P didnt benefit from the loans;
Mrs P has received some  further  letters from Barclays.  Unfortunately  these were 
automatically generated when activity took place on the complaint file. However, 
Barclays has confirmed the debt is with their internal  collections team and that they 
are willing  to work with Mrs P to come up with an affordable  repayment  plan.  So, 
whilst I appreciate the letters have caused some upset, I still think the total 
compensation of £350 is fair taking  into account  the overall circumstances of this 
case; 
Ref: DRN13379814In June 2017 Barclays wrote to the executors and offered £150  compensation for the 
issues with the collection letters  being  sent to Mrs P. That letter  included  an apology.  
So Im not directing  Barclays  to issue a further  apology. What amounts  to a sincere 
apology is often  subjective and I think its in everyones interests  to draw a line under 
these events and allow  all parties to move  forward. 
putting things right
Barclays needs to put things right by:
Refunding all the interest and charges applied to Mrs Ps account since  the inception  
of the loan. Im not directing Barclays to pay 8% simple interest  because  there  isnt a 
credit balance  on the account  after the refund; 
Paying Mrs P a total of £350  compensation.
Barclays has also said its willing to offer Mrs P an affordable  repayment  plan. It will be up to 
Mrs P and her representatives to contact Barclays to discuss  this further. 
my final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc and direct  them  to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mrs P to accept or reject  my decision before 20 July 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13379815COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs P has made a complaint that Barclays Bank Plc has mis-sold  her a series of personal loans. 
background
Our service has been  asked  to consider a number of complaints relating to the late Mr P and his wife, 
Mrs P. This complaint is about personal  loans that Mrs P took out. However, Ive taken  into account 
all of the relevant  information Ive been provided  with in relation  to each of the complaints before 
making my decision. Mrs P is represented by the executors of the late 
Mr P but Ill refer to any representations  as being made by her directly. 
Mrs P took out three personal  loans after 2011. The first loan was for £13 000 and was taken  out in 
March 2013. She borrowed a further £11 500 in November 2013 and £30 400 in October  2014.  Two 
of the loans  have been repaid but there is an outstanding balance on the loan for £30 400. 
When the late Mr P died his executors became aware  that he had taken out a series of personal  loans 
and that hed spent a lot of money on spread betting. Mr P owed Barclays around £25 000 when  he 
died. 
Mrs P says that Barclays didnt lend money to her responsibly because they allowed  Mr P to transfer 
his liabilities to her. Mrs P says that she didnt know shed be liable for the loans when Mr P passed 
away. Mrs P wants  an apology for how Barclays have treated her since Mr P passed away and the 
loans that she took on from Mr P to be refunded together with interest and charges that were applied. 
Barclays issued a final response  letter confirming that Mrs P had been able to converse with staff in 
her own language and that Mrs P had been aware what she was signing  up for. They also said that 
the loans were  affordable  for her and that they had an obligation to let her know that the account  was 
in arrears. However, they did offer Mrs P £150 compensation  for the delay in responding to her 
concerns. 
Our adjudicator looked  into what  happened  and didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  She 
thought that the loans were affordable for Mrs P and noted  that there was a detailed  discussion with 
Mrs P before  the largest loan was taken out in October 2014. She said that she hadnt  seen 
information to suggest that Mrs P was pressured into taking out the loans or didnt understand what 
she was signing up to. 
Mrs P didnt agree.  She responded to say, in summary,  that Barclays:
Used unreliable information about Mr and Mrs Ps income and didnt  verify the figures 
Didnt take into account expenditure on the rental properties 
Failed to take into account Mr Ps spread betting
Didnt take into account the risk of transferring liabilities from Mr P to Mrs P. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As Ive outlined in my other decisions the executors have asked  to speak to me about  the complaints 
theyve raised. But I dont  think thats necessary  in the circumstances of this case. Ive received very 
detailed submissions  in relation to all three complaints  and Im satisfied theres enough information for 
Ref: DRN13379816me to make  a decision  based  on the available  evidence. Im also aware  that the executors feel that 
theyve not had access  to all of the information that our service has considered.  The adjudicator has 
shared with the executors the information shes relied on when reaching her decision. 
loans taken out before  2011 
The executors referred to lending  that took place  before 2011.  Our rules  say that we cant look at a 
complaint if it was made more than six years after the event complained of; or if later, three years 
from when the customer was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware of cause  for complaint. 
The rules do allow me to look at complaints made out of time if the failure to comply  with the time limit 
was as a result of exceptional circumstances
In this case, the events complained about are the loans  which were  issued more than six years  ago. 
And I think Mrs P would have reasonably  been aware at that point she had cause to complain if she 
was unhappy with the lending.  Ive not seen evidence  of exceptional circumstances so Im not 
intending to consider the lending made before 2011.  
loans after 2011
There werent set checks that Barclays had to complete before deciding whether  to lend money  to 
Mrs P. They did have  a responsibility  to carry out proportionate  checks taking into account  a range  of 
factors including the amount  of money that they were lending, the lending history and what  they 
already knew  about Mrs Ps circumstances. The relevant industry rules  and guidance  point to a 
number of factors which might indicate that a customer is experiencing financial difficulties for 
example, not being able to meet repayments or entering into a debt management plan.
Im not satisfied that Barclays  did do enough to make sure that the loan was affordable for Mrs P or 
that the lending was responsible. I say that because:
Mr and Mrs P had taken out a total of six loans  between them  since 2011. All of the loans 
were over £10 000 and from March 2013 they each had loans  running alongside each other.  
This loan did consolidate  previous  lending as it paid off one of Mr Ps loans  and one of Mrs 
Ps loans.  But this was a significant increase  in their overall debt and the total amount of 
borrowing was a large proportion compared to their annual income. Mr and Mrs P were retired 
and in receipt of benefits and pensions. But I think that their decision to enter into significant 
borrowing, taking  into account their circumstances  and lending history, ought to have been 
subject to more scrutiny;
In 2011 Mr and Mrs P had around £40 000 in savings. That information  is recorded  on 
Barclays file and I can see that Mr P received  two lump  sums from what  appear to be 
endowment policies around  that time. But these savings appear to have dissipated within a 
relatively short period of time and they had begun to borrow money  more  frequently. I think 
that this ought to have been of concern given  that Mr Ps account showed that he was 
participating in high levels  of spread  betting;  
Even a brief look through Mr and Mrs Ps current account history would have demonstrated 
that there was a significant  amount of money flowing through  their account  which related to 
this activity. Over the previous few years  there was several hundred thousand pounds both 
credited and debited to the accounts.  Spread  betting is a legal activity but I think the level of 
activity here ought to have been of concern  because  Mr and Mrs P declared  an income of 
around £50 000 a year, and had minimal outgoings. So I think this ought to have highlighted 
that there were  potentially other reasons why they were needed  to rely on credit so frequently, 
especially when  their savings had also been spent over a relatively  short period of time; 
Ref: DRN13379817Barclays appear to have  completed a basic  income  and expenditure check.  Ive read the 
customer notes which say that the restructure was going to save Mr and Mrs P £900 per 
month, although the final response letter says that it was £90 per month. But I dont think  that 
the checks were  proportionate  when  I take into account all the factors that Ive outlined  above.  
Mr and Mrs P were  considered to be affluent  customers but I think  that there were a number  
of indications that their finances werent  straightforward and that there was a real possibility 
that the lending was being  used  to predominantly fund Mr Ps spread betting  activity.  
Ultimately, it was Mr Ps choice to spend his money in this way. But I think that when this is 
taken into account, alongside all of the other circumstances here, this shouldve raised 
reasonable concerns with Barclays about whether  or not further  lending was the right thing to 
do here;
The usual approach of our service is that a lender  doesnt  need to write off the debt as the 
borrower has had the benefit  of the funds. Ive considered  whether this is a situation where  its 
appropriate to depart from our usual  approach. Ive not seen enough  evidence  to persuade 
me that that Mrs P was unaware of the consequences of signing  up for the loans. Ive 
carefully considered the detailed  points that the executors  have made, including the cultural  
factors that theyve referenced. But the information Ive seen indicates  that Mrs P was 
involved in a relatively detailed conversation,  which took place in her language, with the 
branch staff about her circumstances at that time. She also signed the agreement  and the 
funds were transferred  to her. The evidence Ive been suggests  that she was happy to take 
on the liability  of her husbands loan. Taking all of these factors  into account I dont think  its 
fair to write off the debt but I think  that Mrs P should  be refunded all of the interest and 
charges applied  since  the inception  of the loan; 
I appreciate  that the executors are upset that Mrs P has been sent correspondence  asking 
her to repay the debt when theyve asked for it to be sent to them  (as they have power of 
attorney for Mrs P). Barclays have continued to send  letters to Mrs P, such as default notices 
and confirmation that the account  has been passed to a debt collection agency. I 
acknowledge that they are entitled  to do so but I dont think that was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case. This was a sensitive  time,  especially as it seems Mrs P was 
unlikely to have been aware of the full extent of her husbands spread betting and his overall 
level of debt. Barclays  were aware that the executors had power of attorney for Mrs P and 
were sorting out the affairs of the late Mr P on her behalf. So I think it would have been 
reasonable to send  the correspondence to the executors in the circumstances of this case. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused  by the correspondence being  sent directly to Mrs 
P Im awarding a further £200 compensation in addition to the £150 offered in the final 
response letter.  
putting things  right
Barclays needs to put things right by:
Refunding all the interest and charges  applied to Mrs Ps account since the inception of the 
loan; 
Adding 8% simple interest from the point that the loan was taken out to the date of settlement.
Paying Mrs P a total of £350 compensation. 
Ref: DRN13379818my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold Mrs Ps complaint about Barclays Bank  Plc. Mrs P and Barclays should let me 
know by 18 October 2018 if they have any other information theyd like me to consider that might 
make a difference to the outcome of this complaint
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1337981