K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  the advice given to them by AWD Home Finance Limited, a 
mortgage broker and an appointed representative of Legal  & General Partnership Services  
Limited. They say they were mis-sold  a mortgage  and a will package.  A claims management 
company (CMC) brings this complaint on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf.
background 
L&G recommended  a mortgage to Mr and Mrs H in 2008. The CMC says the advice given to 
Mr and Mrs H to re-mortgage and consolidated  debts was unsuitable. It says Mr and Mrs H 
incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) of about  £2,300. This and other costs were  
added to the mortgage loan. And the re-mortgage  didnt reduce the interest only part of the 
mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the suitability of the 
mortgage advice  should be upheld, saying:
Mr and Mrs H main reason for re-mortgaging was to consolidate debts and avoid interest 
rate changes.  They werent making minimum payments for one of their credit card 
accounts and were incurring overdraft charges. The re-mortgage and debt consolidation 
allowed them to reduce their monthly outgoings. 
Mr and Mrs H were aware of the ERC payable to their previous lender. Mr and Mrs H 
wanted to proceed as they were worried about interest rate changes. Their previous 
mortgage had a variable rate.
Mr and Mrs H agreed  that fees associated  with the mortgage  would be added to the 
mortgage loan.  There was nothing to suggest they could have paid the fees from 
savings.
Part of Mr and Mrs Hs previous mortgage was on an interest  only basis, as was part of 
the recommended mortgage. There were endowment policies in place. The increased 
borrowing was on a repayment basis. 
Our adjudicator said the recommendation to buy a will package was reasonable. But adding  
the cost to the mortgage was poor advice. He said L&Gs offer to refund the interest  on the 
cost of the will and £150 for trouble and upset was fair and reasonable.
The CMC responded  on behalf of Mr and Mrs H to ask that the complaint be passed  to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN13918522the mortgage advice
L&G recommended  the mortgage. So it needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure the 
mortgage was suitable  including  gathering  information about Mr and Mrs Hs needs and 
circumstances. L&G provided  copies of the mortgage paperwork, including the client review 
and a mortgage record of suitability. 
These documents say Mr and Mrs Hs main aim was to avoid the uncertainty  of interest rate 
changes. They wanted a three year fixed rate as they wanted to review arrangements in 
2011 when the endowment policies were due to mature. The documents  say Mr and Mrs H 
were comfortable with part of their mortgage  being on an interest  only basis and the 
endowment policies they had in place. 
Mr and Mrs H wanted to consolidate credit card debts of about  £8,500.  The documents say 
Mr and Mrs H understood  that consolidating short term debt into the mortgage  would be 
more costly overall, but they wanted to reduce their outgoings. The documents provided by 
L&G say Mr and Mrs H werent making  minimum payments for one of the credit cards. Its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs H were in a position  to repay their unsecured  debts from income or 
savings.
Mr and Mrs H made  monthly payments for their previous mortgage and credit  cards of about  
£1,400. After taking  out the new mortgage their monthly repayments were  £1,318.  
An ERC was payable to Mr and Mrs Hs previous lender. Based on the evidence, I think  they 
were aware of this and decided to proceed. The ERC applied until early 2011. The mortgage 
paperwork says Mr and Mrs H wanted to clear their credit card debts and secure a lower  
fixed interest rate to maximise  savings  immediately. 
Mr and Mrs H incurred other costs in re-mortgaging, such  as lenders and brokers fees and 
conveyancing costs, of about £4,000.  I dont think it was unreasonable  or unusual  for these 
fees to be deducted from the mortgage  proceeds. Mr and Mrs H agreed to this. It seems 
unlikely they had other means of paying  the fees.
There were costs involved with the re-mortgage  and debt consolidation.  But, overall, I dont 
think the recommendation was unsuitable.  It met Mr and Mrs Hs aims  to fix their interest 
rate and consolidate debts. I dont think Mr and Mrs H would have  wanted  to wait until the 
ERC was no longer  payable to their previous lender. They were concerned about interest 
rate rises during  that time. The recommended mortgage had a fixed interest rate which was 
lower than Mr and Mrs Hs previous variable rate. Their monthly outgoings reduced as a 
result of the re-mortgage  and debt consolidation and they had the certainty  of knowing that 
their payments wouldnt increase for three  years.
the wills package
I dont think the brokers  recommendation  that Mr and Mrs H buy a will package  was 
unsuitable. There was equity in their home and getting a will meant they could decide who 
would inherit that asset. So I think the recommendation was reasonable.
L&G referred Mr and Mrs H to a third-party will company. Its letter  to Mr and Mrs H said the 
will company  would contact them directly to discuss their will requirements. 
Ref: DRN13918523If there are any concerns about the will Mr and Mrs H should contact the will company. The 
third-party will company isnt covered by this service, and its not for me to say what  was a 
reasonable amount for it to charge.  
I think that adding  the cost of the will package to the mortgage was poor advice. It meant 
that Mr and Mrs H had to pay interest  on that cost over the whole mortgage term. L&G has 
accepted this was wrong,  and it has offered to refund the interest  on the cost of the will over 
the term of the mortgage, plus £150 for Mr and Mrs Hs inconvenience.  I think thats a fair 
way to put things  right.  It makes  good  Mr and Mrs Hs loss, and compensates them for the 
inconvenience in having to make  slightly higher  mortgage payments than they would 
otherwise have made.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find the compensation offered by Legal 
& General Partnership Services Limited  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 September 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1391852