K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1997 during  
a meeting to protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax  
mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and gain their consent  
before adding the policy to their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs M have told us that they were told the 
PPI was a condition of the mortgage and they needed to have the policy to obtain the 
borrowing. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr and Mrs M applied  for their 
mortgage and PPI but Halifax has sent me a copy of the available paperwork. 
Mr and Mrs M signed an application form separately to their mortgage  application to apply 
for the PPI, I think this shows the PPI was separate to their mortgage.  With this in mind  I 
think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have  to take out the PPI and they chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why they may not remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them. Mr and Mrs M have told us they didnt need the policy  because  they would  have 
received generous sick pay from their employers, had substantial  savings, and other 
insurances. But the PPI would  have  paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Ms sick pay and for 
longer than they would  have received full pay. The PPI would also have allowed them to 
keep their savings in place to be put towards  any other essential outgoings they may have 
had. In addition  the PPI would have covered circumstances their other insurances wouldnt 
have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time they werent  affected  
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for 
the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:  
Ref: DRN12073692Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said, but these  points dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1207369