K820x#14complaint
H, a legal company  representing Mr G, complains on behalf of Mr G, that PSA Finance UK 
Limited (PSA) misrepresented a Conditional  Sale Agreement. Mr G would like the 
agreement rescinded.  A refund of payments  made to date (£10,085.54) with 8% annual  
interest for one year and ten months.  And the remainder of the agreement cancelled  with no 
detriment to his credit  file.
background
H say when Mr G took out a Conditional Sale Agreement (CSA) to buy a car with PSA he 
understood, and had documents to show, that he would be paying £15,484.19  in total with 
monthly repayments of £230.57. 
But H says the actual price was £15,503.29  with monthly repayments of £230.97. It feels  this 
shows that PSA misrepresented  the finance  agreement to Mr G.
PSA says that Mr G has made the correct payments according to the contract he signed .So 
it saw no reason to rescind the agreement. Or to refund any payments made.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found there was a difference  between the 
documents Mr G submitted and those he eventually signed. However the financial difference 
was minimal. He didnt  feel he could  say that Mr G had been  mis-led. Or that the finance 
agreement had been misrepresented.
Mr G didnt accept this view. H said it would come back  with comments  on the view. But 
hasnt done so within the extension of time it agreed with our investigator. So the complaint 
has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that there is a difference in figures between the pre contract information 
Mr G has given us. And the final agreement  he signed.
The pre contract paperwork states  a total cash price for the car Mr G wanted to purchase as 
£15,484.19 with monthly  repayments of £230.57. This documentation  is dated 22 March  
2017 but is unsigned.
The signed  and dated agreement on 31 March 2017 show a total cash  price  of £15,503.29 
with monthly repayments of £230.97.
I cant explain the difference  in these figures.  PSA hasnt explained the difference. The only 
information from each  party  I have had to consider is the contract  documentation  plus screen 
shots from PSAs system which match the figures on the signed  CSA.  
However Mr G signed the contract dated  31 March  2017. So he would have had an 
opportunity then to check and to question any difference in figures. But I havent seen any 
evidence that the did so. I agree  with our investigators view that a signed and dated contract 
has more weight than unsigned pre contract  information.
Ref: DRN15675532I have also considered the figures  involved which are, in my view, minimal. The overall 
difference in the price difference is £19.10 and the difference in the monthly payments is 
£0.40. So I am not persuaded  that if Mr G had realised the slight  difference  in the figures  
when he signed  the contract that he would have chosen not to proceed. 
I dont feel I can fairly  conclude that PSA mis-led or mis-represented the agreement  to Mr G. 
So on that basis I cant reasonably ask PSA to rescind the agreement  and refund  payments 
made with interest  as Mr G has requested.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1567553