K820x#14complaint
Miss C has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (the bank) acted irresponsibly 
towards her when granting her a loan and an overdraft. 
background
Miss C says she was unemployed when she applied for the loan and the overdraft and didnt 
have enough free income to support the facilities. She also says the bank should have 
recognised she was a vulnerable individual because of certain  health  issues. 
It appears there were  two loans, the second  of which  was used to repay the first. I dont think  
this makes any material difference. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Cs complaint. Her conclusions  were:
Miss C hadnt made the bank aware  of her health  issues.
Miss C applied  for the facilities online and the applications stated  she was in 
employment and was paid monthly.
From the conduct of her account, there  had been no evidence  the loan or the overdraft 
would be unaffordable.
Miss C maintained  her accounts well for seven months following the grant of the 
facilities, making  it hard to say the lending had been irresponsible.  
Miss C had pointed out that her credit  file showed  problems with paying other loans.  But 
these had mostly been settled before Miss C applied to the bank  for the loan and the 
overdraft. So the adjudicator didnt  think the bank had acted unreasonably when 
approving Miss Cs applications.  
Miss C didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Miss C but I too 
have come to the same  conclusions as the adjudicator.
Miss C didnt say why she disagreed with the adjudicators findings,  so Ive reviewed the 
evidence on which she based them.  Apart  from Miss Cs statement that she told someone at 
Nationwide about  her health  condition,  theres  no evidence this was brought to the building 
societys attention.  I dont think I can reasonably conclude Nationwide should  have taken 
account of the health issue when Miss C applied for the facilities  online.
The evidence indicates the loan facilities were  affordable for some seven months,  and then 
something happened to stop payments towards  them being made. Miss C explained this to 
the adjudicator  (a helpline gave Miss C advice to act in a particular way), but this doesnt 
change the fact that for a reasonably long period the facilities appeared to be affordable. 
In view of the evidence available, I dont think I can fairly conclude the bank acted  
irresponsibly when granting the loan and the overdraft to Miss C. 
Ref: DRN17092582my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1709258