K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Experian took too long to remove incorrect  searches from his credit file. 
He says that this impacted on his ability to get credit and resulted in him losing interest on 
some investments.
background
When Mr O applied for a mortgage  the mortgage  company  performed  four hard searches 
when only one was necessary. Mr O says this meant his credit  score  reduced.
Hed intended to take out a couple of 0% interest credit  cards  to fund some of the expenses  
related to his house move  but found  he couldnt and therefore had to resort to trading in his 
premium bonds. He says that these bonds wouldve  been invested if he hadnt  been forced 
to use them  and that hes therefore not been able to earn interest  on them.
Experian offered  Mr O £200 to compensate him for their mistake. They accepted that the 
searches had been incorrectly held on file for too long due to a technical issue.
But Mr O was not satisfied and he referred  his complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
agreed that it had taken  Experian too long to remove the searches but he didnt  think  Mr O 
had provided sufficient evidence hed been  applying for 0% credit and he couldnt  find a 
record of institutions  that were offering  such a deal at the time. He explained that even if 
Mr Os application for 0% credit had been  clear;  his acceptance for the credit cards wouldnt  
have been as providers approval  processes  vary.  So he didnt think Mr O had evidenced a 
loss of interest. Overall,  he thought Experians offer of £200 was reasonable compensation 
for the inconvenience  that had been experienced and he didnt think  they needed  to take any 
further action.
But Mr O disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr O but Ive not been persuaded that Experian  need to take any 
further action.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Theres no dispute here that Experian held the spurious searches on file for too long.  The 
issue that appears to be important to decide is what the impact of this delay has been on 
Mr O. 
Ref: DRN13665112Im not persuaded that there has been  a financial loss as a result  of the issue. Ive noted that 
since the investigator provided  his view, Mr O has provided links that he says demonstrates  
0% interest credit cards  were available. But Ive not been provided  with evidence that a firm 
application was made and rejected so I cant say that Mr O missed  out on alternative free 
credit to pay the costs  related to his house  purchase. Mr O has explained that he didnt 
want to make a firm application because it would impact his credit file further.  So he said 
hed completed  soft searches to establish an application  would be fruitless.  But its clear no 
actual application  was made.
Its evidently been a distressing issue for Mr O he appears to be financially astute and aware  
of the importance of keeping his credit file as clean as possible. But I think Experians offer 
of £200 compensation was sufficient to recompense him for the distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced in this instance. I dont think its necessary for them to take any further 
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1366511