K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains through her representative Mrs K, that Assurant  General  Insurance 
Limited unfairly declined  her claim for a stolen mobile phone.
background
Miss M has mobile  phone insurance underwritten by Assurant. Shes said she went  to a 
retail park to make a purchase. And she left her mobile phone in the car while she went  into 
a shop. When she returned to the car, she found  that the passenger window had been  
smashed and her phone had been taken.
She contacted Assurant  and made  a claim on her policy. She initially  told Assurant her 
phone had been left in view on the dashboard. However Assurant declined  her claim, they 
said Miss M hadnt taken  reasonable  care of the phone because  it had been  left in view.
Miss M then said her phone  hadnt been  left in view. It had been  left in a jacket  which was on 
the passenger  seat. She was unhappy with the decision to decline the claim and asked for it 
to be reviewed. But Assurant didnt change  their stance on her claim.
Miss M then brought her complaint to this service where it was considered  by one of our 
investigators. He thought she had taken  reasonable care of her phone and Assurant should 
accept the claim. Assurant didnt agree with his findings.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in January 2020  where I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
this complaint. I will now explain why.
Ive been provided  with a copy of the terms and conditions  of Miss Ms policy. The policy  will 
provide cover for theft but only if care is taken. If the phone is left anywhere it needs  to be 
locked away out of sight if possible.  This is in line with most mobile phone insurance policies.
In the terms and conditions it says:
We know how important your device is to you and we expect that you will take care of it. If 
you dont take care of your device then we may not pay your claim.
Taking care of your device means  
   Not  knowingly  leaving  your device somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen  or damaged.
Just think, would you leave your wallet  or purse there?
   If you need  to leave your device somewhere then we expect you to lock it away  out of 
sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it with someone you 
trust or concealed  out of sight in a safe place.
Ref: DRN17309792For example, if you knowingly do any of the below  we may decline your claim for not taking 
care of your device:
   leaving  your device  somewhere  you cant  see it but others can.
   leaving  your device  on display in your car.
Its not unreasonable for Assurant to say that reasonable care of the mobile phone must be 
taken. Assurant have  said Miss M didnt  do enough to keep her phone safe and didnt  take 
reasonable care and so the above  exclusion applies. I agree with them and Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the initial claims call between Miss M and Assurant. At the start of the call 
Miss M was told Please ensure that the information provided is complete  and correct  as 
failure to take reasonable care when answering  questions may impact the validity of the 
claim. The call handler asked where  the phone  was being kept in the car. Miss M said the 
phone was next to the dashboard inside the car. The call handler then asked her if the 
phone was on show and Miss M confirmed  that it was.
The call handler later tells Miss M her claim has been declined  due to not taking reasonable 
care because the phone was visible from outside the car. Miss M then says that her phone 
was in her jacket pocket and not visible.
I think Miss Ms initial testimony is the most  reliable  evidence  in this case. She was made 
aware of the importance of giving accurate information. She went  on to say the phone was 
next to the dashboard  and then confirmed it was visible  from outside  the car. I appreciate  
Miss M later said the phone was left in her jacket pocket which wasnt visible. But this was 
after the claim was turned  down because she hadnt taken reasonable care.  Given the 
circumstances of this claim,  I think its more  likely  than not that the phone was visible.
Both parties  were invited  to respond to my provisional decision. But neither  of them  
responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion I set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject  my decision 
before 14 March 2020.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1730979