K820x#14complaint
Mr S on behalf of the LS will trust complains about  how HSBC UK Bank Plc has dealt with a 
safe guard  review of the trust account.
background
Mr S manages the trust on behalf  of his sister. He says that the problems started  following a 
safeguarding review by HSBC. In summary Mr S says HSBC badly handled the review and 
that led to his sisters direct debits being  cancelled and a contract cancelled. He says HSBC  
didnt respond  to his concerns appropriately  and he was caused significant distress and 
inconvenience. Mr S would like a full apology, confirmation that HSBC  has recorded his 
sister as being vulnerable and compensation.
HSBC has accepted it didnt deal with this matter appropriately. It has apologised and paid 
£100 compensation but says its obliged to conduct  account reviews.
Mr S brought the complaint to us and our investigator accepted that HSBC could have done 
more to avoid  the direct  debit problem and generally  had made  a number  of mistakes.  The 
investigator explained that the complainant here was the trust and not Mr S so he couldnt  
recommend compensation for any distress  caused  to Mr S. The investigator concluded that 
HSBC had fairly apologised and had agreed  to record Mr Ss sisters vulnerabilities.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and says HSBC should pay him compensation for the stress  
and extra work hes been caused.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.  I realise Mr S will be disappointed  
by my decision  and I appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
Im satisfied that the complainant here is the trust and not Mr S. That means I can only 
consider the impact HSBCs mistakes  have had on the trust and not on Mr S. I appreciate  
that Mr S says hes been caused stress as a result  of whats  happened. But I hope he 
understands, for the reasons I have explained,  that is not something I can consider in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
There is no question here that HSBC  made  a number of mistakes in dealing  with the 
safeguarding review and with what took place afterwards. But Im satisfied that its 
apologised and I can see that its paid compensation.  I can also see that HSBC has said it 
has recorded details  of Mr Ss sisters vulnerabilities  and I hope that future  problems are 
avoided.
I accept that Mr S will remain  unhappy  with my decision  and I also appreciate his concerns 
about the whole process  HSBC has conducted  and why. I should explain that we are not the 
regulator of banks or building societies and so I cant fairly interfere in HSBCs running  of its 
business or how it decides to comply with its regulatory requirements.
Overall I accept HSBC has made  mistakes  in how its dealt with this matter but I dont 
require it to do anything  further in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN16511712my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S on behalf  of 
the Leonard Sims  will trust to accept or reject my decision before 30 January  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1651171