K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains HSBC  UK Bank Plc caused her stress and financial difficulties when  it 
failed to respond to her request  for a temporary  increase of her overdraft.
background
Mrs O has a current account  with HSBC. The account has had an overdraft facility for some 
time, and in July 2018 Mrs O wrote to HSBC and asked  if her overdraft could be increased 
temporarily. Mrs O waited  for just over a month to hear from HSBC.  But when she didnt  
receive a reply, she called  them to raise a complaint.
Mrs Os complaint outlined her disappointment  in not hearing from HSBC. She also 
explained that their failure to increase her overdraft  meant a number of payments hadnt 
gone through. Mrs O also had to borrow money  from family  to ensure she was able to meet 
her financial  commitments.
HSBC issued their final response  in October  2018.  In this they explained Mrs Os July letter  
had been incorrectly  filed by the branch Mrs O wrote to. To put things  right, HSBC said they 
would remove adverse markers  from her credit file and reimburse  £520  of interest and 
charges applied to her account. HSBC also paid her £250 for the stress and upset their 
mistake had caused.
Mrs O remained  unhappy with HSBC.  Shes  said their delay in responding to her meant  
credit card payments didnt go through, and her monthly payments  have  increased  as a 
result of this. Shes also said that she was unable to pay for medical treatment  and her 
health has suffered  because  of this. Mrs O was also unhappy HSBCs actions had tarnished 
her reputation, and mentioned a legal  dispute that had been very stressful  for her.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Os complaint, but didnt  think it should be upheld. He 
explained that he couldnt be certain  Mrs Os request for an overdraft would have been 
accepted in July 2017. And because of that he didnt  think it was fair to ask HSBC to do 
anything more in respect  of the returned payments.  Our investigator  also said he hadnt  seen 
anything to suggest HSBC actions had an impact on Mrs Os legal dispute. 
Mrs O disagreed with our investigator, so her complaint was passed to me to look into.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding 
Mrs Os complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to her, but Ill explain my 
reasoning below.
In July 2018 Mrs O did the right thing in contacting HSBC when she was experiencing 
financial difficulties. So it was disappointing to see that HSBC didnt respond to Mrs O when 
she asked for help. 
I agree  HSBC didnt  do what  they should  have done  in July 2018.  But HSBC, like other  
banks would need to consider Mrs Os circumstances before they could increase her 
overdraft. As this didnt  happen, I cant be certain that Mrs Os request would have been 
accepted. So I cant fairly  say that Mrs O wouldnt have  had payments returned  or needed to 
borrow money in August  2018.
Ref: DRN15001572While I cant be certain  that Mrs Os overdraft would have been increased, I do consider 
HSBCs failure to respond did cause Mrs O avoidable stress.  So, its only fair HSBC tried to 
rectify this. Mrs Os credit file may have had negative markers as a result of the returned 
payments. But in October 2018 HSBC checked  Mrs Os credit  to ensure her HSBC  account 
wasnt flagged for negative reasons. And I consider that was the right thing  to do. Thats  
because if the increased overdraft  had been  granted, its most likely Mrs O would have been 
able to meet  her financial commitments.  But if Mrs O was told her overdraft wouldnt be 
increased, she could  have let her creditors know  about her circumstances or asked her 
family for help sooner.  Given how proactive Mrs O was in contacting  HSBC,  I consider it is 
most likely she would have taken steps  to prevent her payments being reversed.
HSBC also paid Mrs O £250  in recognition of the stress their mistake  caused. I consider this 
offer is fair in the circumstances.  Thats  because  Ive seen Mrs O had been  able to get help 
from her family before she raised her complaint with HSBC at the end of August 2018.  So 
her account  was back within the agreed overdraft limit around one month  after shed asked 
HSBC for help.
Mrs Os proactivity  in sorting her financial  situation meant she was able to make the payment 
for her medical insurance within two weeks of her usual repayment  date. It also meant she 
was able to make payments to her credit cards and other services she uses  in August.
Ive also considered what Mrs O has said about her legal dispute. But Ive not seen any 
evidence that shows HSBCs actions were connected in any way to this dispute. So I cant  
fairly say their mistake  had an impact on the actions of the other party  in this dispute, or the 
way in which Mrs O attempted to resolve  it.
Mrs O has asked that HSBC should  at least  contribute to the repayments of the money 
borrowed from family. But I dont  agree that would be fair. Ultimately, the money Mrs O 
borrowed was necessary for her to meet her existing financial commitments.  And had the 
overdraft been  extended, Mrs O would have been  responsible for repaying  the extra money 
she had borrowed.  So I wont  be asking HSBC to reimburse Mrs O for money she would 
always have been  responsible to repay.
I am sorry  to hear about the difficult time Mrs O has experienced  especially to hear that the 
numerous problems  caused her health to deteriorate. But I cant  fairly say all the stress and 
difficulties shes experienced were  caused solely by HSBC. And its for that reason I wont  be 
asking HSBC to do anything more to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1500157