K821x#15complaint
Ms S and Mr M complain  about their mortgage with Santander UK Plc. They  say that interest 
rates it offered them  in 2019 werent  competitive. And they say it should  have offered them  
rates sooner   as theyve  been paying the standard variable rate (SVR) since 2011.
background
Ms S and Mr M have  an interest only mortgage with Santander. They had a fixed  rate which 
expired in 2011, and from then on the mortgage was on the standard  variable rate (SVR). 
In April 2019, Ms S and Mr M contacted Santander  to discuss  new interest rates.  It offered a 
two-year fixed rate at 2.79% with a £999 fee, or a 2.99%  rate with no fee. It also offered a 
three-year fixed rate at 3.29% with no fee. As there were only four years  left on the 
mortgage, no longer  term fixed  rates were available, though  they could also have taken a 
tracker rate at 2.79% with a £999  fee.
Ms S and Mr M complained that they didnt think these rates  were  competitive. And they 
complained that Santander hadnt  contacted them before to invite them  to apply for new 
rates. 
They also complained that if they took one of the rates  with fees, the fee couldnt be added 
to the mortgage  balance  because Santander said the loan to value was above 90%. Ms S 
and Mr M said they had recently had their property valued at £280,000 which would  make  
the loan to value below  75%, so this couldnt  be right. But Santander said its valuation  was 
£208,000. Ms S and Mr M said they believed Santander was manipulating the valuation to 
offer them less competitive rates. 
Ms S and Mr M also complained that they had previously asked for a rate, in 2014, but again 
the rates werent competitive  at that time they were offered 4.29% with a fee or 4.59% 
without a fee, when the SVR was 4.74%. 
Ms S and Mr M say that as customers with a large  interest only mortgage they are trapped  
with Santander,  and being taken  advantage  of.
In April 2020, Ms S and Mr M switched to Santanders follow on rate. They  said they had 
also decided  to put the property on the market. 
Santander offered  to arrange a free valuation for Ms S and Mr Ms property. Our investigator  
thought that was fair  and said that if the valuation showed that there  was a change to the 
loan to value (LTV) which would affect  the rates available, Santander should backdate that 
to April 2019. 
The valuation showed that the property was worth £290,000  in December 2020. At the same 
date, the automated valuation model  Santander uses estimated it was worth £228,000.
Santander accepted that there was a substantial difference  between  the valuation estimate 
produced by the model and the valuation by a surveyor  visiting  the property. 
Santander said that the valuation model showed an increase from £208,000 to £228,000 
between April 2019 and December 2020  suggesting house price  inflation in the area of 
around 10%.
Ref: DRN12059792Based on that 10% figure, that would suggest,  Santander said, that the property was 
probably worth around £265,000 in April 2019.  This would reduce the LTV at the time  not 
by enough to change the rates  Ms S and Mr M were eligible for, but by enough to add a 
product fee to the mortgage balance, as Ms S had wanted.
Santander therefore offered to backdate the 2.79% tracker rate (because Ms S had said at 
the time she wanted  a product with no tie in) to April 2019, adding  the £999 fee to the 
mortgage balance.
Ms S and Mr M didnt  accept this offer. They said it was the same as they were offered in 
April 2019. Ms S said that she believed they would  have been eligible for rates  of around 
1.5%, based on Santanders  published announcements  of rates.  And they wanted 
compensation for the worry and upset  of not being given access to a fair rate of interest, and 
of being led to believe their property was worth much less than it was  when they were  
relying on it to repay their interest  only mortgage.
my provisional decision
I didnt think Santander  had done  enough to put things right. I issued a provisional decision 
setting out my thoughts on the case. I said:
Our investigator said that we couldnt  consider whether  Santander should  fairly have offered 
Ms S and Mr M a rate between 2011  when  they reverted to the SVR  and 2013, six years 
before they complained. He said that period was out of time under our rules.  Ms S and Mr M 
agreed with that, and so do I. I therefore  wont say any more about what happened in this 
period.
Once Ms S and Mr M were on the SVR, from 2013 onwards, there was no general obligation 
for Santander to pro-actively contact them to offer new interest rates.  It included  information 
about how to apply on their annual statements. 
From 2018,  however, while  there  was still no regulatory obligation  to pro-actively offer new 
rates, Santander  in common with many other lenders  undertook to write  to customers on 
SVR who could benefit from new interest  rates.  While this is a voluntary agreement not a 
regulatory requirement, it was something Santander committed to do and in my view now 
represents good industry practice.
Ms S and Mr M did in fact contact Santander to ask for new rates  in April 2019, not long after 
the agreement  came into force. So in this decision Ill focus on whether they were treated 
fairly in their two applications for rates   in 2014 and 2019.
In April 2019, Ms S contacted Santander and was told that rates  were  available, but she 
couldnt add any product  fee to the loan balance. And she was told that the rates discussed 
were the only ones available based on her loan to value.
Ms S didnt think the property valuation  based on its index   that Santander  relied on to 
produce the loan to value was accurate. She asked what  could be done about  it, and was 
told nothing could be done.
I dont think this was fair. Santander should  have  given Ms S the opportunity  of asking for 
her property to be valued at that point.
Ref: DRN12059793It is generally reasonable for a lender  to rely on estimated valuations produced by an index 
for rate switches  its not practical or cost-effective  to revalue properties regularly during a 
mortgage. But the indexes available  are only estimates based on local market movements. 
And so where,  in an individual case, a customer reasonably disputes  the index valuation,  its 
fair for the lender to agree  to a physical valuation,  at the borrowers  expense.
In my view, thats what fairly should  have  happened  in this case. Ms S wasnt  given this 
option, but I think that if she had been she would have taken it.
Once the complaint came  to us, Santander  offered to carry out a free valuation,  and I think  
thats a fair way to resolve this part of the complaint.
The valuation showed that the index was inaccurate. And while the valuation  showed the 
value as at December 2020  not April 2019   its likely the index  was inaccurate then too. 
Its not easy to retrospectively value a property, and I think Santanders approach to arriving 
at an estimate for the earlier date based on the December 2020  value  minus  local house  
price inflation is a fair one.
Santander said that while this reduced the loan to value, it didnt reduce it enough to make a 
difference in the rates available.
I wasnt convinced by its explanation about  this, so I asked Santander for some  more 
information about its criteria for setting  rates,  as well as the rates  it had available.
Santander told me that the index loan to value in April 2019 was around 96%. But the loan to 
value using the figure derived from the survey reduced the loan to value  to around 80%.
In common with all lenders, Santander  offers different products to different customers. In 
very general  terms, the riskier a mortgage the higher the interest rate. 
Santander said that it places mortgages into bands, based on various  criteria.  And the 
valuation made  no difference to the band  the mortgage was in  and therefore  the rates 
Ms S and Mr M were  eligible  for. This is because the loan to value was over 75% and more 
than 50% of the mortgage was on interest  only terms. That was true whether the mortgage  
was at 80% or 96%.
Ms S and Mr M made clear that they wanted a rate with no tie in  no early repayment 
charge (ERC). Santanders  fixed rates  all carry ERCs, so this means they would have taken 
a tracker rate.
The tracker  rate, based on the band Ive set out above, was 2.79% (base rate plus 2.04%) - 
which was the rate Santander offered to backdate. This was the rate whether the loan to 
value was 80% or 96%.
However, if Ms S and Mr Ms mortgage  had been  on repayment terms the valuation would 
have made  a difference.
With a loan to value of 80% on repayment  terms, they would have been eligible for a lower 
tracker rate of 1.74% (base rate plus 0.99%).
Ref: DRN12059794I dont think its fair for Santander to offer Ms S and Mr M a higher rate because theyre on 
interest only terms, compared to the rate it would offer them  if they had a mortgage that was 
similar in all other respects  but on repayment terms.
I accept that lending standards have changed over the years. And as a result, interest  only 
mortgages are far less common,  and lenders more reluctant to offer them. But 
Ms S and Mr Ms mortgage was taken out in earlier times, and Santander  was comfortable 
with lending to them when the mortgage  was taken out. 
One consequence of the changes to lending standards is that it would be much harder now 
for Ms S and Mr M to move their mortgage elsewhere, especially as they dont have a 
repayment strategy that would be likely  to be acceptable to a new lender.
Where a borrower cant move, theres a particular obligation on a lender to treat them fairly  
and not to put them in a worse position  compared to other borrowers with similar 
characteristics.
Im not persuaded that having an interest  only mortgage  means  that Ms S and Mr M have 
different characteristics to other existing customers with similar loan to value and similar  
track record of paying their mortgage. 
And so Im not persuaded that its fair for Ms S and Mr M to be placed in a higher band than 
they would  have been had they had a repayment mortgage.
Im satisfied that working back  from the 2020  valuation and backdating a rate from April 2019 
is a fair way to resolve this complaint. But Im not satisfied its fair to do so by offering a 
higher rate because Ms S and Mr M have  an interest  only mortgage. I think a fair resolution  
is to put them back in the position they would  have been in had Santander  offered them the 
1.74% tracker rate, not the 2.79% tracker rate.
This will mean that Ms S and Mr M have made  overpayments on the SVR and then the 
follow on rate compared to the rate they should  have been  on. They should have the choice 
of either  having  those  overpayments  refunded to them, or used to reduce their mortgage 
balance.
And a two-year tracker rate from April 2019 would expire around now. So from April 2021 
Ms S and Mr M will revert to the follow on rate.
When Santander responds to this provisional  decision, it should also tell me what  rates  
Ms S and Mr M are eligible  for now  using  a loan to value based on the December 2020 
valuation plus index  inflation  and without distinguishing between  interest  only and 
repayment terms. It may be that options are limited as Ms S and Mr M are close to the end 
of the mortgage  term. But if there are rates other than the follow  on rate available,  it seems 
sensible to me to include a rate going forward as part of the resolution of this complaint 
rather than asking Ms S and Mr M to immediately go through  another  application process. 
Ive also looked  at what they were  offered in 2014. Im satisfied that, at that time, the rates 
would have been the same with either the index or valuation value, and the same on either  
interest only or repayment terms. The rates  Santander offered at that time, which  
Ms S and Mr M chose  not to take, were the only ones  fairly  available. So I dont think  its fair 
to ask Santander to backdate a rate offer to 2014,  when Ms S and Mr M were offered a fair 
Ref: DRN12059795rate but chose  not to take it because they didnt think  it represented  good  value  in their 
circumstances at the time.
Finally, Ms S and Mr M have set out some of the impact this complaint has had on them.  
And I do think that Santanders insistence  in April 2019 that the index valuation was correct  
and there  was nothing Ms S and Mr M could do about it did cause them  upset and worry. It 
led them  to believe their loan to value was much  higher than it actually was  and that they 
were in a more precarious position as they approach the end of their interest  only term. Im 
satisfied this did cause  them  unnecessary  worry, and I think £350 compensation is fair in the 
circumstances.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Ms S and Mr M agreed with my provisional decision. But they said they had each suffered 
considerable distress  and anxiety, and they thought  the £350 compensation should  be paid 
to each of them, not to both of them jointly. And they said they wanted  8% interest added to 
the redress whether  or not it was refunded to them or used to reduce the mortgage  balance. 
Santander also agreed with my provisional decision. It re-calculated  Ms S and Mr Ms loan to 
value as of now,  based on the December 2020 valuation plus index inflation since.  It said the 
loan to value was around 70% as of March 2021, taking into account inflation  since the last 
survey. Adding the overpaid interest  to the mortgage balance rather  than refunding  it to Ms S 
and Mr M would reduce  that figure  but not by enough to change  the interest rate they 
would be eligible for from now on, because the current band is for loan to value of 60% and 
above.
Santander said that in that band,  Ms S and Mr M were eligible for a tracker rate of 1.44% 
above base rate  currently 1.54%. There were fixed rates too  the best fixed rate was 
1.34% with a £1,499 fee, 1.44% with a £999  fee or 1.79% with no fee. However, all the 
tracker rates  ran until July 2023  and Ms S and Mr Ms mortgage was due to expire on 1 June 
2023. Therefore  if Ms S and Mr M wanted to take a fixed rate rather than a tracker  rate, the 
term of their mortgage would need to be extended by a couple  of months  which would 
reduce their monthly payments but increase the time over which interest  would be charged.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased that, in broad  terms, there is now agreement about the fair outcome of this case. 
But there remain points  to be resolved about what Santander needs to do to put matters  
right.
Dealing first with the overcharged interest,  I dont think it would be appropriate to add 8% 
interest if Ms S and Mr M choose  to have the overpayments  used to reduce their mortgage  
balance.
The overpayments are money that Ms S and Mr M shouldnt have had to pay out, because 
their mortgage payments  were too high.
If Santander hadnt set the interest rate so high, Ms S and Mr Ms monthly mortgage 
payments would have  been lower. They would then have had a choice of either keeping that 
Ref: DRN12059796money back and using it for other  purposes  or of voluntarily using it to overpay their 
mortgage.
My redress  aims to put them back in the position they should have been in, by giving them  
that choice now.  If they choose to have the money refunded  to them,  I put them back  in the 
position they would have  been in by returning the money, and also compensate them  for 
being deprived of it and the possible gains they might have been  able to make elsewhere 
with it. Thats what the 8% simple interest  is for; its a notional figure to compensate  Ms S 
and Mr M for being deprived of funds  they otherwise would have had and been able to use 
as they saw fit.
If, however,  they decide to use the overpayments to reduce the mortgage  balance, I put 
them back  in the position they would have been in had that been  the choice they had made  
at the time. That involves  re-working the mortgage  as if they had made overpayments each  
month  and as if, therefore, their balance was lower and they were charged less interest  in 
future months.
In other  words, if Ms S and Mr M decide they want to be treated as if they had never made 
those payments, they are entitled  to the money back plus compensation for being  deprived 
of it. But if they decide  they want to be treated as if they had made overpayments to their 
mortgage, they are entitled to have their mortgage  balance reduced not just by the 
overpayments, but by mortgage interest  on the overpayments. 
It therefore wouldnt be fair to use the overpayments to reduce the mortgage balance,  
reduce the interest charged  on the mortgage  and pay 8% interest. That would be to give Ms 
S and Mr M compensation as if theyd  made  both choices simultaneously,  which  was never  
possible. It would result in them being  compensated twice over.
Ive thought again about my award for their trouble and upset.  I recognise  they have both 
been troubled by what  happened. And my award takes that into account, and compensates 
them both for the trouble they have both experienced. Im satisfied that £350  in total 
represents fair compensation.
Finally, the interest  rates Santander provided  for their mortgage as of now,  which Ive quoted 
above, are illustrative  of the position  as at March 2021. They will need  to be revisited  based 
on Santanders current product range, which may change from time to time  as well as the 
current loan to value  as of now. Though we are in a period of house  price inflation, it seems 
unlikely that the loan to value has fallen from 70% to below 60% between March and June 
2021, and so Santander should provide the current rates  for the 60% and above band. 
Ref: DRN12059797my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to:
Re-work Ms S and Mr Ms mortgage  so that it is as if the mortgage had been on a 
tracker rate of base  rate plus 0.99%  for two years from April 2019  to date;
Give Ms S and Mr M the option  of either:
oHaving the resulting  overpayments refunded to them, adding simple annual  
interest of 8% running  from the date of each overpayment to date of refund;  
or
oUsing the resulting  overpayments to reduce their mortgage balance month by 
month, including the interest charged as a result;
Give Ms S and Mr M the option  of selecting  either a further two year tracker rate or 
two year fixed rate from 1 July 2021, if necessary extending the mortgage  term to 
match the duration of the fixed rate; and 
Pay Ms S and Mr M £350 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 July 2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1205979