K822xcomplaint
M C has complained about the way that Shawbrook Bank Limited has dealt with a claim he 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
In 2015 Mr C entered into an agreement with a company called Absolute  Renewable Energy 
Ltd (Absolute) for the supply  and installation of a solar panel system.  Mr C paid an initial 
deposit, but the balance  of the cost was paid for by way of a loan arranged  with Shawbrook.
Mr C purchased the system on the basis it would pay for itself over the 10-year loan term 
and continue to provide  a financial benefit  thereafter   through  a combination  of energy 
savings and receipt of Feed-In-Tariff (FIT) payments from selling excess energy back  to 
the grid.  But he was never signed  up to the FIT payment scheme (before it was withdrawn) 
and says the system  has never covered its cost.
Under s.75 a finance provider is liable to the same extent as the supplier of goods for any 
mis-representation or breach of contract.  As Absolute had ceased trading Mr C made a 
claim against Shawbrook  under  s.75.
As a resolution couldnt be reached with Shawbrook, Mr C referred his complaint to this 
Service.  One of our investigators reviewed matters and liaised with Shawbrook to provide 
further information about Mr Cs situation. 
Shawbrook made  an offer to resolve  matters. Essentially, it calculated what  benefits Mr C 
was likely to receive and compared them to the actual cost of the loan over its term.  To put 
things right it offered  to write-off the outstanding  loan balance of just over £4,000 and refund 
just over £5,000  to Mr C.  The investigator endorsed the offer as being  a fair resolution in the 
circumstances.
Mr C didnt accept Shawbrooks offer.  He  said that he wanted  Shawbrook to arrange for the 
removal of the solar panel system.  He made a few further points to support his request:
He didnt consider  that Shawbrooks calculation accounted for the deposit hed paid.
He had concerns  about the cost of maintaining the system.
He considered Shawbrook should  have done more to help him register for the FIT 
scheme.
An engineer  whod  previously looked at the system  has highlighted defected wiring 
that could pose a fire risk.
Without receiving FIT payments, the energy  savings alone dont make  it worthwhile 
having the system.
Shawbrook agreed  to arrange  for an inspection of the system  to ensure it was set up and 
functioning properly.   Due to the lockdown,  resulting from the current  pandemic, no 
inspection could be carried  out  but it agreed  to arrange the inspection as a priority when 
possible.
As the investigator  wasnt persuaded  to change his view and no agreement  could be 
reached, the complaint  has been passed  to me to carry out a fresh review.
Ref: DRN17030622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator,  and for broadly the same  reasons.
I understand that when Mr C initially  made  his s.75 claim to Shawbrook it was on the basis 
that the system  had been mis-sold to him as it was not paying for itself.   But during this 
complaint Mr C has also raised concerns about the system being installed and operating 
incorrectly.
With regards to the installation of the solar panel system  in particular, the faulty  wiring  Mr 
C has referred to  I understand Shawbrook has confirmed it will arrange for an inspection  
as a priority when possible.  I think this is reasonable and acknowledge that the current 
pandemic lockdown may have an impact  of when this can be carried  out.  
As the solar panel system  was sold with a 10-year  warranty guarantee and Absolute is no 
longer trading, Shawbrook is responsible for honouring  that guarantee.
Shawbrook has also accepted that the system was misrepresented,  and so the key issue for 
me to decide  is whether its offer is a fair and reasonable way of putting things right.
Mr C says that he was told the benefits of the system would cover  the cost of maintaining the 
loan  making it self-funding.  So, I think the appropriate resolution would be for Shawbrook 
to put him in that position.
The offer that Shawbrook  has made to Mr C is in line with the approach this Service would 
recommend to make the system self-funding.   It used industry expert reports  to calculate  the 
likely benefit  Mr C would receive  from energy savings  and compared that to the cost of the 
loan to assess his losses.  
I note the calculation was based  upon the estimated benefits over 8 years and not the full 10 
years of the loan term  in recognition of the fact the system hasnt operated properly  for a 
considerable period.  I think this adjustment is fair and reasonable.
I understand that Mr C considers Shawbrook at fault for the fact his is not registered  to 
receive FIT payments. But it wasnt involved in the installation or system  set up and so I 
cant reasonably  say its responsible for the failure  to be registered on the FIT scheme.  But  
as Mr C doesnt benefit from FIT payments, the calculation  reflects  that.
So, overall Im satisfied Shawbrooks offer to cancel  the balance of the loan and refund any 
overpayments to Mr C plus 8% simple interest  is fair and reasonable.  I note Shawbrook  also 
included £200  for the trouble and upset Mr C has experienced.  Given  the time it took 
Shawbrook to deal with the issues initially and the impact of that upon Mr C, I agree a sum of 
£200 is appropriate.
I realise Mr C may be disappointed with my conclusions as he wants  the system to be 
removed and to unwind the loan agreement.  But given that hed wanted the solar system at 
the time of sale, and he expected it to be self-funding, an offer to put him in that position 
seems fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN17030623my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Shawbrook  Bank Limited.
To put things right, Im satisfied Shawbrooks offer as detailed  above is fair and reasonable 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 October  2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1703062