K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains about Zenith Insurance plcs (Zenith) overall handling of her claim under 
her motor insurance policy.
background 
Mrs C was involved in an accident on 26 August  2016. The accident happened  in the 
grounds of the hospital where  Mrs C was attending an appointment with her mother. 
Mrs C has raised  a number of issues about  how the claim was handled:
reporting the claim and recovery - Mrs C reported the accident  to her broker who 
told her that as it was a bank  holiday weekend there was no one in the office  at 
Zenith and so it couldnt be reported to it. So Mrs C used her roadside assistance 
membership to have the car recovered  from the scene of the accident to her home 
address. Mrs C feels that Zenith shouldve provided  this service. Zenith has 
reimbursed Mrs C for the cost of this.
liability - Mrs C felt the third party should be held at fault for the accident  as she said 
she was performing a three point turn and the third party was driving too fast and hit 
her. The third party insurer disputed liability and photos were provided to show that 
the positon of Mrs Cs car was across the line and into the opposite  lane. As a result 
of this, Zenith was looking to settle the claim on a fault basis.
Zenith instructed  solicitors to look into settling the claim on a 50/50 basis and this 
was ongoing at the time of the complaint coming  to us. Since the complaint has been 
with us, this has been  settled as a fault claim on a without prejudice basis.
inspecting  and valuing the vehicle - Zenith  carried  out a desk  top review of Mrs 
Cs vehicle and declared it a total loss; Mrs C thinks that Zenith shouldve sent an 
engineer to inspect  the vehicle in person.
Mrs C was unhappy with the valuation of £500 that Zenith initially  offered for her 
vehicle on 3 October 2016,  and disputed this with it. It agreed to increase its offer to 
£1,100. Mrs C was still unhappy with this offer and was considering having her car 
repaired, so she didnt agree to the settlement  until February 2018. 
courtesy car - Mrs C felt that Zenith  shouldve  provided a courtesy car under her 
policy. As it didnt do this, Mrs C had to hire a car to take her mother to her hospital 
appointments and also incurred expenses  travelling to and from her parents house 
to support her mother. Mrs C wants Zenith  to reimburse her for these expenses.
medical expenses - Mrs C was entitled  to claim for her medical expenses  up to 
£250. Zenith didnt  notify her of this but her broker did. Zenith  has paid this element 
of the claim, but Mrs C is upset  that it didnt tell her this was something she was 
entitled to. 
Zenith responded to Mrs Cs complaint  about all of the above  points,  it agreed  that it had got 
some things wrong and couldve done better  and offered her £150 compensation to 
apologise for this. Mrs C didnt think this was a fair reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience and brought  her complaint to this service.
Ref: DRN16045092The investigator upheld  Mrs Cs complaint in part. She felt that overall  Zenith hadnt handled 
the claim as they should, but that Mrs C hadnt  been  financially deprived because of it. As a 
result she recommended Zenith increase its compensation to a total of £250.
Mrs C didnt agree and so the matter has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so I have to tell Mrs C that I think the investigator reached the right outcome 
here and Ill explain  why referring  to each of the headings mentioned  above.
reporting the claim and recovery
The accident  happened  on 26 August 2016;  Mrs C reported this to her broker,  who she tells 
us said Zenith wasnt open  to report the claim to.
Zenith has a claims reporting line that is open  24 hours a day seven days per week  including  
bank holidays.  So the information  that Mrs Cs broker  gave  to her was incorrect.  Zenith 
doesnt have any record of Mrs Cs broker trying to contact it that weekend. 
Had Zenith been aware of the accident,  I think it wouldve arranged  for Mrs Cs car to be 
recovered from the scene of the accident. But, Zeniths  first knowledge of the accident was 
when it was contacted by the third party insurer on 1 September  2016. 
Mrs C has told us that Zenith has reimbursed the costs she had relating to her using a 
roadside assistance company to recover the vehicle so I havent  looked into this further. 
Having said this, I cant reasonably hold Zenith responsible for the incorrect information 
given to Mrs C by her broker about  when it was open and so I dont uphold this aspect of 
Mrs Cs complaint. 
liability
In deciding whether  Zenith acted fairly in how it settled the claim I note the policy  allows it to 
take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim. This is the same as every 
other motor  insurance  policy Ive seen and is a standard term in such  insurance contracts. 
Even so, it still needs to be fair to Mrs C in settling the claim.  This means  that the insurer  
should only settle a claim  when  its more  likely  than not the claim against the insured would 
succeed in court. This is because  Zenith wouldnt want to risk all the costs and expenses  in 
defending a claim that theyre more likely to lose in court than be successful.
Ref: DRN16045093Zenith considered  the testimony  of Mrs C and the third party  as well as the photographic 
evidence. It appointed a solicitor to explore the possibility of a 50/50 settlement but having 
done so, and based on all of the information available  to it; it decided it should settle the 
claim as it didnt believe it was more likely that it would succeed in court. 
Taking this into account, I havent seen any evidence that would allow  me to say that Zenith  
acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it settled  the claim. However,  because  Zenith  settled 
the claim on a without prejudice  basis, Mrs C is free to seek  legal advice and pursue the 
third party in court if she decides this is something shed like to pursue.
inspecting, valuing the vehicle and settlement  of the claim
. When an insurer thinks its likely a vehicle will be a total loss, it can choose to do a desktop  
review of a car rather than sending an engineer to inspect it. It normally bases a decision 
about this taking into account  the age and value  of the vehicle along with the likely costs  of 
repairs. I understand that Mrs C wouldve preferred to have the vehicle inspected but Im 
satisfied that, in this case, Zenith  was entitled  to do a desktop report  of her car instead.  And I 
havent seen any evidence that this has negatively affected the outcome of the claim.
Zeniths initial offer of £500 was put to Mrs C on 3 October 2016. As Mrs C didnt respond it 
chased her for her agreement. She told Zenith of her intention  to dispute the valuation,  
through her solicitors  on 11 January 2017;  it informed Zenith that it would provide evidence 
to support the dispute. 
Zenith didnt receive  this, and did nothing to chase  this before the solicitor wrote  to it on 26 
April asking had it received the evidence.  As Zenith hadnt, the solicitor resent the 
information on 26 May 2017.  Zenith  then increased  its offer on 6 June 2017. Mrs C didnt 
accept the revised  offer.
Further information was sent to Zenith on 28 June 2017. Zenith then liaised with the 
manufacturer and increased its offer to £1,100 minus the excess  on 21 July 2017. Mrs C 
was unsure at this time if she wanted to keep the vehicle and didnt accept the offer until 5 
February 2018. 
It wasnt until 5 February  2018  that Zenith  could  arrange for Mrs Cs vehicle to be collected 
as up until that point Mrs C was still the legal  owner  of the car and hadnt decided if she 
wanted to keep it.
I appreciate that Mrs C feels that its been  a long time from the accident until her claim was 
actually paid out and has asked about interest being added to the settlement amount. But I 
dont feel thats  appropriate in this case,  Ill explain.
Zenith initially made an offer that was too low, but once it was presented with further 
evidence to support  an increase in the valuation it did amend  its offer.  Id normally  expect a 
business to make an interim payment while negotiations take place. But as Mrs C was 
unsure if she wanted to keep the car it couldnt  do that, as retaining the vehicle would affect  
the settlement  amount further. 
Mrs C was entirely within her rights to take her time to decide if she wanted to keep the car 
but this is ultimately  what held up the claim settlement being paid. So I wont be asking 
Zenith to add interest to the settlement,  as it was ready to pay out and was held up by Mrs C 
Ref: DRN16045094thinking about how to proceed. However  I do think it couldve done more to chase the 
evidence between January and April when the solicitor told it the valuation  was in dispute.  
And so Ive taken this into account  when considering the overall  compensation that I think  
Zenith should pay to Mrs C in this matter.
courtesy car
The policy says:
Courtesy car provision
Following a claim under this section of your policy,  you may be entitled to a courtesy car 
while your car is being repaired. This is subject  to:
us agreeing that the claim is covered under your policy;
the repairs being carried out by one of our approved repairers; and
the approved  repairer having  a car available for you to use.
You will not be entitled to a courtesy  car if:
we cannot  repair your car or the cost of repairing your car is uneconomical or
your policy  does  not cover the damage.
Once Mrs Cs car was deemed to be a total loss on 3 October 2017, she was not eligible for 
a courtesy car. So I have  only looked  at the time before this date to see if Mrs C shouldve 
been given a courtesy car.
The accident  happened  on 26 October 2016 but was not reported to Zenith  by Mrs C until 9 
September 2016. Although Mrs C was speaking  to her broker  and an accident  management  
company, she hadnt made contact with Zenith until this point. I dont think  this delay was 
intentional as Mrs C wanted to report it on the day of the accident and would have done so if 
not for the information she says her broker gave her. But, as Ive explained above, I cant 
hold Zenith  responsible for this.
Once Mrs C was in contact with Zenith it then had to agree the claim was covered under  the 
policy as per the above policy term.  To do this it needed a copy  of the V5 document and 
images of the vehicle.  Mrs C gave  it photos  of the vehicle on 28 September  2016 and the V5 
document on 30 September 2016. Until that point, Zenith wasnt in a position to assess and, 
if appropriate, accept  the claim.
Once Zenith had the information  it accepted the claim and made  the decision to write  off Mrs 
Cs car within three working days. I dont think  three days  is unreasonable  or unusual  and so 
Im satisfied that Zenith hasnt acted unfairly  when not offering Mrs C a courtesy car, it 
follows I wont be asking it to reimburse  her car rental or other travel expenses.
medical expenses
I can understand why Mrs C was upset  that Zenith didnt point out that she had this cover 
under her policy and would be entitled  to claim for it. And I think it wouldve been  good  
customer service  for it to have done  so. So Im upholding this aspect  of Mrs Cs complaint  
and Ive taken  this into account  when  assessing  the overall compensation that I think  Zenith 
should pay to Mrs C in this matter.
Ref: DRN16045095Summary
Ive upheld Mrs Cs complaints about Zeniths  part in the delays in it valuing her car and its 
failure to inform her of the medical  cover she was entitled to under  the policy. To put things 
right, Zenith should pay compensation to Mrs C of £250 in total. 
Mrs C has asked us how much  is attributable  to each area of her complaint.  Id like to clarify  
that when deciding an amount of compensation we look at cases holistically  rather  than 
breaking it down  to individual points within the complaint. 
I have mentioned above that the information  Mrs C told us was given to her by her broker 
was incorrect. If Mrs C is unhappy  with the information she was given  she will need to take 
this up with her broker in the first instance  before this service could consider it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Zenith Insurance plc to pay Mrs C £250  compensation  for the trouble and upset in this 
matter. It is entitled to deduct any compensation payment already made to her under this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1604509