K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank Plc has not refunded him in relation  to a transaction made  on 
his credit card.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
In brief summary, I didnt  think  Barclays had been wrong not to refund Mr S.
Barclays replied to my provisional decision to say it had nothing  further to add. Mr S hasnt 
replied.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party to the complaint has put forward any new evidence  or arguments for me to 
consider. In light of this, I see no reason  to depart from the findings I made in my provisional 
decision. It follows that I dont think Barclays was wrong not to refund Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, and in my attached provisional decision, I do not uphold  
Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN18157832COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank Plc has not refunded him in relation to a transaction made  on his credit 
card.
background
The background  to this complaint is that Mr Ss daughter  attended  a photoshoot with a company 
which I will call X on 24 October  2015, and ordered a number  of photographs  which  were paid for 
using Mr Ss Barclaycard account.  The photographs  cost £995 and the money was paid to X. Mr Ss 
daughter was 17 at the time and Mr Ss wife (Mrs S) signed the order form.
Mrs S also signed a contract with a modelling  agency, which Ill call Z, dated 29 October 2015. 
There had already been  some  contact with Z before this date, because  they arranged  the photoshoot. 
The contract contained  a clause which said Z would  refund the full cost of the daughters  photographs 
if the work she was offered  over the course of a year did not exceed the amount  that had been paid 
for them (subject to certain  conditions).
In the event,  no offers  of work  were  forthcoming but no refund was given by Z either. Z was then 
dissolved as a company  in December 2016.
In the meantime, Mr S had phoned Barclays on 26 October 2015 to ask that the £995 transaction to X 
be cancelled. Barclays said he would need to wait until the transaction was no longer pending before 
he could dispute  it, which he apparently  did in November 2015 but with no action taken  by Barclays.
Later, in January 2017, Mr S called again to dispute the transaction.  Barclays attempted  whats known  
as a chargeback in an attempt to recover the funds from X. This chargeback was disputed  by X, 
which said the payment had been for the photographs which they had provided, and any promise of a 
refund was the responsibility of Z. Barclays accepted  what X said about the chargeback, but also 
considered whether Mr S had a valid claim  under  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75). It concluded  that he did not. Finally, Barclays thought  about  whether the transaction  
had been fraudulent, but concluded this wasnt the case because  there was no dispute that Mr S had 
authorised the transaction.
Barclays sent its findings  to Mr S in a final response letter. It paid him £50 compensation  for poor 
customer service  but said it would not refund the transaction. Mr S was dissatisfied  with this response 
and referred  his complaint  to this service, where it was looked  into by an investigator. Our investigator 
said she didnt think the complaint should be upheld, because Mr S didnt have a valid claim under 
Section 75. 
Mr S disagreed and asked  us to review  the matter again, so the case has now been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide provisionally whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss complaint is that, essentially, his family  was deceived into paying  £995 for the photographs. He 
wants a refund from Barclays. 
When someone makes  a purchase on a credit card, and they have a problem with what  theyve 
bought, then their credit card company  may be able to help in certain circumstances. This may be 
because they have a legal obligation, or because they are able to dispute the transaction on their 
customers behalf as a matter of good practice. There are specific criteria that need to be met 
however, for such  help to be available.
Ref: DRN18157833the nature of the complaint
Mr S says that what has happened is fraud, by which I understand him to mean  that Z tricked  him and 
his family into the purchase by putting pressure on them and telling them things which were  not true. I 
dont believe, based on the evidence  Ive seen, that Mr S is saying  his card was used without his 
permission to make the transaction, so I havent considered the complaint from that angle. I have 
however, considered whether Barclays was wrong to say it couldnt obtain a refund for Mr S via a 
chargeback, or reimburse him under Section 75, and my conclusion is that Barclays was not wrong to 
say these things. Ill explain  further.
chargeback
Credit card providers like Barclays are part of what is known as a card scheme. These schemes  have 
rules which  allow transactions  to be disputed via whats  known  as a chargeback. Chargebacks can be 
made for a variety of reasons, including cases where  promised goods or services havent been 
received.
A chargeback  is not a consumer right but its something I would expect Barclays to have attempted  on 
behalf of Mr S if there was a fair chance of it succeeding. 
In this case Barclays did attempt a chargeback but it was disputed  by X, which said the £995 had 
been for the photographs it had provided, and it supplied  paperwork signed by Mrs S to show this was 
the case. It said it wasnt responsible for any promises  made by Z, which was a different company.
I have thought  carefully about Barclays decision not to pursue the chargeback  further. When Mr S 
gave Barclays written details of his dispute he made it clear  that it was Z that he was had a dispute 
with. He didnt refer to X at any point.  But the payment went to X, which was able to show it was not 
responsible for obtaining  either  modelling  work for Mr Ss daughter, or providing a refund if not 
enough work  was found. It explained that it was responsible  only for providing the photographs, in a 
detailed submission.  
I have considered the apparent nature of the contracting relationship here, and Xs response to the 
chargeback. After doing so, in the particular circumstances of this complaint I dont think  Barclays was 
unreasonable in not taking the chargeback further. 
Section 75
Section 75 gives consumers some protection where they have paid a company for goods or services 
using their credit card,  and that company  has either misrepresented  something to them  in order to get 
them to make  the payment, or has breached its contract with them. The law says the credit card 
provider can be held responsible in these  situations  if certain criteria are met. 
One of the key criteria which must  be met is often known  as the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. 
In practical terms this means that in order for Section 75 to apply, the person  who has paid using their 
credit card account (the debtor)  needs to have a contract with the company  (the supplier) which they 
say is responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Generally the credit  card payment 
also needs to have gone directly to the supplier for the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement  to be 
intact.
In this case Mr S has used his credit card account to pay X, but I dont think he has a contract  with 
either X or Z. His name doesnt feature on any of the paperwork and he doesnt appear to have taken  
any significant  part in the discussions with the companies. It seems most likely  Mr S was providing  the 
financial means  for his wife and daughter to enter contracts  with X and Z, rather than having  any 
intention to enter  these contracts himself.  Because Mr S doesnt have any contractual  relationship 
with X or Z, my view is that the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement  isnt in place for Section 
75 to apply to the transaction.
Ref: DRN18157834There are potentially  other difficulties for Mr S here because although he has complained about the 
actions of Z, he has in fact paid X. This kind of arrangement also often means  the necessary  debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement isnt in place for Section 75 to apply. But I havent had to look into this 
further because Im of the view Section 75 doesnt apply here for the reasons Ive already  explained.
This means  I think Barclays was fair to decline Mr Ss Section  75 claim.
I have some sympathy for Mr S, as it seems he and his family may have been the victims of a scam. 
But this doesnt  necessarily mean that Barclays must reimburse him. For the reasons Ive explained  
above, I dont think Barclays needs to do anything more in this case. 
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
I now invite  Mr S and Barclays to give me any more evidence or arguments they want  me to consider.  
They need to make  sure these reach me by 23 July 2019. Ill then review the case  again.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1815783