K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car he bought through a Hire Purchase Agreement  with Startline 
Motor Finance Limited (Startline)  isnt fit for purpose. He would like to reject  the car and 
cancel his agreement.
background
Mr S says took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with Startline in August 2017.  He says the 
car broke down due to a faulty turbo.  And as the dealership didnt assist  him he arranged  for 
repairs himself  then forwarded the receipts  to Startline to be reimbursed.  But  he says 
Startline refused do this as it said the dealership was happy  to inspect and repair  the car. Mr 
S queries why, if this were  true, he wouldnt have taken advantage of this.
Startline says that the dealership did offer to inspect  and repair  the car; there has been no 
independent diagnostic report so it cant say if any faults are due to previous repairs by a 
local garage. If so it feels the local garage  should  cover the cost of any work.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He didnt feel it was likely Mr S would have caused the 
damage to the turbo given he had only covered around 2,100 miles in three  and a half 
months. He found  it more  likely than not that a fault was developing at the point of sale.
He didnt feel he could  recommend that Mr S reject  the car and cancel his agreement  as the 
business hadnt had an opportunity to repair the car. He felt Mr S arranged the repairs 
himself as the dealership werent willing to help him. He felt a fair solution was for Startline 
to:-
-Reimburse Mr S the £740  he had paid for the repair  work
-Pay an additional  8% interest on the above  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
-Pay £150 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr S accepted this view but Startline didnt.
It said it had evidenced  the dealership was happy to inspect the car.  But Mr S chose to take 
the car elsewhere  and was aware the warranty only covered £500. It didnt feel it was fair to 
pay the additional cost as it hadnt had a chance  to repair  the car itself.  
It added there was no evidence there was a problem  developing or present with the turbo at 
the point of sale and that used cars could expect to have repairs  at some point. And the 
issue with the turbo  was only brought up three  months into the agreement.  And after other  
repairs were completed.  Finally it noted that the car passed its MOT  in 2018.
It also did not agree with the compensation suggested as the dealer was prepared  to help Mr 
S. It said it requested a copy of the diagnostic to highlight issues were linked to a previous 
repair but Mr S didnt provide this. So Startline didnt feel it had the chance to undertake a 
proper investigation.
Ref: DRN17581102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think that there is any dispute  that Mr S bought a second hand  car, had some smaller 
issues which were resolved (under warranty)  but then needed to replace  the turbo at a cost 
to himself of £740.
It seems  the issues for me to consider are was the problem with the turbo developing  at the 
point of sale, and how the cost of the repair should be covered
In terms of whether  the problem was developing at the point of sale Mr S has given us and 
Startline some diagnostic  information from the garage that carried  out the repair. Startline 
says it cant accept that as the garage isnt VAT registered. And for its due diligence any 
repairs need to be carried out under VAT registered  garages to ensure the garage is acting 
legally. That may be Startlines policy but I think Mr S has shown both by the diagnostic 
evidence and invoice  for work completed  that  there was a problem with the turbo which  
resulted in it being replaced.
I am mindful  that Mr S bought a second  hand car and so might  expect to have to carry out 
repairs at some point. But the turbo was replaced  in December so only around 3 months 
after he got the car and he had only done relatively  low mileage  2,100 miles in three and a 
half months. Whilst its reasonable to expect repairs to be done on a second hand  car a 
consumer should  also reasonably expect  a car to be fit for purpose at the point of sale.
I havent seen  the MOT provided  when Mr S bought the car. But no one seems to be 
disputing that the car passed  this MOT  with no advisories. So at that point there were no 
issues identified with turbot.
I am also mindful that from the customer contact  notes Mr S had an accident  with the car in 
September 2017. I have asked Mr S for more information about this accident. He has given 
us details of the damage and a photograph  of the car showing  damage to the rear 
windscreen, tailgate and brake lights. From what I have seen I dont believe this accident is 
relevant to the problem Mr S had with the turbo. 
Startline says the garage where Mr S bought  his car was willing to help Mr S by inspecting  
and /or repairing his car when he had problems but Mr S chose not to do this but to take his 
car to a third party garage.
Mr S has told us when he had a problem with the illumination on the rev counter in October 
2017 he called the company he was insured by and it arranged for his car to be seen by a 
third party garage.  Similarly  when  Mr S had further  problems  in November and December 
2017 resulting  in the turbo needing to be changed  his insurance company arranged  for his 
car to be seen by a third party. On that basis I dont think its unreasonable  for Mr S to have 
chosen to go along with his insurance  companys arrangements.
Mr S says that the garage  he bought the car from werent helpful so he had no choice but to 
organise his own repairs. Startline says it has evidenced that the garage was willing to help.
I have asked for more  information about this and I appreciate Startline has done its best to 
provide this information. Unfortunately  it seems  there are no call notes or records  of 
Ref: DRN17581103telephone calls for me to consider. Startline has explained that the dealership  changed its 
complaints system in December 2017 so its likely  any information is logged  on the old 
system to which there is no longer any access.   
On the basis of the information available to me I have concluded its likely there  was a fault 
developing or present  at the point  of sale. I say this because I dont believe Mr S had 
covered sufficient mileage  or I that have any other  information to conclude  the damage to 
the turbo was purely as a result of his actions.  
I cant be sure what help the dealership offered but I am inclined to agree  with Mr Ss point 
that it wouldnt make sense for him not to use the dealership where he bought  the car if he 
could have done so. It certainly would have been simpler for him to do that. On that basis I 
dont feel it was unreasonable  for Mr S to get repairs to his car done elsewhere.
I agree  with our adjudicator that I dont think there are grounds to allow Mr S to reject his car 
 I think Mr S has accepted this by accepting our adjudicators view. I do think that it is fair in 
the circumstances for Startline to cover the outstanding costs  of the repair  and some 
compensation for the inconvenience to Mr S.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Startline Motor Finance Limited should:-
 
-Reimburse Mr S the £740  he had paid for the repair  work
-Pay an additional  8% interest on the above  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
-Pay £150 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1758110