K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement  with 
FCA Automotive Services UK Limited,  trading as Fiat Financial Services, wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Miss B under a hire purchase agreement with Fiat Financial 
Services that she signed in March 2019. She had some issues with the car on the day that it 
was supplied to her as the gearbox was overheating and smoke was coming  from under  the 
bonnet. She contacted the manufacturers assistance service  and the car was recovered to 
the dealer. The car was inspected but no fault with it was found. Miss B then complained to 
Fiat Financial Services and said that she wanted  to reject the car. She wasnt  satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He was unable  to 
conclude that the car was of unsatisfactory  quality. He said that there  had been  a fault on the 
car but the evidence suggested that it was caused by driving  style which  had been confirmed 
by diagnostic tests.  So he concluded that Fiat Financial Services  had dealt with Miss Bs 
complaint fairly. 
Miss B has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that she just turned on the engine, pressed the gas pedal and straight away  
burning fumes were  coming out from the back of the car and she doesnt  understand how 
the car can store fault codes just because she pressed on the accelerator  longer  than she 
should have.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that there was an issue with the car soon after it was supplied  to Miss B. She called 
out the manufacturers assistance service and the car was recovered  to the dealer. Miss B 
contacted Fiat Financial  Services and said that she wanted to reject  the car.
The dealer  checked the car and carried out diagnostic testing which found fault codes that 
had been recorded in the cars computer. But it says that those fault codes related to the 
way that the car was being  driven  and were  consistent with the issues that Miss B had 
reported. Its a standard feature of modern cars that fault codes are recorded  about the 
operation of the car.
The dealer  says that Miss B had acknowledged that she had unintentionally kept the car in 
first gear which wouldve caused  those  issues  so it offered to give Miss B an accompanied 
driving handover  so that she could become familiar with the correct  operation  of the car. And 
it inspected the car again later that month  but no fault was found. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that there  was a fault with the car 
when it was supplied  to Miss B. And I dont consider that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality at that time. Ive seen no evidence to show that there have been further faults  with 
Ref: DRN15634672the car and I consider it to be more likely  than not that the issues that Miss B has 
experienced with the car have been  caused  by the way that she was driving it. 
A consumer  has a right under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 to reject  a car within the first 
30 days after its supplied if theres  a fault with the car. Miss B asked to reject  her car within 
the first 30 days after it was supplied to her but, as Im not persuaded that there was a fault 
with the car, I dont  consider that she had a right to reject the car. 
I consider that Fiat Financial Services has responded to Miss Bs complaint correctly.  And I 
find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to allow 
her to reject the car  or to take any other  action  in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1563467