K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about the decision by Phoenix Wealth Services  Limited 
(Phoenix), previously known as AXA Wealth Services Limited (AXA),  to remove a key 
feature from their Family SunTrust - the non-proportionate allocation  of growth facility. They 
say AXA did not provide  them with an adequate  explanation as to why it did this. 
Mr and Mrs B say they have lost out financially as a result  of this being  removed.
Background
The AXA Family SunTrust (FST) allowed individual pensions to be grouped together  and 
investment growth  to be re-allocated between the members  pensions on a non- 
proportionate basis. In the paperwork Ive seen this facility is referred to as the flexibility  
option . To keep  things simple thats how I will refer to it in the rest of this decision.
In May 2013, Mr and Mrs B opened the FST and applied to vary the terms to invoke the 
flexibility option. Mr B has said the flexibility option was the key reason he chose the FST. 
Mr B already  had one pension in payment. This had used up 70% of his existing lifetime  
allowance. The lifetime  allowance was due to reduce  further in the 2014/15 tax year. Mr Bs 
other uncrystallised private  pension was at that time already nearing the new lifetime  
allowance, so he was advised there was a high possibility of him exceeding the new lifetime 
allowance and being liable for a 55% tax charge. So by using the flexibility  option  within  the 
FST he was able to pool his and his wifes pensions assets and allocate the growth  to his 
wife to build  her pension.
In August  2016  AXA sent Mr B a letter explaining that with effect  from 2 September  2016 the 
flexibility option of the FTS was to be withdrawn. It said:
Consequently we [AXA]  periodically review Family SunTrust to ensure that we continue to 
be satisfied that the Flexibility option  remains suitable for clients and in line with the evolving 
regulatory and tax environment. Unfortunately, in our most recent review we concluded that 
it was no longer appropriate for us to continue to offer the flexibility option.
AXA said from 2 September 2016 all allocations  of investment growth would take place on a
proportionate basis. Unhappy with AXAs actions Mr and Mrs B complained to AXA and then 
brought their complaint  to this service. In summary  they said:
They were still trying to understand what change caused  AXA to alter its 
interpretation. They said they were told in February 2017  that AXA was not at liberty 
to provide further information about  this.
They want to know what legislation and tax treatment of the scheme changed, 
leading to the decision to withdraw  the flexibility option.
They cant see why AXA is unable to give any reasons  for the change. The contract 
is between AXA and them and it is not fair for AXA to alter the contract to its 
advantage and Mr and Mrs Bs loss, and claim its reasons  are confidential.
Their adviser, who was proactively allocating growth in the FST from 2014-2016 was 
unaware that the scheme had not been  endorsed by HMRC.
It is not surprising  that AXA says that its reason for the change is not because  of its 
sale to Phoenix because a commercial  deal is not a legitimate reason to allow  it to 
change the contract.
AXA reportedly had the FST confirmed as legitimate by Queens Counsel, after 
discussion with HMRC.  How could Mr and Mrs B have  been  aware  that HMRC 
Ref: DRN12193522wouldve opposed the scheme.  They believed this was a properly constructed policy  
agreed at the outset  by HMRC.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our adjudicators who felt it should be dismissed 
without consideration of the merits. He said that there was always a risk the flexibility option 
could be withdrawn, and the terms and conditions of the scheme  allowed for this. He thought 
although AXA had not provided full details of why it had changed its interpretation, it had 
said this was not because of the sale to Phoenix. He was therefore satisfied AXA was 
entitled to remove  the flexibility option  and had done  so within the terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation  and responded essentially  
reiterating their complaint  points. In addition, Mr and Mrs Bs adviser  made the following 
representations on their behalf:
This product, with this feature, was available from 2008. Mr and Mrs B invested  in it 
five years later, during  which  time AXA had consistently communicated  and 
reassured clients that it was in open  discussions with HMRC to ensure that AXAs 
interpretation of the rules  was deemed complaint. This included  reassurance that 
AXA had taken  advice, including from Queens Counsel who had confirmed the 
validity of the scheme.
AXA had said in an article that we had hoped that, given time, we would  have been  
able to work with HMRC  to agree an undertaking. However, given the upcoming sale 
of the AXA Wealth  business, we are no longer in a position  to take a longer-term 
view. This supports Mr and Mrs Bs view that the only thing that changed  was AXA 
selling its book  of business to Phoenix.  In removing  the option, it was putting its own 
interests before its clients.
AXA also responded to the adjudicators  view and said:
Its decision to withdraw the flexibility option  was the result of a change in 
interpretation that took place prior to the sale rather than a decision that was in 
consequence of the sale.
That change in interpretation gave right to an entitlement  under the terms of the 
policy to withdraw the flexibility option.
Having made the decision  to withdraw  the flexibility  option in July 2016 the Scheme 
Administrator was required  to give 30 days notice before the withdrawal became 
effective. Given it was writing  to all scheme  members about withdrawing the option it 
decided it made  sense to close  the FST to new business from the same  date in 
preparation for the sale later in the year.
Whilst the closure of the product was related to the sale,  the withdrawal of the option  
was not. These decisions were  reached  independently.
It does not agree  that the FST was a controversial  product or that it was inevitable  
that HMRC would oppose it. It was aimed at more sophisticated investors and not 
one to be taken  out without financial advice.
I issued my provisional findings in August 2020 where I set out why I felt this complaint 
couldnt be upheld.  An extract  is below  and forms part of this final decision:
The terms and conditions  of the FST state:
[AXA] has the right to decide  that the provisions set out in the Operative provisions in part 3 
of the document [i.e. the provision of the flexibility option] will cease to apply [AXA] can 
Ref: DRN12193523exercise this right only if there are changes in, or [our] interpretation changes  of, applicable 
pensions, tax or other law, legislation, regulation or industry codes of practic e. [AXA]  can 
exercise this right upon giving.30 days written notice so far as practicable to do so.
So, I am satisfied that AXA had the ability to remove the flexibility  option if it met the criteria 
in the terms and conditions. I have next considered whether AXA did indeed meet the criteria  
mentioned above.  In particular, did it change its interpretation of the applicable pension laws 
and regulation. To do this I have looked  at the history of AXAs involvement and dealings  
with the FST.
AXA has provided me with information concerning the development of the FST as well as 
the communications that took place between AXA and HMRC regarding  the flexibility  option. 
I have seen:
The template  letters  from the AXA FST manager  to advisers where  the scheme was 
applied for /or had been taken out. These are dated 2015 and 2016.
The timeline of the development  of the FST scheme, provided by AXA.
Letters between HMRC and the FST team at AXA from May 2015 to July 2015 
discussing the scheme and more specifically  the flexibility  option.
The confidential reports to AXA from legal  counsel regarding the flexibility option.
From this information I can see that:
AXA started to look into the feasibility of launching the product in late 2006. In light of 
HMRC legislation  and after legal advice it launched the FST on a limited basis  in 
March 2008 and launched it fully in February 2009.
Its documented in the timeline provided by AXA that at this point in time HMRCs  
view was that the flexibility option was within the rules, but it was noted that HMRC 
provided no guarantees that position  wouldnt  change in the future.
For the next few years, until 2015 the information indicates AXA kept reviewing the 
scheme and despite some changes to pension regulation over these years  AXA 
remained satisfied that HMRC  was content with the scheme and that its flexibility  
option was within  the relevant rules. This included further legal opinion in 2013  
indicating that the environmental  risk in the area of pensions had increased but that 
the underlying  legislation had not changed. In light of this AXA decided  to continue  
operation of the FST unchanged.
However, in May 2015 HMRC asked for further details from AXA about how the 
pooled growth  in the scheme was allocated  to its members. This appears to have 
been prompted by an increase in pension liberation scams (a type of fraud). AXAs  
response tried to reassure HMRC  about the flexibility option, but HMRC advised that 
it had concerns over the model  being used to allocate growth  and it felt that this could  
be contrary to sections  172 (Assignment of benefits) and/or 172A (Surrender of 
benefits) of the Finance  Act 2004.
Because of these  concerns, HMRC  stopped registering new schemes.
There was a further meeting between AXA and HMRC in September  2015.
HMRC resumed registration of the FST in October 2015. In the same  month  AXA 
issued communications  to advisers  that registration of the FST had resumed but its 
discussions with HMRC  were ongoing  and all features  of the product couldnt be 
guaranteed to remain into the future. Advisers were invited to withdraw  applications 
from new clients.
Again  in the same month AXA obtained  further  legal opinion  in response to specific 
Ref: DRN12193524points HMRC raised at meetings between itself and AXA in September  2015.
This led to AXA writing to HMRC  in October 2015 asking it to withdraw  their 
objections in light of its most recent legal opinion.
There then followed much discussion between  AXA and HMRC.  And AXA again 
sought legal  advice during this period.
In January 2016 AXA issued second  communications to advisers informing them  that 
HMRC continued to investigate elements of the FST and that registration of the new 
schemes was at their own risk.
However, because  of the continued HMRC investigations AXA closed the FST to 
new business in May 2016.
In June 2016 HMRC  advised AXA its investigations were continuing.
In July 2016 AXA obtained  further legal opinion. The finding of this was that the risk 
environment within the area of pension had changed and more notably that HMRC 
continued to investigate the FST position  even  after submission in October 2015 of 
legal opinion  and evidence that supported the flexibility option of the FST.
Later that month the Board  of AXA made  the decision that it was no longer 
appropriate to continue with the interpretation  that disproportionate  allocation  of 
growth was appropriate within the pension framework as it was at that time.
Taking account of this information, Im satisfied  AXA had been carefully considering the 
nature of the flexibility option for some time. It also appears to have engaged quite heavily 
with HMRC over the years to ensure it was being  compliant with HMRCs thinking and 
relevant regulation as well as seeking legal opinion  when it felt prudent.  I therefore dont
think this decision was made quickly without careful consideration. Im satisfied it followed a 
genuine change  in AXAs  interpretation of applicable  pensions, tax or other law, legislation, 
regulation or industry codes of practice.  And while I appreciate this happened  around the 
same time as the sale to Phoenix  was progressing, I think this was mere coincidence rather 
than central to the decision  to withdraw the feature.
I also note that AXA gave notice on 2 August 2016,  which was just over 30 days  before the 
option was officially  withdrawn (on 2 September 2016), as required by the terms and 
conditions. I therefore  dont think AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably  when it withdrew the 
flexibility option and it acted in accordance with its terms and conditions when it did so.
I am satisfied that previous legal opinion  obtained by AXA over the years was positive  in 
relation to the flexibility option of the FST. So, I think it was reasonable  for AXA to have  
advised its customers into 2016  that the scheme  continued  to comply with HMRC  pension  
rules. This reassurance came with the previous warnings that this feature couldnt  be 
guaranteed to always remain in place. And that it was only when confirmation  was received 
in June 2016 that HMRC continued with its investigations that led to the further legal opinion 
in July 2016 and then the subsequent withdrawal of the feature.
I know Mr and Mrs B want to know what changed  in AXAs interpretation, but I dont need 
those specifics to make  my decision. I have seen the privileged legal advice reports and I am 
satisfied that it was on this basis, as mentioned above,  that AXA took the decision to 
withdraw the option.
I know Mr B says he wasnt  made  aware that HMRC  wasnt in agreement with the FST. But 
from all I have seem it seems to me that this was because HMRCs concerns over the 
flexibility option only came  in 2015  at which point Mr Bs adviser would  have been  notified by 
AXA about the delays in HMRC registering new schemes. Until this point HMRC had 
remained in contact with AXA about  the flexibility  option and had discussed it at length.  But it 
Ref: DRN12193525hadnt at any point said it wasnt in agreement with it. So, its not unreasonable  that AXA 
continued to reassure its clients about the option. Its also not unreasonable that HMRCs 
concerns about  the option grew  against the everchanging backdrop of pension  rules and 
regulations which is fluid and being tightened  up all the time due to various scams/problems 
within the area of pensions. AXA had the foresight to allow the option to be changed or 
withdrawn because of this and ultimately,  while disappointing for all clients of the option,  this 
happened to be the case in 2016 after the legal advice report acknowledged the option 
should be withdrawn.
While I appreciate what the article says its not unreasonable that AXA made the decision to 
withdraw the option as it couldnt  speak  for the new business, Phoenix.  And it would have 
been wrong to continue  to offer something that its legal  advisers had accepted was 
controversial without getting Phoenixs  agreement.
Overall therefore, while  I appreciate M and Mrs Bs disappointment at the withdrawal of the 
flexibility option, I am satisfied that the terms of the scheme had always  warned that the 
option could be withdrawn if certain criteria  was met. And in my view, taking account of all 
the information I have seen, I am satisfied AXA met this criteria. Ultimately  this was a 
business decision carried out in accordance with the term and conditions and because of 
this AXA isnt obligated to communicate  detailed reasons why and details of what  changed in 
its interpretation especially as some of this information would  reasonably be commercially 
sensitive.
AXA confirmed receipt of the provisional  decision but provided  no further comments or 
information.
Mr and Mrs B provided the following comments:
Why didnt HMRC  have concerns about the flexibility option of the FST earlier, given 
the Finance Act was in force from 2004.
If HMRC was concerned about potential misuse of the policy  why didnt AXA provide 
tighter controls to ensure the flexibility option  couldnt be used in this way.
To the point in the provisional decision that refers to the terms and conditions  of the 
flexibility option allowing AXA to withdraw  it in certain circumstances,  Mr B said his 
recollection was that this point  was conveyed in his document  as the interpretation 
might change  given  a change in pension  rules - not that the interpretation  of the 
present FST rules  might change. While  there was no change in specific tax and 
pension rules only the interpretation, Mr B wanted the marketing  information  given to 
clients to be looked at to see if the phrasing on interpretation matches the terms and 
conditions accurately.
They agreed that from the provisional  decision AXA seemed to have  acted fair and 
reasonably. But if it only focused on the actions and behaviors of one party rather 
than both that doesnt feel fair. They questioned why no consideration has been 
made for the fact they had done everything AXA had required of them  in applying for 
and using the FST and why this didnt seem  to have  any impact on what happened  
with the flexibility  option.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And while I have taken account of 
Mr and Mrs Bs comments, I am not persuaded to change my initial  outcome.
Ref: DRN12193526I appreciate their concerns over HMRCs involvement and why these werent raised earlier.  
But I cant speak for HMRC  the focus of my decision is only on AXA and examining  the 
actions it took in relation to the flexibility option of the FST. I suspect however that the 
reason may have  been because the world of pensions has evolved greatly over the years  - 
new regulations  have been  put in place and existing regulations amended.  At the same  time 
small groups have found ways of bending  some regulations to suit their, sometimes 
nefarious, aims. However,  as I have said this is only my view and I havent, and in fact, cant 
question HMRC over its decisions and practices.
As to why AXA didnt  provide tighter controls around the FST  it isnt for me or this Service  
to direct AXA to have taken this course  of action  in this specific situation. All I can do is look 
at the actions taken  by AXA and assess whether  they were reasonable in the given 
circumstances and whether they were in line with the terms and conditions of the contract 
both parties were party to.
I have looked  at the marketing material that has been made available  to me and I cant see 
anything that states  AXAs right to withdraw the flexibility option would only come into play if 
there were changes in pension rules. Everything I have seen states  the right to withdraw  will 
come into effect if there are changes in, or AXAs interpretation changes of, applicable 
pensions, tax or other law, legislation, regulation or industry codes of practice, as mentioned 
above. I think this is a clear term and goes hand in hand  with the information AXA provided  
through ad hoc means to advisers  of FST clients. I therefore think  its unlikely that the terms 
and conditions would have been  altered over the years.
I agree  that Mr and Mrs B did everything they had to in taking out the FST, utilising the 
flexibility option and in maintaining it for the years they did. This isnt in question. However,  
this doesnt impact AXAs actions. Ultimately  the contractual obligations that both parties 
accepted stated the option could be withdrawn if certain  circumstances were  met, and from 
everything I have seen I think AXA met those obligations. It acted in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the contract guiding it. While its unfortunate the option  had to be 
withdrawn, as illustrated in the provisional findings I think this was not a quick decision made 
by AXA and I am satisfied  the decision was made after appropriate legal consultation and 
after AXA did all it could  to persuade HMRC its concerns were not necessary. So, in not 
upholding this complaint I am not commenting  on whether Mr and Mrs B acted fair and 
reasonably, I am assessing whether AXA acted fair and reasonably  in doing what  it did. The 
fact Mr and Mrs B also acted in the same way doesnt negate the fact that AXA acted in 
accordance with its terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 October  2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1219352