K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mr B holds with Bank of Scotland plc. 
Hes been in financial difficulties for some  time,  and the mortgage is in arrears. Mr B isnt 
happy with Halifaxs  administration  of his mortgage  account; he believes its treated him 
unfairly and failed to provide him with information that he believes hes entitled to have.
background
This is one of two linked complaints Mr B has made  to us about his mortgage. They arent 
identical, hence why weve handled them  separately, but they do arise  from a common  set of 
circumstances. Ive reviewed both complaints, and issued individual  decisions on each, but 
the connection between them inevitably means that the decision shares  common  narratives 
in places.
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are detailed. Ive read everything, 
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplication and repetition of arguments.  In what follows, I 
have, by necessity,  summarised events  in rather less detail than has been  presented.  
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr B when my decision is 
published. 
Our investigator condensed Mr Bs complaint under three broad headings. These were:
Halifax had introduced sub accounts to administer the mortgage;
Halifax hasnt provided  a copy of the mortgage terms and conditions; and
Halifax hasnt given  him any information  on its arrears and possessions policy.
She didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld on any of the above.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ill make  some general observations 
before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Im aware Mr B has complained about  how weve  dealt with his complaint up to now. 
The investigators manager has dealt with that separately. Weve explained how Mr B can 
progress his complaint  about our service if he wishes to. I wont be considering  that; my 
focus is solely on the subject-matter of the underlying complaint against  Halifax.
Lenders generally do put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they 
dont have to and we cant force them to. For the Financial Ombudsman Service  to have that 
Ref: DRN14388222power would  seriously undermine  our impartiality between the parties  to a complaint. 
It would also create  the potential risk of consumers abusing our service by making  
complaints with the intention to obstruct  businesses that were trying to take legitimate action 
to recover money owed to them. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, and we 
dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone  else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also my judgement  to make 
on when we have  everything we need  to reach a fair conclusion.  This might seem a complex  
affair on first glance;  actually, I think its a simpler complaint than its been made to look. 
Mr B has said the investigator didnt  address  every  individual  point  of complaint hes raised. 
What she did was identify  the key issues that she considered formed the crux of the 
complaint; the issues that, in her view,  were material to the outcome of the dispute.  She was 
right to do that, and in what  follows, Ive adopted  the same broad  approach  and used the 
same headings  to summarise my findings. 
Halifax had introduced sub accounts to administer the mortgage;
This originates from a decision by Halifax in 2013  to make changes to the way it 
administered borrowers mortgage accounts.  This change involved the creation of 
sub accounts within the main mortgage  account,  with the intention,  as I understand it, of 
allowing the business to identify and manage  different elements  of the mortgage balance. 
The new process  was largely internal, and borrowers were been informed of the change  
through a mailing exercise.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service doesnt  provide an account checking  service and it is not 
our role to make consumers  complaints for them. If Mr B thinks  hes suffered financially from 
the change in Halifaxs administration of his mortgage account,  it would be for him to arrange 
for the account  to be independently  audited and the evidence of the audit used as the basis 
for a new complaint. Mr B would have  to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors to Mr Bs 
detriment were found, we would  then expect Halifax to reimburse the cost of the audit as 
well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary.
But as things stand,  the evidence available to me to consider doesnt  give me any reason to 
find that Mr B suffered a material financial loss flowing from the change to sub accounts  in 
2013.
Halifax hasnt provided a copy of the mortgage terms and conditions
A mortgage is, by its very nature, a long-term contract. Typically, a mortgage agreement is 
made up three main  components; 
the mortgage offer that sets out the specific  terms unique to that individual  agreement;  
i.e., the name of the borrower(s),  the amount borrowed, the repayment period, the initial 
interest rate, and details of the property that will form security for the debt;
Ref: DRN14388223the general conditions applying to all mortgages  from that lender; these tend to vary from 
time to time during  the life of the contract  to reflect economic  and regulatory changes; 
and
the formal mortgage  deed  (or legal charge) giving the lender security  over the borrowers  
home which it can rely on in the event of a default.
In the normal  course of events, copies of all of the above are given to the borrower  at the 
start of the contract - in Mr Bs case that was in the mid-1990s. In the event of an 
amendment to the general  conditions, the lender will usually send a copy  of the new version 
to all its borrowers in a mailing  exercise.  
Ive no reason to believe  these  things havent  happened in Mr Bs case; indeed, Id be very 
surprised if his conveyancing solicitor in the original transaction had allowed him to complete 
on the transaction without ensuring hed received  all the relevant documentation. 
Halifax hasnt given  him any information  on its arrears and possessions policy.
I wouldnt expect any lender to provide a borrower with a copy  of its arrears and possession 
policy document. Thats a highly confidential  and commercially-sensitive  document. We 
might in certain circumstances ask a lender to give us sight  of its policy (or relevant extracts 
from it) but that evidence  would be received and considered by us in confidence. Our rules 
allow us to do that, and its not one-sided. Either party to a complaint can send us evidence  
and ask us to treat it as confidential.  
What Halifax does  do (and I dont believe its alone in doing that) is publish on its website a 
guide for borrowers in financial difficulties. Thats something a lender chooses to do as part 
of the general  duty imposed on it by the regulator to treat consumer fairly. The content of any 
such guide isnt something for me to comment on here; I have no regulatory power.
More generally, Ive considered Halifax treatment of Mr B whilst hes been in arrears.  Being 
in financial hardship  and behind on mortgage  payments is a stressful  situation, and lenders 
do have to treat borrowers who are in trouble  fairly. But they also have right to take 
reasonable steps to recover money  owed  to them, including  if need be, taking  court action to 
enforce their security. Thats what Halifax is seeking to do in Mr Bs case, and whilst  Ive no 
doubt its unwelcome to him, I cant say its unfair or that the Financial Ombudsman Service  
should seek to interfere with or otherwise hinder  any court action Halifax might  take.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from his submissions the determination with which  Mr B has brought 
the complaint.  Thats  a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mr B has been here, its a 
natural subjective  reaction to see things  in the way Mr B has done.
Be that as it may, I have  to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively,  sometimes  taking a step back and focussing on the broader picture. 
Thats what  Ive done. Having done so, I cant find in Mr Bs favour, however much  he thinks  
I should. His situation is an unenviable one, but I cant honestly say his situation has been 
Ref: DRN14388224made worse by what Halifax has done (or not done). Its an unavoidable consequence of 
long-term arrears from which Mr B seems  unable to recover. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1438822