K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt pay him the £100 due to him under 
its recommend a friend offer. 
Mrs Bs complaint has been  dealt with separately.  
background
In May 2018, Mr B recommended that Mrs B open an account with Nationwide and Mrs B 
subsequently switched her account.  In September 2018, Mr B complained to Nationwide  that 
he hadnt received  the incentive payment of £100.  Nationwide said that some  of the 
essential steps necessary to qualify for the incentive  payment hadnt been completed, so it 
hadnt made the payment.   
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Nationwide had treated Mr B unfairly. She said shed looked 
at information  about the offer from Nationwides website. There  were three steps before 
Nationwide paid the £100. 
The adjudicator said that Mr B carried out the first step of giving Nationwide details and 
sharing an e-mail with Mrs B and Mrs B had switched her account. But Mrs B hadnt  
subsequently followed the link in the shared  e-mail and given certain details to Nationwide,  
which would have led to it making the payment. And the time limit for doing  so had now 
expired. The adjudicator  thought that Nationwide had decided correctly  not to pay Mr B the 
£100, as it hadnt made  an error.
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said that Nationwide hadnt considered  his and 
Mrs Bs emotional and mental  state  following bereavement. Mr B said that Nationwide has 
benefitted from Mrs Bs business and that wasnt fair. 
The adjudicator said that she appreciated Mr B was experiencing a difficult time and thats 
why shed asked  Nationwide  to consider making the payment to Mr B, as a gesture  of 
goodwill. It declined to do so. The adjudicator  said that she couldnt recommend that 
Nationwide make the payment in this case. She said that the onus was on the consumer to 
ensure completion  of the qualifying steps.  The adjudicator said that as Nationwide hadnt 
made an error, she couldnt recommend  payment. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator for substantially the same reasons. 
The terms of the offer were clear and not misleading. There were  three  qualifying  steps  
before Nationwide made the payment and only two were completed here. So, Nationwide 
wasnt obliged to make  the payment. 
Ref: DRN18942242I appreciate that Mr B says that he and Mrs B had suffered  a bereavement that prevented 
them dealing with the matter as their minds were elsewhere. But the three steps had to be 
completed within 90 days, which I think was a reasonable time, even in the circumstances 
that arose here.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B but I dont think that Nationwide made an error here and I dont 
think it acted unfairly  in relying on the terms of the offer in order  to decline payment. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1894224