K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Santander  UK plc allowed her son to transfer money from an account 
without her agreement.  Ms S brings  her complaint as one of the trustees on the account.
background
Ms Ss son, who I will refer to as Mr H is beneficiary of an account  set up in his name, but 
with Ms S and another individual as trustees. All transactions need to be authorised by either 
one of the trustees. In February and March  this year, Mr H transferred £4,967.39 into 
another account in his name. Santander failed to get either trustee  to authorise the two 
transactions. On the day Mr H made  the second  transfer, he also credited the account with 
£967.39. So the net transfer out of the account  was £2,000.
Ms S asked Santander  credit the account with the £2,000. 
Santander apologised that it had wrongly allowed the transfer. But it said the money had 
been transferred  to an account held in the name of the ultimate beneficiary, so it wouldnt 
replace the funds. It offered  Ms S £200 for its error  and the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt  think there was any obligation on Santander  to replace the money  that 
had been withdrawn. But he thought £500 more fairly reflected the banks  failings.
Santander said it was willing  to pay Ms S £300.
my provisional decision
I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I concluded that:
Ms S is one of the trustees  on the account. Either trustee is authorised to transact on the 
account  it doesnt require joint signatories.  So although only one of the trustees has 
brought this complaint, it is one that we can look at.
Mr H shouldnt have been able to transact on the account without the authority of one of the 
trustees. Santander  has apologised that Mr H was able to transfer a net amount of £2,000 
out of the account.
Santander is willing to pay the money  back to the trustee account  but it retains the right to 
pursue Mr H for the debt thats been  created. I find this would be a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
But Ms S has told us she doesnt  want Mr H to be pursued for the debt. She is concerned 
this may result  in legal action against  him and may affect his credit record. This being the 
case, Ms S may wish to re-consider Santanders offer to her of £300. Should she wish to 
accept this, she should contact Santander  direct.
I gave both parties a further opportunity to provide any additional information in response to 
my provisional decision. Neither party provided any additional information or argument.
Ref: DRN12918952my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Ms S nor Santander has provided  any fresh information or evidence in response to 
my provisional decision. I therefore find no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1291895