K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about how U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) dealt with a claim under his travel  
insurance policy.
background
Mr H holds a travel insurance policy as a benefit of his bank account. The travel  insurance 
policy is provided by UKI.
While on holiday  Mr H lost his glasses and the lens shade of his camera.  He made a claim 
with UKI for the cost of replacing the glasses and repairing the camera  lens. Mr H said it 
would cost £335 to replace his glasses and £142.71 to repair the camera lens.  
UKI incorrectly logged  the incident as two claims. It deducted courier  costs  of £24 from the 
quote of £142.71 which Mr H had provided  for the repair of the camera lens. UKI then 
deducted a policy excess of £50 and sent Mr H a payment of £68.71.
When Mr H called UKI for an update, it realised the incident should  have been recorded as 
one claim.  It then paid Mr H £205  for his glasses,  which was the original amount Mr H had 
paid for them.  So, in total, UKI paid Mr H £273.71.
Mr H complained to UKI. He said the claim had taken over a month to deal with, the details were 
incorrectly recorded as two claims and the settlement he was paid was incorrect  and unfair.  
UKI send  Mr H a final response letter with £50 compensation because it had initially raised 
two claims in error. However,  it said the settlement amount had been calculated  correctly and 
it wouldnt be paying Mr H for the courier costs associated  with the repair  of the camera lens. 
Unhappy, Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked  into what 
happened, but he didnt  think UKI needed to pay Mr H anything more. Mr H didnt agree with 
our investigators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me.
I made  my provisional decision about Mr Hs complaint earlier  this month.  In it, I said:
Mr H has made several general comments about  how financial businesses handle
complaints and about the powers  of this service,  but I wont be addressing these points other
than to say our remit doesnt extend  to directing financial businesses to make changes to
their internal  processes. My role is to look at the specific circumstances of Mr Hs individual
complaint to decide whether I think UKI has settled his claim as it should have done.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Hs policy with UKI define an excess  as:
the amount we will deduct from a claim. This amount is payable per insured
person claiming, per claim registered.
UKI originally recorded the loss of the glasses and camera lens shade  as two claims,  which
would mean  two excesses would apply.  As both items were lost during the same  incident, I
dont think this was a fair or reasonable position for UKI to take.
Ref: DRN13869922Im pleased to see UKI has now accepted its original position was incorrect. I understand 
UKI may not have realised there was error if Mr H hadnt pointed this out, but Ive seen  no 
evidence to suggest this was anything  other  than a genuine mistake on the part of UKI. UKI
has paid Mr H £50 compensation in recognition of the error and Mr H has accepted this but,
for the avoidance  of doubt,  I think this was a fair and reasonable offer from UKI.
Turning to how UKI has applied the excess to the settlement paid to Mr H, Section L of his
policy says:
We will provide cover for up to a maximum of £1,500, per insured person  for
personal possessions that are lost, damaged or stolen whilst on your journey
The single  article limit is £300.
The policy goes on to say:
When we settle a claim under this section of the policy, we will at our option either:
a) pay the cost of replacing the item;
b) make a cash payment to you;
c) pay the cost of repairing the item.
We will deduct an excess of £50
No payment will be more  than the original purchase price you paid for the item
Ive considered all the arguments Mr H has made about the excess, as well as his examples
of different  ways in which the excess could have  been applied. However, I dont think UKI
has applied  the excess incorrectly  or in an unreasonable  way. I also dont think the wording
of Mr Hs policy is ambiguous, contradictory,  unclear or unfair .
I understand Mr H wanted to claim for the cost of replacing his glasses, which was £335.
Mr Hs policy  says UKI will pay for the cost of replacing the lost item, but this isnt on a new for 
old basis and Section L is caveated to state that cover doesnt extend  beyond the original 
purchase price. Like most, if not all travel insurance  policies  on the market, Mr Hs policy  
indemnifies him for his financial loss, and this is the cost he incurred in buying the original  item.
I understand Mr H may not be able to buy replacement glasses for the same price  as the
originals. But Mr Hs financial loss here is £205,  and not £335. So, £205 is the value of
Mr Hs glasses claim under the policy he holds and UKI isnt obliged to pay Mr H anything
over this amount.  It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask UKI to cover the higher cost of
replacing the glasses,  as this would put Mr H in a better financial position  than he was in
before the incident and this isnt what his policy is designed to do.
When calculating a settlement, wed generally expect an insurer  to apply the policy excess  to
the claim value first, before applying any relevant policy limit. The policy limits under Section 
L of Mr Hs policy are set out as £1,500  in total and £300 per single article. The original
purchase price of the item isnt a policy limit imposed by UKI to restrict its exposure to risk,
its the maximum extent of the policyholders  financial  loss and therefore the maximum
amount which  the value  of the claim can be.
Ref: DRN13869923The policy excess is the amount which a consumer  must contribute towards making  a claim. 
Mr H bears  the cost of the excess,  which is the first £50 of every claim, himself. If only one 
item is claimed for under  the policy, then an excess will be applied to the original purchase
price of that item so UKI may never actually pay for the full original purchase cost. But the
policy doesnt say UKI will pay the full original  purchase cost for each item, it says no
payment will be more  than the original  purchase  price and this is subject to the excess  which
the policyholder  must pay, and which is set out in the same section of the policy.
UKI is entitled to deduct £50 from the value of Mr Hs claim thats  covered under the terms
and conditions of his policy. The value of Mr Hs claim is £205 for the original cost of his
glasses, together  with the cost of repairing the camera lens.
I understand Mr H may have been told during a call with UKI that his glasses claim had been
reduced to £205  and then an excess was deducted from this amount. But UKI hasnt
deducted any excess from the value of Mr Hs claim for the original cost of the lost glasses,
nor has it made any sort of double deduction on this item. Based on the information Ive
seen from UKI, the £50 excess was taken off the cost of repairing the camera lens and Mr H
was paid the full original  purchase price of his glasses in line with what  his policy  provides
cover for. Regardless of whether UKI deducted the excess from the original purchase price
of the glasses, the cost of repairing the camera  lens or the total combined claim, Mr H is
responsible for the first £50 of the claim amount himself.
Overall, I dont  think UKI has made any error  in the way in which  it applied  the £50 excess to
Mr Hs claim.
However, I dont think UKI has acted  fairly  or reasonably by refusing to reimburse Mr H for
the courier costs  associated with having  his camera lens repaired.
Mr H has provided a quote for the repair of the camera lens which  includes a £24 fee for a
courier collection service. The quote  gives the option for Mr H to bring the item to the 
repairer in person but, given the distance of the repairer from Mr Hs home address, I think it
would have been unrealistic to expect  Mr H to have transported the lens there and back
himself. I agree  with Mr H that the repair quote  is of little benefit  to him if he cant get the
camera lens to and from the repairer.
The quote  Mr H has provided isnt from a manufacturer-approved repairer. Mr H has quite
rightly pointed out he could have insisted  on using a manufacturer-approved  repairer, but
there are only four such outlets in the UK and none in his locality.  Mr H has said in his
experience of having repairs carried out in the past, manufacturer-approved repairers  are
more expensive.
Mr H told us he searched for repairers in his own area first but the only one he could find
wouldnt repair the lens themselves and would  send it to one of the manufacturer-approved
repairers anyway. Mr H says if he had taken the lens to this local repairer, the cost of
shipping and a further profit margin would have been included within the price.
Mr H has sent us evidence supporting  some  of what he has said, which Ive arranged to
send to UKI under separate cover. Overall, Im persuaded  by Mr Hs evidence that he
attempted to reduce the extent of UKIs liability by choosing the least  expensive repair option
available to him. I think its likely that having  the camera lens repaired by a manufacturer-
approved repairer  or arranging the repair locally would  have cost UKI more than the total
quote of £142.71 which Mr H provided.
Ref: DRN13869924It may well be the case that UKI couldve arranged for the camera lens to be repaired itself at
a cheaper cost, but I havent seen any evidence that UKI explored this as an alternative at
the time or offered this option to Mr H.
In the circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to consider the cost of
transporting the camera lens to and from the repairer as forming part of Mr Hs claim.
So my provisional decision was that I intended  to uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and 
recommend that UKI should  reimburse Mr H for the money he paid to send his camera  lens 
for repair, together with interest.
Mr H didnt accept my findings about  the way in which UKI had applied the policy excess.  
Mr H agreed with my conclusions about  the cost of shipping  the camera lens, but UKI didnt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account all of the points  Mr H has raised in response  to my provisional 
decision, but Ive already addressed most of these arguments. For the purposes  of clarity, 
Ive summarised my key findings here; 
while wed generally expect an insurer to apply the policy  excess to the claim value 
before applying any relevant policy limit, the original purchase price  of the item isnt a 
policy limit - its the maximum value which a claim can be;
the value of Mr Hs glasses claim is £205, and not £335;
I understand  UKI told Mr H that it deducted the excess from the original purchase price  
of his glasses.  This was incorrect;
UKI paid Mr H for the full original purchase  price of his glasses  (£205). The payment of 
£68.71 was calculated by deducing the excess of £50 and the courier costs  of £24 from 
the quote of £142.17  to repair the camera lens. 
Leaving aside the £24 which Ive addressed below, Im satisfied these calculations are 
correct. The cost of replacing Mr Hs glasses (£335) isnt relevant for the purposes of this 
claim and doesnt  form part of the settlement calculations. 
It may have been helpful if UKI had been clearer from the outset in explaining to Mr H how it 
calculated the payments  it sent to him. But I dont think UKI has made a mistake  in how it 
applied the excess  to Mr Hs claim,  so I wont be asking it to pay any further  compensation. 
Turning to the additional comments  UKI has made about the courier costs  incurred  by Mr H, 
I understand Mr H chose the option  of a courier collection service at a cost of £24 rather  than 
a special delivery tracking service at a cost of £8.45.  Given  the nature of the item, I can 
understand why Mr H opted for the courier collection service. 
 
Ref: DRN13869925While I appreciate the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy  may not extend to transport 
costs for repairing items, I think it would  be fair and reasonable  for UKI to cover  these in the 
circumstances. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Mr H chose the cheapest  
option open to him even when taking into account  the £24 courier costs. If Mr H had insisted  
on having the camera lens repaired by a manufacturer-approved repairer (as I think  he 
would have been entitled to do) or if hed arranged the repair locally,  I think its likely this 
would have cost UKI more than £142.71.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. 
U K Insurance Limited must reimburse Mr H for the money  he paid to send his camera lens 
for repair, together with interest at 8% simple  per year on this amount from the date Mr H 
paid for it until the date of settlement1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
1 If U K Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much it has taken  off. It should also give Mr H a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN1386992