K820x#14complaint
Mr W believes Prudential  Assurance Company Limited has increased  its charges on his 
pension fund beyond  what hed agreed  to. 
background
Mr W wanted to transfer his pension savings held with Prudential from a cash fund into an 
investment fund, for the potential  of better  growth. So in 2017, through one of Prudentials 
own advisors, he transferred his funds into its Prufund 0-30 Fund  Series  E. At the time he 
took out the investment  he was given a key facts  illustration about the product including the 
annual charges hed pay. These were  shown as a product administration  charge of 0.35%, 
and an investment charge of 0.65% (so one per cent in total). Mr W says the charges were  a 
significant factor in his decision making.  The same  charges are reflected on his annual 
benefit statement  which also states additional  investment expenses 0.00%.
In October  2018 Mr W noticed on his annual benefits statement an additional investment 
expense of 0.10% which  hadnt been there before. He queried this with Prudential which told 
him the charge was incorporated in the unit price,  but Prudential had taken the decision to 
include this information  on statements  to be transparent with customers. But he wasnt  
actually being  charged more than before.
Mr W wasnt happy as he hadnt been  told about this additional  charge and wanted 
Prudential to reduce  his charges to the one per cent hed agreed to. Prudential upheld  his 
complaint that the charge  hadnt been clearly set out in the illustration, which  it will be going 
forward. It said the charge  is included within  the retirement fund terms and conditions, but 
agreed the explanation  was unclear. They awarded  Mr W £350 as an apology to cover this 
issue, together with some  other complaint points not relevant to this decision. But it didnt 
agree to a refund, as he hadnt actually been charged extra. So Mr W brought his complaint 
to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  and asked Prudential to provide copies of 
the charges information Mr W would  have been  given at the outset. Prudential  was unable to 
provide the actual document, but provided a more up to date version  which still showed the 
annual charge as one per cent. So he could see why Mr W was confused. But the 
investigator accepted  Prudentials  explanation that the 0.10% charge had always  been  
incorporated into the unit price, and wasnt an additional charge. And Mr W had been  given 
access to information  about the charging  structure on Prudentials website. So he didnt ask 
them to do anything more.  
Mr W still feels Prudential  has increased his charges without his authority. Particularly  as 
since the complaint  has been with this service,  hes received notification that the charge has 
gone up from 0.10% to 0.11%. As agreement couldnt be reached its come to me to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
Ref: DRN17972842I appreciate Mr Ws concerns about the charges hes paying on his pension, and why he 
thinks Prudential appears to be increasing  them above what had been  agreed.  But Im 
satisfied the 0.10% wasnt an additional  charge. His fund was always absorbing this expense  
but without him realising,  as it was incorporated into the unit price of his fund. Prudential 
wanted to make its charges more transparent for its customers  by showing them separately 
on statements from January 2018. This is in line with what  the regulator is expecting 
businesses to do. In the past the requirement  to separate out all the potential charges and 
expenses a fund might have to pay to third parties when buying and selling investments was 
not as stringent. I can see why Mr W feels the information provided  was previously a bit 
misleading when  it stated additional  charges 0.0%,  but this reflects  that at that time, 
Prudential didnt have  a way of separately  identifying the additional  dealing  costs within the 
fund that subsequently  amounted to about 0.10%. It also wasnt an additional  charge, it 
was just a charge Mr W wasnt previously aware  he was paying.
Mr W may have thought his agreement  meant  he would never pay more than 1% in charges. 
But Prudential has shown me an extract from the point of sale document  headed  
Investment  Charges. It explains the investment  charge is the cost of managing [your]  
investments and gives the yearly charge as 0.65%. But underneath  it reads  Yearly charges 
may be different  between  funds and may vary throughout the lifetime of your Prudential 
Retirement Account. 
I cant be sure the Prudential advisor drew this to Mr Ws attention.  But the warning the 
charges can vary is right underneath the yearly charge figure  of 0.65%. As charges were a 
key factor  in his decision, I think Mr W should reasonably have  seen it. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest Prudential  assured Mr W its charges would never rise above 1% in total. So I cant 
say its acted unfairly by separately itemising  the additional charge of 0.11% as shown on his 
recent statement, rather than it just being included  in the calculation  of the unit price.  But 
Prudential recognised it hadnt  communicated  with Mr W as well as it could have. So it paid 
him £350 for this, along with some other customer service  issues, which I think  is fair.  
Mr W says he was attracted to Prudential because  its charges seemed reasonable. He may 
have had a similar experience with other providers during the period in question,  because  all 
providers are working to improve the way they disclose  their charges. Now hes fully aware 
of the charges applicable to his investment,  he can research the market  for providers 
offering lower charges if he wishes. While I understand Mr W will be disappointed, I dont 
uphold his complaint and wont  be asking  Prudential to reduce  or refund his charges.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense the redress already provided by Prudential 
Assurance Company  Limited is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1797284