K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 2005  when    
Mrs C applied for a credit  card by post.  Mrs C says Bank of Scotland  Plc  trading as Halifax  
(Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mrs C says the policy was sold during a telephone  conversation. Halifax  says it was via an 
internet application and has provided  us with a screenshot of its records  which  show  this. So 
Ive considered the sale as an internet one. 
Halifax shouldve made it clear that the PPI was optional.  It has provided a copy of Mrs Cs 
credit agreement which would have been  sent to her after she completed the online 
application. Looking  at this, it asks applicants  to tick a box if they want  the PPI and then sign. 
The box has been  ticked on Mrs Cs form and shes signed the section to say she wanted 
PPI. 
So, I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI - although I can 
understand why Mrs C cant remember this.
Mrs C says Halifax recommended the PPI.  As this policy was taken out online with no 
interaction with a Halifax representative,  I think its unlikely Halifax  recommend the PPI to 
her. So it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs C got 
the information she needed  to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Mrs C says she had sick pay benefits from her employer. The PPI would have paid out 
alongside her employee  benefits, as well as covering her repayments if she became 
unemployed. And I cant see that she had any other means  such  as savings  to make her 
repayments. So I think it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs C paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs C back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs C now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN10785532my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1078553