K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr B has told us he bought the policy with a credit  card in 1994.  This is also the basis on 
which Lloyds assessed the complaint.
Mr B says the sale was by post. Lloyds assessed it as an advised sale  in a branch  to be 
more favourable to Mr B.
The PPI provided  cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. The monthly  benefit  was 
10% of Mr Bs card balance, payable for up to 12 months. The policy  cost no more  than 79p 
per £100  of the outstanding balance. The policy also provided life cover.
The credit card account was closed  in 2000.  So the unfair relationship provisions in s.140A 
of the Consumer Credit  Act, the judgment  in Plevin  and related  FCA provisions  dont apply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The PPI was probably sold when Mr B took his card in 1994. Mr B says it was just included 
as part of the package with his card when he applied by post.  But Mr B took his card over 20 
years before he set out his recollections  for us. And buying insurance is often not very 
memorable. With all this in mind, Mr Bs recollections arent, on their own,  enough to make 
me think Lloyds just added the PPI without giving Mr B a choice or without getting  his 
permission. And I havent seen anything else to make me think  this is what happened. 
Also, what  we know of Lloyds postal application process at the time make me think  if Mr B 
applied by post the PPI was only added because he requested  it on his application form. 
Likewise, what we know of how Lloyds sold the PPI in branches at the time makes me think  
it likely  Mr B wouldve been  given  a choice about  the PPI if he took his card out at a branch.
Taking into account everything  I have, what I have doesnt make  me think it likely Lloyds 
added the PPI without offering Mr B a choice or without  getting his agreement.
Lloyds might have recommended the PPI to Mr B. And if Lloyds did recommend the PPI to
him it had to do more  and check  the PPI was right for him. So I think  its fair to assess the
complaint on that basis, which places more  responsibility on Lloyds. But based on what Ive
seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right for him. 
For example, Mr B was eligible for the PPI. Also he wasnt affected by any of the significant 
exclusions to or limits  on the cover  he was in permanent employment and didnt have any 
existing health  issues, for example. Also, he seems to have had a need for the cover. I say 
Ref: DRN12282142this bearing in mind  that, from what hes told us, Mr B was entitled to no more  than statutory 
sick pay and didnt  have  any other  means with which to pay his card if he couldnt work  due 
to sickness or redundancy. So in that situation the PPI benefit couldve been  useful to him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But, for the reasons  Ive explained, it seems likely  the cover wouldve  been useful for
him if something went wrong.  And I havent  seen enough to make me think he didnt choose
to take it - so I cant say that I think he didnt want this type of cover.  Taking everything
into account, I dont  think better information about  the PPI would have put Mr B off taking it.
Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that we are 
not correctly applying the regulators  rules  and guidance for handling  PPI complaints; these 
policies represented  poor value because  of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith 
meant Lloyds should have  disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.  
Mr Bs representative hasnt said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. 
Ive thought about these  things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular  case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont  think  I should 
uphold this complaint.
Ive thought about all Mr Bs points but, for the reasons Ive already given above, these 
points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion,
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1228214