K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB)  went  back on its promise not to reduce the interest 
rate on his account after a year.  He says TSB originally gave customers who held this kind 
of account a higher rate of interest  as a gesture of goodwill for the problems it had recently  
experienced, and he says its a breach of customer trust to go back  on its word. He wants  to 
be paid the rate of interest he says he was promised or to be compensated for the matter  
instead.
background
Mr G held a classic plus account with TSB that  at the time  was paying  him 3% interest. 
In May 2018  he received an email from TSB which said,  as well as waiving any overdraft 
fees and interest  charges incurred in March and April, the interest rate on that account would 
be increased to 5% from 1 May 2018. TSB says it offered the enhanced interest  rate as 
compensation for the IT issues that its customers had suffered around  that time.
In April 2019 he received another email  which stated that the rate on the account would be 
changed to 3% from 2 July 2019.
Mr G complained to TSB as he said to reduce the rate again  in just over a year, was a 
contradiction to its promise .  He wanted  the rate to be maintained at 5% or to be 
compensated in some  other way.
TSB said it had recently reviewed the interest  rate on the account  and decided to reduce it in 
line with its position  within the industry. It said that although it had no future  plans to reduce  
the rate when  it announced its increase, it regularly reviews rates  in line with changing  
market conditions  which had led it to reduce the rate on this occasion.
Mr G remained  unhappy so he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and said Mr Gs complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He said that the account was a variable  one and so TSB was able to change the rate 
under its terms and conditions (T&Cs). He said TSB had also given the required amount of 
notice to make the changes and thought it had acted correctly. Although he accepted that 
some of TSBs  statements and comments might  have  made  Mr G think otherwise.
Mr G didnt agree. He said his complaint was based  on an email he received  which  said,  
We are also increasing the interest  rate on our Classic Plus account from 3% to 5%. We 
promise this won't be taken away after a year."  He said that he believed this statement had 
changed the variable rate into a fixed rate and therefore the original T&Cs were no longer  
valid. 
He said TSB had breached the part of the regulators banking code of business which  said 
a communication  should  not describe a feature of a product or service as guaranteed 
protected or secure, or use a similar term unless: the term is capable of being fair, clear  
and not misleading.
As no resolution could  be found the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN15773642Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see how strongly Mr G feels that 
TSB shouldnt go back on its word which he says was to maintain the previously increased  
interest rate on his account. And I have some sympathy for his position as hes obviously 
disappointed to see the rate reduced  again just over a year after it was increased.
But I dont think TSB has done anything wrong here, which  I know is an outcome that will 
disappoint Mr G  so Ill explain why. 
TSBs classic plus account is a current account that pays  interest on balances of up to 
£1,500 in the account. The T&Cs for the account  explain  how the interest works. It says 
credit interest  is interest we pay you. The interest  rate is variable, which means  it can go up 
or down . Ive looked very carefully  through all the important documents  that TSB has issued  
regarding its accounts  and theres  no reference to this account having a guaranteed rate of 
interest, only variable interest rates.
And Ive also seen that when TSB originally  increased the rate, the account  information 
stated our most popular account  with 5% AER variable interest  on balances up to £1,500.  
And when  it was reduced again it said Please note the current interest rate is 5% 
AER/4.89% gross variable and will be 3% AER/2.96% gross variable from 2 July 2019.
So theres no evidence  to show TSB said the account would have a fixed rate  or that it 
couldnt ever change the rate. So I dont  think TSB has been misleading in the way it 
marketed the account  or subsequently managed  it through the variation of interest rates.
Mr G has referred  to the email he received from TSB which said the rate wont  be taken 
away after a year and he says this is a misleading  statement according to the regulators 
handbook which says a product shouldnt be described as guaranteed, protected, secure  or 
a similar  term unless  the term used is fair and clear. But I dont think  there was any 
suggestion of a guarantee or a similar term in TSBs  statement, I think it merely promised not 
to remove the higher  rate after a year, which  I note it hasnt done because  Mr G has 
received the higher rate for around 14 months. 
I think the spirit of TSBs offer was to say that it wasnt just a 12 month bonus that would 
automatically revert back after that time, but that it intended to keep the higher rate for as 
long as was possible  in the circumstances.  But I think  its clear that the terms of the account 
meant TSB always had the right to change the rate if market  conditions dictated. And thats a 
commercial decision TSB is free to make which we wouldnt  normally interfere with. 
What I would have  expected was for TSB to confirm  any changes in line with the T&Cs, 
which I think it did looking at its general banking T&Cs. These  explained what  changes it 
could make and how it should go about  communicating those changes. 
In this case, in the section entitled  interest rates , it states that TSB can reduce the rate of 
interest it pays but would  need to personally  notify  a customer  two months  in advance.  And 
Ive seen that TSB did that in its email  of April 2019. The email  also confirmed that if Mr G 
wasnt happy with the change he could  close his account  free of any charges  at any 
time. So Im satisfied that TSB was able to change the interest rate in line with these T&Cs 
and that it gave Mr G the required notice and the opportunity to move  his account if he 
wanted.  
Ref: DRN15773643In my experience current accounts only usually offer variable  rates of interest and if fixed 
rates of interest are ever used its usually for a specific length of time. I dont think  TSB ever 
intended that this higher rate of interest  would apply to Mr Gs current account for good  and 
theres no evidence  to show that it said that. So I dont think it would be fair for me to tell 
TSB to apply the higher  interest rate permanently in Mr Gs case, as theres no evidence  to 
show that it said it would do so. 
I can understand Mr Gs frustration over how TSB explained the change in interest rate and I 
can see why he would  think  the rate should be maintained indefinitely. But I cant  safely say 
TSB has done anything  wrong here and I wont be asking  it to maintain the higher interest 
rate for Mr G or to compensate him in any other  way.  
my final decision
For the reason  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1577364