K822xcomplaint
A, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc removed a payment from its 
account and blocked its use.
background 
A contacted HSBC  when it found  that a debit of £4,500 had been made from its account on 6 
December 2018.  HSBC said the director would  need  to attend a branch  to discuss  the earlier 
credit it related to received on 5 December 2018. This was not possible until 23 January 
2019 and the money  was then returned to A. HSBC then gave A two months notice to close 
the account. A said that it wanted  compensation for the impact of not having access  to its 
money as well as for inconvenience and the costs of using a consultant  to deal with this.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that HSBC had to 
ensure it complied with relevant legal and regulatory  requirements.  It wanted to ask A about 
the payment.  It was reasonable for it to remove the money and inhibit  use of the account 
while it did so. And it followed the terms and conditions when it gave notice to close the 
account. It had initially  registered a fraud marker at CIFAS, the national  fraud database  but 
this had now been removed and he could  not see this had an effect on A. He did not see 
that A needed  to employ a consultant  to deal with this and all communication  seemed to be 
with the director.
A did not agree. It said that the requirement  for the director to attend  a branch was 
completely unnecessary.  It was irrelevant who brought the documents and these could have 
been fraudulent  anyway.  HSBC did not attempt to check the authenticity of the documents.  A 
said it did not believe the funds it received were fraudulent  and this could have  been  due to 
false reporting. HSBC  had not provided any information to A to show  what its concerns were 
based on. And A wanted  to know what further  concerns  led to HSBC  deciding to close  its 
account. Without seeing these it thought  that these were frivolous.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its a matter for HSBC  to put in place processes to ensure it complies with all its legal and 
regulatory requirements. We dont have a role in saying what these should be as we are not 
the regulator. Im satisfied  based on what Ive seen  that it acted in line with those processes 
here.
HSBC has explained  to this service that when it has a query about a payment the director, in 
the case of a limited  company, would need  to attend a branch in person. This would allow 
the directors identification to be verified  and confirmation received that the person providing  
the information was acting  on behalf of the company. I appreciate that the director of A was 
abroad at the time which resulted in a delay before he could visit but I cant  reasonably hold 
HSBC responsible for that.
I also wont be saying anything further  about any checks it made and what  documentation it 
accepted from A and why. Clearly HSBC was satisfied with what  was provided  and as a 
result released the funds.
Ref: DRN10075872HSBC gave A the normal notice period to close the account in line with the terms and 
conditions. Im afraid it didnt have  to explain that commercial decision to A. As our 
investigator said it has removed the CIFAS marker, which Ive have expected it to as there is 
a high bar for reporting. And A has not said that there was any specific  impact of this.
In conclusion Im not going to be asking HSBC to do anything further as it did not make  a 
mistake or act unreasonably. So I dont find it should to compensate  A for any inconvenience 
caused or related costs.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1007587