K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Erudio Student  Loans Limited  hasnt  accepted  his deferment application 
for his loan.  
background
Erudio contacted Mr B in 2016 to explain his latest  deferment period on his loan was coming 
to an end. Mr B didnt complete a new deferment  application and didnt make  any payments 
towards the loan so arrears started  to accrue. Erudio called Mr B in April and May 2017 to 
discuss the arrears. Mr B told Erudio he had moved address so hadnt  received any letters. 
Mr B submitted a deferment application  online in May 2017. He stated  his income was from 
a combination of employment and self-employment.  But he didnt supply any evidence  of his 
earnings. Erudio  contacted  Mr B to say he needed  to supply three months  wage slips for his 
employed income and either 3 months  invoices, a letter  from his accountant or a tax return 
to evidence his self-employed  income.  
Mr B provided Erudio with three months  bank statements in October 2017. Erudio wrote to 
him to say this wasnt sufficient evidence to demonstrate what he was earning.  Because he 
didnt respond,  Erudio  declined the deferment  application. Erudio then sent him a notice  of 
default in November 2017 because  of the amount of arrears that had built up on the loan. 
Because Mr B didnt  respond to the notice of default within 28 days, Erudio terminated the 
loan agreement and the whole outstanding balance became  due. Mr B contacted Erudio 
shortly afterwards and was told he could no longer defer his loan. He then complained and 
said:
The original loan agreement he signed  doesnt allow  for the agreement  to be 
terminated. 
Erudio had altered  the wording of the agreement. 
Erudio should  have tried to call or email him to discuss the deferment first before 
sending a notice  of default.  
Hed sent sufficient  information to demonstrate his income was below the deferment 
threshold.
Erudio agreed  it had given Mr B some incorrect information in an email it sent to him about  
what the notice  of default said regarding  deferment. But it didnt agree with any of the other 
points Mr B had made. It said it had made  reasonable  attempts to contact  him and had 
explained what information was needed to consider the deferment application further which  
Mr B didnt provide.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that Mr B hadnt sent 
sufficient evidence of his gross income and it was entitled to decline his deferment  
application on that basis. He thought the terms of the loan agreement  allowed Erudio to 
terminate it and he thought Erudio had done enough  to try and warn Mr B about that 
possibility.
Mr B disagreed. In summary, he said he was self-employed  therefore  his bank statements 
showed his gross income. He didnt think Erudio had shown he received any of the letters or 
emails they say were  sent. He said he wasnt behind on his payments as his deferment 
application was in contention  at the time and no demand for payment had been  made  prior 
Ref: DRN14690452to the notice of default. Lastly,  he said his income  was clearly below the repayment threshold 
which Erudio hasnt  contested. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
deferment application
Mr B did submit a deferment  application online but from what Ive seen he didnt include any 
evidence of his income.  When  Erudio asked  him to send  him evidence it was clear about 
what Mr B needed to submit. Mr B only submitted three of his monthly bank  statements. 
These showed his self-employed gross  income. But Erudio had also asked Mr B to evidence 
his gross income from his other employment. 
Mr B had stated he was employed  and self-employed and earned an income  from both. So 
he hadnt provided Erudio with the required information in order for it to accept his deferment 
application. I can see Erudio did write  to him to explain  the bank statements werent 
sufficient evidence but Mr B didnt  respond. Mr B says he didnt receive  those letters/emails. 
But Im satisfied Erudio  did send them. And in any event  Mr B was already reasonably  aware 
of what evidence he needed to send and that what he actually sent wasnt sufficient. So for 
those reasons I dont  think  Erudio  acted unfairly in declining his deferment application. 
Mr B says it was clear his income was below  the required threshold so he says he was 
entitled to defer his loan. And whilst that might be true, he hadnt done  enough  to evidence 
that was the case. So I dont think Erudio had to accept  the application without the evidence 
it had asked for. 
termination of the agreement
The wording  of the agreement Erudio has relied on has been disputed  by Mr B. Hes 
provided us with a copy of the agreement and says this is the only one that should be relied  
on. Erudio says it hasnt changed  any of the wording  in the agreement  and Ive not seen 
anything to make me think it has either. But in any case, the terms in the agreement I refer to 
in this decision have  come directly from the agreement Mr B has supplied to us. 
The agreement says that Mr B can defer his loan for 12 months at a time so long as certain 
criteria are met. Clause 6.2 says he can defer  if (a) we have  not already asked you to repay 
the loan in full. A notice  of default was sent to Mr B in November  2017.  This explained that if 
he did not pay the current arrears or come to an arrangement (which could have included 
completing a deferment application) within 28 days,  his loan would  be terminated and 
become repayable in full. Because Mr B didnt comply with the notice, his loan became 
repayable in full and he lost his right to defer.  This is in line with the terms of his agreement.  
Clause 5.2 says If you do not make a repayment  under the agreement  when it is due, we 
may ask you to repay the loan in full immediately. Mr B says that he wasnt  behind  on any 
repayments because  his deferment  application was in dispute at the time. But I dont agree. 
Mr Bs previous deferment period had ended almost a year prior to the latest application  he 
Ref: DRN14690453submitted. If Mr B doesnt defer,  then his agreement says he has to start making 
repayments. So he was already in arrears before he submitted his deferment application. 
It appears Erudio were still willing to allow Mr B to defer anyway (despite being almost a year 
in arrears). But Mr B didnt provide the required evidence in order  for the application to be 
accepted. And I can see he didnt  want  to provide Erudio  with his current  address which  
made it much harder to contact him. I can see Erudio did eventually trace Mr Bs current  
address and sent him numerous letters about the account being in arrears prior to sending  
him the notice of default. Mr B also didnt contact Erudio in the timescale  given by the notice 
of default despite saying  he received that letter. So for those reasons I think Erudio has 
acted fairly  in terminating the loan and asking for full repayment. 
contact
Erudio has shown that it did send letters and emails  out to Mr B. He says these werent  
received and he says Erudio  hasnt  shown he got them.  But Im satisfied from the evidence  
Erudios provided  that it likely did send them. 
Mr B has received some correspondence from Erudio including the notice of default  and 
information about what evidence he needed to submit for his deferment. The other  
correspondence which Mr B says wasnt received was sent and addressed  in the same  way. 
Im not sure why those  werent received, but I dont think this was because of anything 
Erudio did wrong.  
Mr B says Erudio should have contacted  him by phone to discuss  the deferment  before 
sending the notice of default.  I can see that Erudio did call him in April and May 2017 when it 
was originally going to default the account due to the amount of arrears. But Mr B said he 
would complete a deferment application  and he was told what  would happen if this wasnt  
accepted. Although it might have been  helpful to call him again later in the year, Im satisfied 
that overall Erudio  made reasonable attempts to notify Mr B of the evidence he needed to 
submit, the failed  application, the arrears and default. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1469045