K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS)  recorded  adverse 
information on his credit file.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 23 July 2019, a copy of which is attached as it forms part 
of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr J and JLFS have accepted my provisional findings and there hasnt been any new 
information put forward. So my thoughts about this complaint havent changed since I wrote 
my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), I uphold 
this complaint. My final decision is that John Lewis Financial Services  Limited should 
arrange to remove  from Mr Js credit  file all adverse data about the credit card for the period 
from November 2017 to October 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10691172copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr J complains that John Lewis  Financial  Services Limited (JLFS) recorded adverse information on 
his credit file.
background
Mr J has a credit card with JLFS. He moved house in the autumn of 2017 and used the card to make 
a purchase at around that time. But he didnt receive the statement showing  that purchase or any 
statements after that because JLFS sent them to his old address. Mr J didnt make any payments to 
the account after he moved house. So interest accrued on the outstanding  balance  and JLFS applied 
default fees because he wasnt meeting the minimum payments. They  reported the non-payment to 
the credit reference agencies, meaning that Mr Js credit file contains adverse  information  about  the 
account.
In October 2018, Mr J tried to make a purchase using the card but couldnt  do so because  the 
account had been blocked. He contacted  JLFS and at that point became  aware  of the outstanding 
balance on the account. He paid it in full straight away, including the interest and charges.
But Mr J says he told JLFS  of his change  of address at the time he moved  house in 2017. So he says 
they should  have updated their records and sent the statements  to his new address. If he had 
received the statements, he says he would have been aware of the outstanding  balance  and would 
have paid it when it first fell due. So he says that JLFS should remove the adverse data from his 
credit file. 
But JLFS say they have no record of Mr J telling  them his new address. They  continued  to send 
monthly statements  to the address they had on record. They  say they are obliged to report accurate 
information to the credit reference agencies and that the non-payment information  on Mr Js credit file 
is a true reflection of the payment history of his card.  So they say they havent made a mistake.
Our adjudicator recommended  that JLFS remove the adverse entries  from Mr Js credit file because 
he didnt think they were an accurate reflection of his creditworthiness. So he didnt think  it was fair for 
Mr Js credit file to be negatively affected.
Mr J accepted our adjudicators recommendation. But JLFS  didnt agree, so the complaint has been  
referred to an ombudsman for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Based on the information available, Im satisfied that JLFS  werent aware of Mr Js new address until 
he contacted them in October  2018.  Ive seen the email message which Mr J says confirms that he 
had updated his details  with JLFS. But the message  isnt from JLFS. Its from another business which  
is a separate company and legal entity.  And the vouchers which Mr J has received since moving are 
also from the other business, not JLFS.
It seems that Mr J had updated his details with the other business. I can understand that he might 
have thought  they were the same organisation as JLFS.  But the reality  is that they are separate and 
there would  be no way of JLFS knowing of Mr Js new address by virtue of the fact that the other 
business knew  it. So, although I understand why Mr J thought JLFS knew his new address, Im 
satisfied that they didnt.
Ref: DRN10691173The information Ive seen confirms that JLFS  continued  to send Mr Js monthly  statements to his old 
address. Im satisfied that Mr J didnt receive any statements after he moved  because, from 
December 2017, they were returned to JLFS  marked not at this address, presumably by the new 
occupier of Mr Js old house.
Mr J has been a customer  of JLFS for several years. He says he has always settled the account 
balance in full as soon  as he receives  his statement. He says it was an oversight that he didnt pay off 
the balance in December  2017. He had used the card the month before and should have been 
expecting to receive a statement and make  a payment  some time after that. But I think its 
understandable in the circumstances  here that he may have overlooked this. And Im satisfied that he 
didnt receive the December statement, so he had nothing to remind him to pay. 
As soon as he became aware of the outstanding balance  a year later, he paid it in full including the 
interest and charges. I think that suggests he would have paid it earlier  if hed received the 
statements. And, as Ive said above, he thought he had told JLFS his new address.
I agree that JLFS have a duty to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies.  And 
there was an outstanding  balance on Mr Js card for around a year with no payments being  made 
towards it. But I think JLFS  should have  done more  here to try and contact Mr J. Theyve confirmed 
that his post was returned  to them with the reason that he wasnt at that address.  So they knew he 
wasnt receiving anything from them by that method.  But theyve confirmed that they didnt  try to 
contact him by email  or phone,  even  when  his account had been passed to their Collections 
department. I dont think  that was a reasonable approach here and its had a detrimental effect  on Mr 
J. His credit file has been negatively  impacted and I think that could have been avoided if JLFS had 
attempted to contact Mr J by alternative means.
So I think the fair approach  here would  be for JLFS to remove  the adverse  entries about  the credit 
card from Mr Js credit  file.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties, I intend to 
uphold this complaint. My provisional decision is that John  Lewis Financial Services Limited  should  
arrange to remove from Mr Js credit file all adverse data about the credit card for the period from 
November 2017 to October  2018.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1069117