K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains about the service  she received from TSB Bank plc in around May 2018. 
Shes also unhappy with the way in which it dealt with her complaint. 
background
On 5 November  2014 Mrs T opened a current account with TSB. She also has a joint 
account with her husband.  And he has a TSB current  account in his own name too. 
In May 2018  Mrs Ts husband made a complaint to TSB via a company,  which  Ill refer to as 
R. This complaint was sent from the account Mr T holds with R. It was dated 19 May 2018 
and contained  two separate complaints. One complaint  was electronically signed off by Mrs 
T and it related to her sole account. The other complaint was electronically signed off by 
both Mr and Mrs T. This complaint was about  their joint account.
The complaint that was referred to TSB outlined a number of difficulties that Mrs T had 
experienced with her sole account.  It also explained that Mr and Mrs T had experienced the 
same problems with their joint account.  These  can be summarised as follows:
Mrs T had been unable to login to her account online or via her mobile app. The 
same issue  had arisen in respect  of Mr and Mrs Ts joint account.
There had been occasions where  Mrs T had either not seen the correct account  
balance or had been able to see other peoples accounts when using online or 
mobile banking.  The same issues had arisen in respect of the joint account.
Mrs T had been unable to make  one-of  payments from her account that she needed  
to make when she was able to login, which had resulted in an adverse entry on her 
credit file. Again, the same issues were  said to have arisen in respect  of the joint 
account. 
Mrs T hadnt  been able to speak to anyone about her concerns  either  by telephone 
due to excessive  waiting times or in branch due to excessive queues. The same  
issues had arisen in relation to the joint account.
TSB investigated the complaint it received from Mr T and said the problems raised related to 
IT issues  that it experienced during April 2018  when it migrated to a new IT platform. It paid 
£1150 in compensation to resolve this complaint  and, on 21 January 2019,  credited this sum 
to Mr and Mrs Ts joint account. The following day it sent a final response letter, which  was 
addressed to Mr T.
On 9 March 2019 Mrs T referred a complaint to our service about her accounts with TSB. 
This complaint was sent to us by Mr T using his account with R. In that complaint Mrs T 
complained that TSB hadnt responded to her complaint or resolved it. She said she had 
submitted her complaint to TSB at the same time that Mr T had submitted his complaint, 
which she said it had responded to and resolved.  She also said that her complaint to TSB 
had been based on substantially the same issues that her husbands had referred  to.
TSB said it hadnt received a complaint from Mrs T directly. Instead, it said it had received a 
complaint from Mr Ts account with R about  Mrs Ts sole account  and their joint account.  It 
said it had written to Mr T explaining how it had resolved that complaint. And it said it had 
decided to pay £1150 in compensation having  assessed how the problems Mrs T had 
complained about had impacted on her sole account, joint account with Mr T and his sole 
account. 
Ref: DRN18111512So, it said it had adopted an inclusive approach to Mrs Ts complaint  even though the 
complaint it had received from Mr T hadnt  referred  to him experiencing any problems with 
his sole account.  It also said it had already paid Mrs T £171  in compensation to resolve a 
complaint she had made about an account closure request, which was unrelated to this 
complaint.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ts complaint and thought TSB had already resolved her 
complaint in January 2019 when  it paid £1150 in compensation. They didnt think  TSB had 
made an error in the way it dealt with her complaint and said they thought  the compensation 
it had already paid was fair and reasonable. But Mrs T disagreed and asked for the matter to 
be referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mrs T experienced here. Based on the evidence  Ive 
seen its clear that the issues she has referred to were caused by the IT migration problems 
TSB experienced in April 2018. TSB has already made a goodwill payment, which  it says 
addresses the problems  Mrs T encountered.  So, the issue here is whether its acted fairly 
and reasonably in offering to put things right. 
Ive looked carefully  at the complaint that was submitted to TSB by Mr T via R in May 2018. I 
can see that it originated  from his account with R. But while  it was sent by Mr T it clearly  
refers to issues that Mrs T was experiencing with her sole account and that they both 
encountered with their joint account in around  May 2018. The complaint  doesnt refer to Mr T 
experiencing any issues with his sole account.
On this basis, TSB treated this complaint as one that had been made on behalf  of Mrs T by 
her husband. The complaint submitted  to TSB was electronically signed by her and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Mrs T was unaware that her husband had sent the complaint to TSB 
on her behalf.
Mrs T says she didnt  give her consent  for TSB to deal with her complaint in the way it did. 
But TSB had no reason  to think that Mrs T hadnt  given her authority to Mr T to raise the 
complaint on her behalf.
Mrs T said that she made a separate  complaint  to TSB, which it didnt respond to. Shes 
unhappy about this. But TSB says it only received the complaint that had originated  from Mr 
Ts account  with R. Its clear that Mrs T and TSB disagree here, but theres  no evidence of 
another complaint being sent separately in her sole name. 
Mrs T doesnt think the amount that TSB has already paid includes compensation to 
recognise the difficulties  she experienced. So, Ive assessed whether the level of 
compensation TSB paid appropriately recognises what  happened as far as she is 
concerned.
TSB paid a total compensation award of £1150.  It said this was intended to recognise the 
trouble and upset  both Mr and Mrs T had been caused by issues  they experienced across 
their joint and sole accounts. It said it took this approach because,  at the time,  it knew  a 
Ref: DRN18111513significant number  of its customers were experiencing issues across all their bank accounts. 
And it said it took the view that, while Mr T hadnt complained  about  his own sole account, 
he must have been affected if his wife had been impacted in the way she claimed. I think this 
demonstrates that TSB were trying  to look at this complaint as fairly as it could, in an 
inclusive way  as its said. 
TSB says its practice was to compensate those affected to the sum of £250  per account. 
The goodwill  gesture  paid by TSB here was significantly more  than this. TSB could have 
made it clearer that this was intended  to cover  all of Mr and Mrs Ts accounts. But its told us 
that it dealt with the overall complaint from Mr and Mrs T and paid compensation based on 
this. To be clear to Mrs T  I havent just taken TSBs word  here.  But, on balance,  what  its 
said, alongside the amount it awarded,  plus the fact this amount was paid to their joint 
account, means Im satisfied that TSB has compensated Mrs T for the impact  these issues 
had on her. 
I can see that our investigator  asked  Mrs T to provide the specifics  and dates of when she 
received poor service  so they could consider whether additional trouble and upset had been 
caused to her, which may not have been included  within the complaint  made  on her behalf 
by Mr T. But Mrs T hasnt  said anything in response to make me think  that TSB should  pay 
any more than it already  has done  in the circumstances.
The issues  that Mrs T says affected her sole and joint account are serious  and I can 
understand why they caused  her great  concern. But, given what  TSB has said, Id have 
expected it to offer Mr and Mrs T a goodwill gesture in the sum of around £750 to cover  their 
three accounts. Had it done  that I would have  been  satisfied that £250 was a fair and 
reasonable offer to compensate Mrs T. But its paid more than that here overall, which  I think  
is a helpful gesture. With that in mind,  and taking into account  all Mrs T has told us, Im 
satisfied that what  TSB has paid her as a part of its response is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to her complaint.
In the final response  letter  TSB offered to rectify any adverse information recorded on Mr 
and Mrs Ts credit file subject to evidence  being provided. I think  that was a fair approach by 
TSB. And I cant  see that any evidence was provided to it to show that adverse information 
has been reported to credit  reference agencies as a result of the problems  caused  by TSBs 
IT difficulties. If Mrs T wishes to provide such evidence to TSB she can do so.
So, for the reasons set out above, I think that TSB has acted fairly and reasonably  and Im 
not going to be asking  it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020,
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1811151