K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Mrs G say GE Money  Home Lending Limited mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr L and Mrs G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2006. Mr L and Mrs G paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr L only, in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr L and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided that this PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I can see that Mr L and Mrs G completed  a fact find with GE Money, where they went 
through their circumstances.  Its recorded there that theyd have a problem keeping  up their 
repayments if Mr L was out of work,  and that it was their priority to protect  their repayments 
for peace of mind.  Mr L and Mrs G signed below to confirm  this, and were then sent a follow-
up document setting  out what policy GE Money  recommended and what it cost.  This was 
just a recommendation and not a requirement. Mr L and Mrs G then submitted an application 
specifically for PPI, separately  to applying for the mortgage itself. That form also set out the 
policys cost, separately  to the cost of the mortgage. And the key facts illustration and 
mortgage offer both reiterated what the PPI cost, that it was optional, and that they didnt 
have to take any insurance  from GE Money  if they didnt want  to. So I think  that GE Money 
made Mr L and Mrs G aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to 
take it out.
GE Money  recommended the PPI for Mr L, so it had to check it was right for him. And based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  it was. For example, Mr L doesnt 
seem to have been affected by any of the policys key exclusions or limitations. He did have 
some sick pay, but the PPI covered him for twice  as long and paid out on top, and it doesnt 
look like he had any equivalent  protection in case he lost his job.
While I understand the family wouldve been  more  than willing  to help,  there was always the 
chance theyd  be unable to help when  needed. And this policy meant  that Mr L and Mrs G 
wouldnt have to ask their family to pay their mortgage. Its worth bearing in mind that Mr L 
was the sole earner, and if Mr L and Mrs G fell behind on their payments they risked  losing 
their home. So I think the PPI couldve really been useful for them  in protecting  their home.
The cost of the policy was shown on the insurance  recommendation, PPI application,  key 
facts illustration and mortgage  offer. So I think Mr L and Mrs G wouldve  understood how 
much they would need to pay for it. It also looks like the PPI was affordable  for them.
Ref: DRN17276252Lastly, its possible GE Money  didnt point out all the main things the policy wouldnt cover.  
But as I said above,  Mr L doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr L and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L and Mrs G 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1727625