K822xcomplaint
Mr B is complaining Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions Ltd (Hitachi) didnt adjust his mileage 
allowance on his consumer hire agreement when he asked it to.
background 
In March 2016 Mr B entered  into a consumer hire agreement through Hitachi  to lease a car. 
The agreement was to run over 24 months  and Mr B was entitled to drive  up to 24,000 miles 
over the course  of the agreement. And the terms of the agreement said that he would have 
to pay a further charge for every mile he drove  in excess  of 24,000 miles.
In October  2017 Mr B realised that he was going to drive  more than 24,000  before  the 
agreement ended. So he contacted Hitachi  to ask to increase his mileage allowance. Initially 
Hitachi said that he was too close to the end of the agreement, so it didnt allow  him to do so. 
Mr B complained about this, after which Hitachi allowed him to make  the changes.
Hitachi then sent him a form setting out the increased costs  and asked  him to confirm he 
was happy to continue.  The form said that his monthly lease  payments were  increasing to 
£603.58 (excl. VAT) from £415.08  (excl.  VAT). Mr B signed and returned the agreement.   
In March 2018 Mr B was arranging to return the car and asked Hitachi  to check  the annual  
mileage he was allowed  and Hitachi said it was 24,000. Mr B complained  that it should have 
been changed to 28,000. But Hitachi said it hadnt done the change because  it hadnt 
received the amendment form. 
 
Mr B returned the car and it had driven  around  28,200 miles.  Hitachi then sent Mr B an 
invoice for the additional miles and charged  him around £1,030. Mr B complained  again, 
following which Hitachi said it would only charge him what it would have charged had the 
amendment been  made  £904.80.  And it offered  a further £150  in compensation which it 
said it would  take off the amount Mr B owed. So it said Mr B owed £754.80 and it said it was 
willing to agree a suitable  repayment plan to repay  it over a period of time.
Mr B thinks  he should only be charged  for the extra 200 miles he drove above the 28,000 
limit he should have had. He also says that hes had to make a large number  of calls to 
Hitachi over the last eight  months and he doesnt think this has been taken into account.  
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. He thought it was fair for Hitachi  to charge 
the additional amount Mr B would have  paid had the amendment been made. But he thought 
Hitachi should pay a further £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter had caused.
Hitachi accepted  the investigators findings.  Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same  conclusion as the investigator for largely the reasons and I think  
Hitachis latest offer to resolve the complaint is fair. Ill now explain why.
Ref: DRN16080962I think there are two issues for me to consider in this decision:
1.Is it fair for Hitachi to charge Mr B what it would have charged  had the mileage 
amendment been made; and
2.Is the compensation its offered  Mr B for the distress and inconvenience fair?
I shall deal with each  point separately.
mileage amendment charge
Mr B doesnt  think Hitachi should  be able to charge for the additional mileage because it 
says it was Hitachis fault the amendment wasnt done. 
I think it would be helpful to first of all set out this services role. Our role is not to fine or 
punish a business  that is the role of the industrys regulator. This service  is a dispute 
resolution service. And our role is to look at whether a business has acted fairly. Where  we 
find something has gone wrong, our role is to put the consumer back in the position  they 
would have been in had the error  not been  made   i.e. had Hitachi  done the mileage 
amendment to the contract. 
Ive taken Mr Bs comments into account,  but I think the actual reason Mr B has incurred  the 
additional charges is because he underestimated when he took out the lease  agreement  
how many  miles  hed drive in the car over the two years.  I cant  hold Hitachi responsible for 
that.
Mr B did apply to change the mileage allowance on the contract, but Hitachi didnt process it. 
Had Hitachi done the amendment, Mr Bs monthly lease payments would have increased by 
£226.20 each  month.  He had four more payments to make so he should have paid a further  
£904.80. So I think its fair that Mr B should have  to pay this. But Hitachi has said its willing 
to agree to a suitable repayment  plan so that Mr B can repay this over a reasonable period 
of time. I think thats fair.
distress and inconvenience
Mr B says that hes had to make a large number of telephone  calls over the last year to 
resolve this. And he says that this has been  a significant inconvenience to him.
First of all, I can only require  Hitachi to compensate  Mr B for any distress  and inconvenience  
its unfairly caused Mr B. Ive reviewed Hitachis internal records  and I can see that Mr B has 
had to make  a number  of telephone calls.  But a number  of these were in October 2017 
where he was looking  to change the mileage on the agreement. Mr B made  these calls 
because of a need to increase the mileage allowance. And, as I said, I dont think  Hitachi  
was responsible for him having to do this. So I cant require it to compensate him for this.
Mr B says that he had to make a number of calls after he returned the amendment form to 
try and resolve this. Hitachi  has said that it didnt keep records of telephone calls at that time. 
So I dont  have anything  to say that Mr B didnt have to make a number of unnecessary 
calls. And I think this would have  caused him some distress and inconvenience. 
I can also see that Hitachi has sent Mr B a number of letters chasing him for the outstanding  
debt, despite repeatedly  saying that it would put the debt on hold while the complaint was 
Ref: DRN16080963with this service. And I think  that this has caused him some  further  distress  and 
inconvenience too.
However, Hitachi has already offered £200 in compensation. So while its clear that its 
caused him some distress and inconvenience,  I think the amount its offered in 
compensation is fair in the circumstances  of this particular complaint. I also think its fair for 
Hitachi to use the compensation to reduce the amount  that Mr B owes.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint 
because I think its fair for Hitachi Capital  Vehicle  Solutions Ltd to require Mr B to repay 
£908.80. I also think its compensation offer of £200 is fair and it can take this off the amount 
Mr B owes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1608096