K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about the handling  of their claim for damage  to their home by Aviva  
Insurance Limited and its agents .
background
Mr and Mrs F jointly held a household  insurance policy,  which  was provided by Aviva. On 25 
September 2017 they contacted Aviva to report that a fuel pipe to their boiler had leaked. Mr 
and Mrs Fs boiler cupboard was situated  in their kitchen. They  said damage was caused to 
their kitchen walls and oil leaked  onto the floor and under their floor tiles of their kitchen. 
They also said the smell of oil permeated  their whole property, which affected their soft 
furnishings, furniture and clothing.
Mr and Mrs F informed  Aviva the escape of oil had happened on 8 September  2017 and 
they said they were  alerted by the smell. They  said theyd encountered delays in their boiler  
engineer attending their home following the leak. And they asked Aviva to cover the cost of 
reinstating the damage to their home.
Mr and Mrs Fs home was uninhabitable  during  the reinstatement works. So, they vacated 
their property. Mr and Mrs F initially decided to stay with their relatives.  However, after a 
period of two weeks, they asked Aviva to secure  alternative accommodation  on their behalf. 
Mr and Mrs F said there were delays in Aviva  finding  suitable  accommodation  for them,  
which resulted in them having to find their own alternative accommodation instead. They  
also said there was poor communication about  the temporary accommodation arrangements 
Aviva had made on their behalf. And they said this caused additional  unnecessary stress 
because it was often  left to them to chase  Aviva for an assurance that their alternative  
accommodation would be extended for as long as was needed.
Mr and Mrs F were  also unhappy with how Aviva progressed their claim. They  said there 
was a lengthy delay between the removal of their kitchen floor tiles and floor.  They said, 
while the tiles were removed on around  19 October 2017, no further  work  was undertaken 
until 21 December 2017 when work  began  to remove their contaminated floor.  They say this 
delay caused  the oil to spread deeper  and further.  And they say this led to the oil smell 
further permeating  their property.
Mr and Mrs F also said they were informed theyd be given a temporary  external boiler. But 
this never  materialised.  So, their home was unheated between  October  2017  and April 2018. 
They say this caused significant damp, mould and condensation damage  to items within 
their property  including soft furnishings  and internal doors,  which swelled making  it 
impossible to open or close them.
When Mr and Mrs F inspected the reinstallation of their kitchen, they were unhappy with the 
standard of the work undertaken.  They  say the worktop and units werent fitted properly and 
the finish was poor.  Mr and Mrs F voiced  similar concerns about the replacement floor that 
had been laid.
Mr and Mrs F said, despite  two attempts by Aviva  to install their kitchen, the quality  of work 
remained unsatisfactory. They say this caused a loss of confidence and led to them  
appointing an independent contractor,  at their own expense, to completely  dismantle and 
Ref: DRN14923212properly reinstall  their kitchen. It also meant that when Mr and Mrs F had to vacate their 
temporary accommodation and return to their own property they had no functioning kitchen.
Mr and Mrs F complained to Aviva  about  how it had progressed their claim. It upheld their 
complaint in part and paid them £200  compensation to take into account the problems theyd 
experienced insofar as the issues with their kitchen were concerned. But it rejected all other  
complaint points Mr and Mrs F had raised  as it didnt think it had made any errors.
Being dissatisfied with how Aviva had dealt with their complaint Mr and Mrs F referred it to 
our service.  Our investigator looked  into what had happened  and recommended upholding 
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint in part as they didnt think Aviva had acted fairly. They  werent 
persuaded the amount  of compensation Aviva had paid Mrs and Mr F fairly recognised the 
trouble and upset  theyd  been caused  in it dealing with their claim. They thought  Aviva 
should pay an additional £400  compensation  bringing the total amount to £600. 
Mr and Mrs F accepted our investigators view of their complaint and the compensation that 
had been recommended.  But Aviva  disagreed with our investigators compensation 
recommendation and asked  for this complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mr and Mrs F experienced  here.  I know they feel very 
strongly about this matter.  And I appreciate the reasons theyve brought  their complaint  to 
our service.  But, while I sympathise with them, the issue that I must determine is whether I 
think Aviva  made a mistake, or treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly,  such that it needs to now put 
things right. In thinking about  this, Ive considered things  from both sides.  
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base  my decision  on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Mr and Mrs F and 
Aviva for the level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered  all 
the information provided and, if I havent  specifically referred to a point that Mr and Mrs F or 
Aviva have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I 
think are the key issues, which is an approach that reflects the informal nature of this 
service.
There are several parts to Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. These were  set out clearly in our 
investigators view of their complaint. And I think it will make things clearer  if I deal with each 
issue separately. Ill use the headings our investigator used.
The temporary boiler and delays  removing  the kitchen floor
Aviva refuted that it told Mr and Mrs F it would provide them  with a temporary external boiler.  
And it told our investigator that Mr F had refused to vacate his property and had a fire and 
heater on throughout on a daily basis. Ive thought about whether that left Mr and Mrs F out 
of pocket. But havent seen any evidence to show that Mr and Mrs Fs utility  bills were 
increased as a result of this.
Ref: DRN14923213Im afraid I havent seen  enough evidence to satisfy me Aviva informed Mr and Mrs F it 
would install a temporary boiler. And I think that, by continuing to heat their property, Mr and 
Mrs F were able to mitigate  the damage  caused in the same way a boiler would have done.
Aviva accepted that the internal doors within  Mr and Mrs Fs property had swelled. But it said 
the doors had been poorly fitted prior to the escape  of oil. And it said the swelling eased and 
the doors were  adjusted  and redecorated during the reinstatement phase  of Mr and Mrs Fs 
property. I havent  seen any evidence contradicting what Avivas said about this. So, Im 
satisfied the doors were  restored to their pre-loss  condition.
Aviva has also told our service there was no lasting damp or mould damage to the walls or 
woodwork within Mr and Mrs Fs home because the both were stripped off and, in most 
cases, renewed completely or re-built.  I can see our investigator asked Mr and Mrs F to 
provide evidence of the damp,  mould or other  damage their property interior, soft furnishings 
and furniture sustained. However, they havent done  so. 
As I havent  seen any evidence that discredits  what Aviva  has said Im persuaded that its 
failure to provide a boiler, and the delays Mr and Mrs F experienced in the removal  of their 
kitchen floor, havent caused or contributed  to any lasting  damage to their home. It follows 
that I cant fairly ask Aviva to pay compensation for something that hasnt happened.
Ill turn now to Mr and Mrs Fs concerns about  the delays they experienced in the removal  of 
their floor. 
As I set out in the background  to this complaint, Mr and Mrs F told our investigator that due 
to delays in removing their floor tiles and floor this led to the oil spreading further  and 
deeper. They also feel this caused  the smell of oil to further permeate their property  and 
damage soft furnishings.
Ive taken Mr and Mrs Fs comments  on board.  But Im not persuaded Aviva  was responsible 
for all the delays they experienced.  I say this because, in not vacating his property, Mr F 
prevented Aviva from removing the floor due to health and safety reasons.
Im also not satisfied that any of the delays  which Aviva may have been responsible for in 
removing Mr and Mrs Fs kitchen floor led to the damage they have reported. I say this the 
source of the leak had already identified  and removed. This persuades  me that further 
spread and contamination was unlikely.  
I think the reason  that the oil smell permeated Mr and Mrs Fs property was because the leak 
was pre-existing and had been ongoing  for a considerable period of time. Aviva  has referred 
our investigator to comments from its contractors about the intensity of the oil smell during 
their initial visit to Mr and Mrs Fs property. And, based on the evidence  Ive seen, Im 
satisfied the leak was something that hadnt  just occurred. In such circumstances, it wouldnt 
be fair for me to hold Aviva responsible  for any damage that was caused  by the smell of oil.
Quality of the kitchen installation work 
Mr and Mrs F provided our service with photographs,  which  satisfy me that the quality of 
their kitchen installation  by Aviva was poor.  The photographs Ive seen show  damage was 
caused to some of the units. And I can see some of the units werent fitted properly.
Ref: DRN14923214I understand Aviva attempted  to fit Mr and Mrs Fs kitchen twice. However, after the second  
attempt Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy  with the quality of the installation and lost 
confidence in Aviva. Based on the photographs Ive seen,  I can understand why Mr and Mrs 
F felt it necessary to appoint an independent contractor to dismantle  and refit their kitchen. 
Its unfortunate this caused a two month delay in the kitchen work being completed.  And it 
led to a situation where Mr and Mrs F were left without a functioning kitchen when they 
moved back home. This was unfair.
Im pleased to see that Aviva has reimbursed Mr and Mrs F for the costs  they incurred in 
putting their kitchen right. Its also paid them £200 compensation for the delay they 
experienced in their kitchen being reinstated. Aviva  has told our service that this sum has 
been calculated  on the basis of £100 per month of delay.
Its clear Mr and Mrs F are unhappy  with the amount of compensation offered by Aviva. They  
feel it doesnt adequately recognise the trouble and upset their experience. I agree that £200  
isnt sufficient to reflect  the distress  and inconvenience Mr and Mrs F would have been 
caused. So, Ive thought  carefully about what a fair resolution to this part of their complaint 
might look like.
Our investigator recommended that Aviva pay Mr and Mrs F a further £400 compensation  
bringing the total amount  to £600.  But Aviva feels that amount is too high. Ive therefore 
assessed whether  the level of compensation our investigator recommended appropriately 
recognises what happened here.
We dont punish  businesses by awarding damages  or compensation as this isnt our role. 
When deciding what potential compensation to award our service  must take two things into 
account: financial loss as a result  of any business error and non-financial loss, including 
inconvenience and upset. 
As Ive mentioned  Aviva has already reimbursed Mr and Mrs F for the cost they incurred in 
the work  undertaken to put their kitchen  right.  So, theyre no longer out of pocket as a result  
of what happened. In those circumstances, it wouldnt  be fair or impartial  of me to make an 
award for financial loss against Aviva.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula  that we use to calculate  
awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact Avivas  actions had on Mr 
and Mrs F and to decide, within guidelines  set by our service,  what an appropriate  amount of 
compensation might be. 
Its clear to me that Mr and Mrs Fs experience here went beyond  mere irritation.  They  were  
caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. And I understand that Mrs Fs health 
deteriorated as a result of the difficulties she and Mr F experienced with the kitchen 
installation process,  which  Im sorry to hear about. 
Ive no doubt that it must have been very frustrating and difficult  for Mr and Mrs F to have to 
challenge the quality of the work undertaken by Aviva. The problems with their kitchen 
installation led to them not having a functioning kitchen for longer than was necessary.  And 
theyve both explained how stressful and inconvenient it was having to arrange, and pay for, 
an independent contractor to restore their kitchen  to its pre-loss state after Avivas  previous 
installation attempts had failed. Mr and Mrs F were entitled to expect a satisfactory quality of 
work from those Aviva  appointed. But its clear that wasnt provided.
Ref: DRN14923215I can see that pursuing their claim has been a very stressful experience for Mr and Mrs F. I 
recognise that its inherent with any property insurance claim that there will be stress and 
considerable inconvenience.  But here, I think much of the distress  and inconvenience Mr 
and Mrs F suffered could  have been  avoided had their kitchen been installed property at the 
outset. It isnt clear why this couldnt  be achieved by Aviva.  This led to delay. And its only 
right that Aviva  recognises  the avoidable and unnecessary trouble and upset  this all caused.
Having had regard  to the impact on Mr and Mrs F Im satisfied that an additional £400  
compensation would be a fair and reasonable reflection of the avoidable distress
and inconvenience  they were caused.  This is consistent with awards we have made in 
similar circumstances and its what I would have told Aviva  to pay. 
Alternative accommodation
Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs F have told our investigator about the difficulties 
they experienced in relation to the arrangement of their alternative accommodation. And Ive 
taken into account  what their insurance  policy  says about their entitlement  to temporary 
accommodation if their house  is uninhabitable.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen here, it appears that some of the problems Mr and Mrs F 
experienced were  caused by their dislike of some of the properties that were offered as 
temporary accommodation options. And I think that, ultimately, led to Mr and Mrs F sourcing 
alternative accommodation that they felt was more suitable to their requirements.
I havent seen  any evidence that Mr and Mrs F incurred  a financial cost while staying in 
alternative accommodation. I appreciate that they suffered distress and inconvenience  while  
living elsewhere. But this is to be expected when a policyholder is temporarily 
accommodated elsewhere while their home is being reinstated.  Im not persuaded Mr and 
Mrs Fs stress was exacerbated as a result of Avivas actions. Im therefore  not going  to 
direct that Aviva  pays any compensation in relation to this part of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Aviva Insurance Limited  should  pay 
Mr and Mrs F and additional £400 compensation to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 January  2021.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1492321