K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Ms C. FICL didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001 alongside a store credit account. Ms C 
was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account  in the shop.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Ms C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Ms C has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
The form, which Ms C signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, and shes  also signed 
separately to confirm she wanted  the PPI.
Ms C has said the PPI wasnt explained  properly. It doesnt seem  that FICL  recommended  
the PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms Cs individual needs.  This means  it didnt have 
to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It would have been for Ms C to decide  whether it 
was suitable.
However FICL did need to give Ms C clear  and fair information, so she can make  an 
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least  the information  is 
likely to have made  a difference. But given Ms Cs circumstances at the time, even if shed 
been given all the necessary information,  I dont think its likely to have made a different to 
her decision.
I say this because  Ms C didnt have  any sick pay from her employer. So the PPI could have 
been useful if shed been unable to work  for any length of time. It would have been in 
addition to any statutory  sick pay or redundancy pay. And Ms C could have kept in reserve 
any other means she had for meeting her living costs and debts. Overall the PPI is likely to 
have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt look like shed  have been  affected by any of 
the significant exclusions in the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN16573552Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1657355