K820x#14complaint
Ms M says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Ms M bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint because:
I think FICL made Ms M aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. 
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Ms Ms store  card application. On this form 
there was a section  with the heading Protecting  your Account. Ms M has signed 
separately in this section  to agree  to take PPI as well as signing the overall 
application. 
So I think this indicates what she wanted. Ive considered what Ms M has said about 
where shes signed on the form and possibly this is indicative of a rushed sales  
process. But it remains that Ms M didnt have to sign the form until shed properly  
considered what  she was singing for
Ms M has complained that she may have signed  the form, but that she didnt 
knowingly agree  to take PPI. When our adjudicator pointed out that the evidence 
from FICL  suggested that Ms M contacted them to cancel the policy - therefore 
suggesting that she was aware that she had PPI, Ms M questioned this.
But given that FICLs  records indicate that the request to cancel was made in 2002,  a 
few months after Ms M had taken PPI and Ms M has already told us that she doesnt 
remember everything from the sale, I think its more likely than not that she did 
request to cancel the policy. It would be very unreasonable  to expect, Ms M to clearly 
recall the sale of the PPI or the request to cancel it after well over 15 years ago. 
Its also worth noting that its unlikely  that FICL would  stand  to benefit from randomly 
cancelling a PPI policy after a few months  of premiums having  been paid. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. 
Ref: DRN13564772Its possible the information FICL gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ms M doesnt appear  to have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. 
Ms M also hasnt told us about any existing means  that she had for making  her store  
card repayments if she was made unemployed or unable to work so I think  she could 
have found the policy useful.
So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Ms Ms comments,  but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1356477