K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Lloyds  Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr T bought  the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint  because:
 I think Lloyds made  Mr T aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take it. I 
say this because  he did tick the box on the credit card application form to say that he 
wanted the cover. The box to decline it was immediately below the box that he ticked.  
So I think Mr T wouldnt realised he had a choice about whether or not to buy the PPI.
 Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr T, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. Mr T says he was working on 
a temporary self-employed basis when he bought the policy. But even if he was self-
employed, it wouldnt have been  any more difficult for him to make a successful 
unemployment claim on the policy than it wouldve been  for someone who was 
employed. 
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mr T would  have been affected  by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1618521