K820x#14complaint
Mrs F has complained that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC mis-handled the claim  
that she made on her mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
background
Ive attached a copy  of my provisional  decision from March 2019 which forms part of this 
final decision. In my provisional decision  I set out why I was not minded to uphold  Mrs Fs 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. No responses were submitted.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As none of the parties has provided any 
further evidence  or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
It follows that I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10680262COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs F has complained that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC  mis-handled the claim that she 
made on her mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
background
Mrs F was made  redundant from her job on 17 February 2017 (and received pay in lieu of notice up 
until 17 May 2017, according to her employer).  However, within days of that, she had visited her 
doctor and been signed off as unfit to work. Therefore, as she was not able to actively look for work at 
the time of her claim, she was told by Amtrust that her claim would need  to be made under the 
disability part of the policy rather than the unemployment part.
Mrs F was unable to work due to a complicated  set of issues,  but ultimately her GPs  diagnosis of Mrs 
Fs condition was one of stress. Ultimately Amtrust declined the claim  on the basis  that Mrs Fs 
situation was not covered under the policy terms because she had not been diagnosed by a 
psychiatrist.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F was only four months into a new job when she was made  redundant by her employer. She had 
recently told her employer that she was pregnant and believes that she was discriminated against 
because of this. I dont  need  to focus too much on the circumstances  of Mrs Fs redundancy. Thats  
because, as already explained, Mrs Fs claim was for sickness rather than unemployment. For the 
purposes of this decision Im satisfied that, because Mrs F wasnt actively looking  for work, the claim  
was correctly set up as a disability  claim.
Mrs F has complained that the claim  went on for months with very little information being provided  by 
Amtrust. Mrs F first contacted Amtrust on 1 March  2017 to explain that she had been made  
redundant, so Amtrust sent her an unemployment claim form. Amtrust received the partially 
completed claim form back on 2 August 2018. Because Mrs F mentioned on the form that she was in 
receipt of Employment and Support Allowance and had been signed  off due to fatigue,  it appeared to 
Amtrust that this was now probably a disability claim  rather  than an unemployment claim.  Therefore 
Amtrust then sent Mrs F a disability claim  form to complete. Mrs F rang Amtrust on 25 August 2017 to 
discuss her situation and it was clarified with her that this would indeed  now need to be a disability 
claim.
There was then an extended  period  in which Amtrust was awaiting the necessary  supporting evidence  
for the claim. It wasnt until 4 January 2018 that Mrs Fs GP completed the necessary part of the claim 
form. And the copy that Mrs F emailed to Amtrust wasnt completely legible so it had to ask her to 
send in the original paper  copy,  which it received on 12 January 2018. 
Unfortunately the GP did not provide a description of Mrs Fs condition  and had simply written: no 
significant change post natally.  So at this point Amtrust was still unclear what medical condition it was 
that was preventing Mrs F from working.  Her previous  medical certificates had all said that she was 
signed off due to fatigue but did not give an underlying cause  for that fatigue.
Therefore Amtrust needed  to request more  information from the GP. The GP was slow to respond 
and Amtrust  chased for the information before finally receiving the report on 15 March 2018. This 
Ref: DRN10680263stated that Mrs F was unable  to work  due to anxiety/stress. Due to the information contained within 
the report, Amtrust wrote to Mrs F the same day to let her know that it was declining the claim.
During the rest of March  and April 2018 there was contact between Mrs F and Amtrust as Mrs F tried 
to challenge the decision  to decline her claim and prove that her condition and its treatment did fall 
under the policy terms.
In regard  to mental health issues, the policy states:
What is not covered:
Any psychotic or psychoneurotic illness, mental or nervous disorder or stress or stress  related 
conditions unless the condition has been  diagnosed  by a Community Mental  Health Team  overseen 
by a member of the Royal College of Psychiatrists, or has been investigated and diagnosed by a 
Consultant Psychiatrist.
Mrs Fs medical records for her visit to the GP on 24 February 2017 note: discussed adv re talking 
therapies  contact details for IAPT given.  It seems clear from this that the GP did not refer her to a 
mental health service.  Rather  he gave her information so that she could  self-refer if she wanted to.
Mrs F did in fact refer herself to what she calls the emotional wellbeing service.  She told Amtrust that 
the GP had failed to go back through her records properly  and that she had in fact been treated  by a 
psychiatrist at that service.  Amtrust told Mrs F that if she could provide evidence of that, it was 
possible that her claim would be accepted and that it could be backdated.
Ultimately Mrs F was not able to provide the required evidence to support  her claim. Amtrust itself 
made contact with the emotional  wellbeing service who confirmed that they were not overseen by a 
consultant and that Mrs Fs practitioner was not a psychiatrist. I understand that Mrs F is upset that 
Amtrust contacted this service directly and feels that it was underhand in the manner in which it asked 
questions over the phone. But I havent seen any evidence that the Amtrust adviser didnt explain who 
she was or didnt ask clear  enough questions. It is reasonable for an insurer to make enquiries  to 
satisfy itself that a claim  meets the required terms of the policy.
On 4 April 2018 the emotional  wellbeing service finally  confirmed that they didnt work  with 
consultants and that the practitioners  were  counsellors  or CBT therapists. Further consideration was 
given to this information. Then, on 18 April 2018,  Amtrust  concluded that its actions taken  so far were 
correct, so a second letter was sent to Mrs F declining the claim.
Looking back to when  Mrs F first lost her job in February 2017 to when the claim was finally declined 
in April 2018,  I cant  attribute  any delays to Amtrust. Mrs F didnt return her claim form until August 
2018 (which I assume was due to Mrs Fs pay in lieu of notice and the waiting period  on the policy) 
and then further  enquiries  needed to be made to establish the basis of the claim. By far the biggest 
delay was because  of a very slow response from the GP.
Mrs F has reiterated  that her medical condition is not that which was reported by the GP. The GP had 
said that it was anxiety  and stress at work. Its not that theres  a disagreement between  her and the 
GP about her condition. Rather its down to an administrative oversight because  of the length  of time 
it took the doctor to look at her notes. She says that Amtrust has a duty to investigate  this mistake. 
But an insurer  is entitled  to rely on medical  evidence provided by a policyholders doctor.
Mrs F says her medical records demonstrate that she was suffering from pregnancy related  
depression and anxiety. She says she offered  to provide details of her antenatal and post natal care 
and that her specialist team was never consulted. Having  said that Amtrust was entitled to rely on the 
information provided  by the GP, I dont think Amtrust would necessarily dispute that Mrs Fs 
pregnancy played a part in her illness. Im not sure that Amtrust  would have understood that Mrs F 
was making a distinct point about her claim being specifically for pregnancy related anxiety.  As Mrs F 
has herself said, her issues were complex as they arose out of redundancy, feeling shed  been 
discriminated against and of course  the pregnancy  itself. But, from the evidence Ive seen,  I also dont 
Ref: DRN10680264think that it would have made a difference  to the claim if Amtrust had understood the distinction  that 
Mrs F was trying to draw. Depression  and anxiety, whatever the cause,  was still only covered if 
diagnosis involved a psychiatrist.
Mrs F says that if she had been told at the start that her claim wouldnt succeed - because  neither 
stress nor normal pregnancy related conditions such as fatigue were covered - shed have cancelled 
the policy  and saved herself the monthly premiums. 
But when Mrs F first contacted  Amtrust,  it was to make an unemployment claim  and there would  have 
been no reason for it to provide further advice  to her until it received  her claim  form. Even when 
Amtrust did first receive the claim form, and then had further contact with Mrs F about  her situation, I 
dont think it would have  been right for Amtrust to pre-empt the outcome of the claim prior to having  all 
of the evidence.  As soon as it had enough evidence to fully consider the claim, it wrote to Mrs F 
straight away to decline  it. When Mrs F said she thought her GP had made a mistake and that she 
had been seen by a psychiatrist, Amtrust told her what evidence it would need from her in order to 
review the claim. As soon as it became clear that the treatment Mrs F had received did not meet the 
requirements of the policy terms, Amtrust again let Mrs F know straight away that it was declining the 
claim.
Overall I currently  consider  that the way that Amtrust dealt with Mrs Fs claim was reasonable.  Mrs Fs 
condition was excluded under the terms and conditions of the policy  and so the claim was correctly 
declined.
Mrs F is also unhappy  about  the way that one of Amtrusts advisers  spoke to her over the phone  and 
she feels that she was harassed. She says she was asking the adviser for help about her pregnancy 
related issues  and the GPs mistake and says the adviser  repeatedly refused to answer. Ive listened  
to the call in question. The adviser explains that shes called the emotional  wellbeing service  for 
information. There  is then a discussion  about  what constitutes a community mental health team  and 
Mrs F is adamant  that she has been seen by a psychiatrist. The adviser says she has gone on 
information received from a person at the emotional  wellbeing service, but if that isnt correct  then, 
once the service calls Mrs F back with information, she (the adviser) could check the clinicians 
registration as a psychiatrist. The adviser then explained there  was no time limit to claiming  from 
Amtrusts point of view.
Mrs F had explained that she has no income  and a small baby. The adviser  does try to empathise but, 
naturally enough, Mrs F doesnt feel that the adviser  can truly appreciate her situation.   Mrs F does 
become upset towards the end of the call but I cant attribute this to the conduct of the adviser.  Mrs F 
is being  given the news that her claim  is currently being declined and its this that is upsetting rather 
than any poor service on the part of the adviser.
Mrs F has talked  about  mental health conditions being common  and how, at a vulnerable time in her 
life, she was expecting to be covered. Im very conscious of the extremely difficult situation that Mrs F 
now finds herself in and am sorry for it. But insurance  policies do not cover every eventuality  and all of 
them have exclusions. This decision is only looking  at whether Amtrust was correct  to decline  Mrs Fs 
claim, in line with the policy  terms and conditions. And I currently  find that Amtrust did act reasonably  
in declining the claim.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Fs complaint.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1068026