K821x#15complaint
Ms R says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about one flexible credit  account, and twelve  short-term  instalment loans 
Sunny provided  to Ms R between October  2014 and February  2016.  
Sunny has already made an offer on the flexible credit account, so this hasnt been 
considered. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Rs complaint and thought the loans from loan five onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed, but did agree to uphold loans nine to twelve,  
so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms R could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Ms R could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN13464492Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Rs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan five would most likely  have 
shown that Ms R was having problems managing her money, and so the loan shouldnt have 
been given.
And I agree. Had Sunny completed a proportionate check on Ms R before providing her with 
loan five, it wouldve  seen  that she was already making repayments to a debt collection  
agency and appeared  to be having  problems  managing her money. So Sunny shouldve  
realised that Ms R was not in a position  to sustainably manage  to repay further  loans and 
shouldnt have continued the lending relationship  at this point.  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms R, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Rs case, I think that this point  was reached by 
loan six. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Ms R was not managing  to repay  their 
loans sustainably. Ms R had taken out six loans within ten months  and Ms R had 
been indebted to Sunny for nearly  the entire  time. So Sunny ought to have realised it 
was more likely than not Ms R was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying her previous  loan was leaving in his finances and that Ms Rs indebtedness  
was increasing unsustainably.
From  loan six onwards Ms R was provided with a new loan within weeks  of settling a 
previous one. 
Ms R wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan thirteen 
was taken out sixteen months  after Ms Rs first. Ms R had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
I think that Ms R lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Rs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
Ref: DRN13464493the number  of loans and the length of time over which Ms R borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Ms Rs ability to access mainstream credit  and so 
kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loan five and loan six onwards and Sunny should 
put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms R paid on loan five onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan five from Ms Rs credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards  means  any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So, all entries  about  loan six onwards  should be removed 
from Ms Rs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Ms R a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Rs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1346449