K822xcomplaint
Mr O has complained Nationwide Building  Society hasnt provided sufficient compensation 
after lodging an adverse marker on his credit record when he didnt have an account with 
them.
background
Mr O acted as a guarantor for a family  members  rent agreement. He was told he couldnt be 
accepted because of an adverse marker on his credit record. After checking  his record  Mr O 
saw this related  to a current account  with Nationwide.
He complained to Nationwide as hed never  opened  an account with them.  They accepted  
this was the case and offered him £50 compensation for the inconvenience.
Mr O didnt believe this reflected what had happened and brought  his complaint  to the 
ombudsman service. He also told our investigator  hed been paying a subscription to a credit  
record check for 10 months at £14.99 a month.
Nationwide initially offered to pay a further £150.  They then increased this by a further £100 
to include compensation for the credit  checks Mr O was paying for. After reviewing the 
evidence, our investigator felt this was fair overall.
Mr O didnt agree. He felt thered been  considerable reputational damage which  he didnt 
believe £300  covered. Mr O was asked if there  was any additional evidence he wanted to 
provide to show the impact on him. Mr O confirmed  he felt this was because of his 
profession.
Mr Os complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute Nationwide  opened  an account  in Mr Os name. Somebody else opened 
this account, using Mr Os details and former address, in May 2017. The account was closed 
just three  months  later.
Its more than likely this was done  using information  that had been found  at Mr Os former 
address. I know Mr O has raised  concerns about how this could have  happened  without him 
being aware and whether Nationwide followed appropriate procedures.  From  the evidence  
Ive seen I believe they did. They no longer hold the ID information  they checked  but I see no 
reason to believe they didnt do the normal checks carried out when opening  an account.
But in any case Nationwide never disputed Mr Os statement hed not opened this account. 
They immediately confirmed theyd update  his credit  record to delete  the account  and 
offered him £50.
Although theyd been pursuing the person  whod  opened the account for repayment, I dont 
believe this has had any impact on Mr O as Nationwide werent  using Mr Os personal 
Ref: DRN16305002details to do this. So Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr O was getting any calls from 
Nationwide about  the account  being in debt.
But I agree  there was an impact on his credit  record.  Mr O believes he was turned down as a 
guarantor because of this. This is certainly  likely. It inevitably takes  time for a credit record  to 
be updated but Ive not seen anything which suggests Nationwide didnt act as soon as Mr O 
notified them  the account wasnt  his. I know Nationwide  took action to help protect  Mr O in 
the future  by noting on the industry fraud database  that hed been a victim of fraud.
The main  thing for me to consider is whether the compensation now on offer is fair and 
reasonable. Nationwide paid Mr O £50 in December 2018. And has now offered a further 
£250 to compensate him for what has happened and to repay his costs  of checking his credit 
record. Ive seen evidence which shows Mr O has paid nearly £150 for this service  ten 
months at £14.99  a month. So Nationwide  are reimbursing him for his costs and offering a 
total of £150 for the inconvenience caused.
I appreciate Mr O was rejected as a guarantor. This certainly had an impact  but he would 
have had an opportunity to explain  what and why this had happened. I dont agree this had 
any major  reputational  damage as Mr O was only alerted to the account with Nationwide 
when he was rejected  as a guarantor. Mr O believes compensation should be in the 
thousands but Ive seen  nothing which would support such  a generous  figure. Overall 
I believe Nationwides offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mr O a further £250 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1630500