K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which 
Mr B and Miss O say National Westminster Bank plc (NatWest) mis-sold  to them.  
background
The policy was sold in 1998. It covered Mr B in the event of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. Miss O wasnt covered.
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this complaint  and recommended that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Mr B and Miss O disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Mr B and Miss Os central points of complaint are that they think  the MPPI was only of use 
to NatWest, not them. They also say that because Mr B had a good job, with good benefits, 
the policy wasnt something that they needed.
So theres no dispute that the policy was sold and that Mr B and Miss O were aware it had 
been set up. I note Mr B signed  a direct debit instruction in July 1998 to have the monthly 
premium transferred. This was headed MORTGAGE REPAYMENTS PROTECTOR  
INSURANCE and so I think it would have  been clear what  the cover was for. The fact they 
had chosen to have cover for Mr B was reiterated  in the mortgage  offer,  a document I 
assume Mr B and Miss O would have wanted  to read carefully.
So I think theres strong and compelling  evidence they wanted MPPI, covering Mr B.
Businesses that recommended MPPI as part of an advised  sale had an additional 
responsibility to ensure  it was right for the consumers particular circumstances. Non-
advised sales needed only to ensure  the information provided  was clear enough for the 
consumers themselves to make a decision about  whether  or not they wanted MPPI.
Using what I know about how NatWest  generally sold mortgages  at the time, I dont think 
NatWest provided an advised sale. But I dont think the type of sale matters much  to this 
case, because  I think the policy was suitable  anyway.
This is because I think Mr B was eligible for the cover  and not caught by any of the 
exclusions we sometimes see in these  types  of policy. The cost of the policy seems 
affordable. Looking at their circumstances, I can also see why only Mr B was covered and 
why Miss O wasnt  named  on the policy.
Mr B said his job at the time came with good  sick pay and other benefits. Ive thought about 
this and I understand the point thats  being made. But Im afraid it doesnt necessarily mean  
the policy wasnt of use. I think  their mortgage would have been an important  and a long-
Ref: DRN14305222term financial commitment for them and importantly, one which  was secured against their 
home. So I think the consequences of not being able to keep up payments if their income 
suddenly dropped, could have been serious. 
The MPPI on the other hand, was there to help in times of financial uncertainty  and to 
provide support in the event of Mr B not being  able to work or losing his job. It wouldve paid 
a monthly benefit  of around £400 for up to 12 months, in the event  of a successful claim. 
This wouldve been in addition to any other  means  Mr B and Miss O already had in place. 
So Im afraid  I dont agree that the cover was of use only to the bank.
I think the MPPI was suitable in their situation. 
NatWest also needed to provide information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading. I cant 
say that NatWest did everything right or that it told Mr B and Miss O everything  it should 
have. But I can see the cost was clearly disclosed  to them  and I think Mr B and Miss O 
wouldve been given  something explaining what  and who the policy  covered.  NatWest sent 
me a copy  of the information Mr B and Miss O were given.
I therefore dont  think this policy was mis-sold. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr B and Miss O paid on their policy and whether 
NatWest treated them fairly. NatWest has told us that the commission for the policy  was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has been 
working this out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  the commission  was 
less than half the cost of the policy. As thats  the case, I dont think NatWest  needed  to tell 
them about  the commission and so I dont  think it treated them  unfairly. This means it 
doesnt need to pay Mr B and Miss O back any of the commission they paid for the MPPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  
National Westminster Bank plc to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B and Miss O 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1430522