K820x#14complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about the sale of a property  held in his self invested  personal  pension 
(SIPP) with Suffolk Life Pensions Limited  (Suffolk  Life).  Mr L says Suffolk Life didnt  provide  
him with the propertys  valuation and as a result he agreed to the sale of his share  of the 
property without having complete information.  
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ls complaint. She issued  her view on 7 September 
2018. It included  a summary of what had happened. Ive repeated  that here.
Mr L and four former  colleagues  had purchased, using their pension  funds  to do so, a 
commercial property. Mr L had since taken a new job and intended to sell his share of the 
property before transferring the value  of his SIPP to the scheme offered by his new 
employer.
Two of his former colleagues agreed to purchase  the additional share of the property. To 
help facilitate that a single  financial adviser  was hired, with the cost to be shared between all 
the parties. That adviser was appointed as adviser  of record on the pension  plan. In 
completing the form that Suffolk Life required Mr L authorised Suffolk  Life to:
release information  in respect of all their plans  to their nominated  adviser
accept investment instructions from the adviser  in respect of all of their plans
pay the charges  specified from their SIPP fund, to their adviser
And in the signed declaration the form said:
I accept that Suffolk Life will correspond with my adviser shown in section 2 unless I give 
written notice to the contrary.
I authorise Suffolk Life to accept investment and all other  instructions  in relation to any of the 
plans within  my SIPPs at Suffolk Life from the adviser shown in section 2, unless and until I 
inform Suffolk Life in writing to the contrary.
In order to re-organise the property holding Suffolk Life needed to get an updated valuation 
of the property. A surveyor  was engaged to do that. The surveyors report showed  the 
current valuation of the property as being  £210,000. That report was produced in July 2015  
and sent to Suffolk Life and Mr Ls adviser in the same month.
Ref: DRN14362502The report  was provided to Suffolk  Life and to Mr Ls financial  adviser  on the same  email. 
Suffolk Life didnt provide  Mr L with a copy.  
Each of the property  holders signed a form agreeing to the sale and purchase of the property 
and this was provided  to Suffolk Life. The figure  quoted on that form for the property value  
was over £500,000.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She agreed that Suffolk Life could have sent Mr 
L a copy of the property  valuation but she didnt think  Suffolk Life was obliged to do that  Mr 
L had authorised  Suffolk Life to correspond with his adviser. Suffolk Life knew that Mr L had 
an adviser and that the adviser  had seen the valuation. Suffolk Life would have reasonably 
thought the adviser would relay all relevant information to Mr L.  
The adjudicator also noted that the property reorganisations wasnt completed until May 
2016, some  six months after Mr L had signed the transfer documentation.  So Mr L had the 
opportunity to check the valuation.  And  there was nothing to suggest he didnt get the 
correct value (albeit less than hed expected) for his share of the property  which hed 
instructed Suffolk  Life to sell. 
The adjudicator also said that Suffolk  Life did agree to a second  valuation and when that 
came back  at the same value Suffolk Life offered to reverse  the property reorganisation 
(although ultimately  that wasnt possible). Suffolk  Life did take a long time to complete its 
investigation into Mr Ls complaint. But that was understandable in the circumstances and 
when so many parties were involved.
In reply Mr L said he was confused by some of what the adjudicator had said. She clarified  
how what shed said related to the financial adviser  Mr L and the other parties  had instructed 
(and who Mr L has also complained about). The adjudicator explained that a financial 
adviser had been  appointed and Suffolk  Life had been authorised to communicate  with the 
adviser on Mr Ls behalf. So (and notwithstanding that the agreement between Mr L and the 
financial adviser may have been limited)  she thought  Suffolk Life hadnt done anything  
wrong by communicating with the adviser  as agreed. 
Mr L raised some further points which the adjudicator looked into. She then wrote again  to 
Mr L on 1 February 2019 saying she still didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld.  
Amongst other things she said Suffolk Life had no record  of any request  from Mr L to update 
him as to any changes  to the property valuation.  And she explained why the statement 
Suffolk Life has sent Mr L after the revised  valuation had been produced didnt reflect the 
updated figure. 
Mr L didnt accept that Suffolk Life hadnt done anything  wrong  and so the complaint has 
been referred to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr L will be disappointed. But, like the adjudicator, I dont think the complaint should  
be upheld. I agree with the reasons the adjudicator gave. I dont have much to add. 
Ref: DRN14362503I dont disagree with Mr L that if Suffolk Life had sent him a copy of the valuation  then and 
confusion or dispute  could  have  been avoided. And there then would  have been  no 
argument as to whether Mr L would have gone ahead  or not. What  he decided  to do would 
have been based on a complete understanding of the position and, importantly, an accurate 
valuation for the property  and the knowledge  that the value attributed to it in the statements 
wasnt a true reflection of the current market price. 
But I cant say that Suffolk  Life did anything wrong in not sending  Mr L a copy of the 
valuation. The point  is that Suffolk  Life wasnt required to send Mr L the valuation  direct.  
Hed agreed with Suffolk  Life how things  would be progressed  given  that he had an adviser 
in place. Suffolk Life kept to that agreement. 
I dont see that I can say that Suffolk  Life failed to do something  and should be responsible 
for any consequences of that  when it hadnt  acted other than in accordance with its 
agreement with Mr L and the other parties involved.
It follows that I dont think Mr Ls complaint against Suffolk Life (and Ive considered 
elsewhere the advisers part in the matter) should be upheld.  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1436250