K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) did not pay compensation for a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) complaint directly to him after he was discharged from 
a protected trust deed. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  in which I said I didnt think  the complaint should  
be upheld. That provisional  decision  is attached and it forms part of my final decision.  
Both parties  have responded  to say they have nothing further to add. I am grateful to them  
both for responding in advance of the deadline.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me with any further  information or evidence to consider, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings.  I am sorry to disappoint Mr T, but for the 
reasons set out below, I havent  upheld  his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Its fair for Capital One (Europe) plc to 
use Mr Ts PPI commission compensation to reduce  the monies owed and left unpaid when 
Mr Ts trust deed  came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman 
Copy of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr T complains that Capital One (Europe)  plc (Capital One)  did not pay compensation for a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) complaint directly to him after he was discharged  from a protected trust 
deed. 
Ref: DRN17093932background
PPI was sold to Mr T alongside a credit card in or around 2008. In 2011,  it appears he ran into some 
financial difficulties and he granted a trust deed to his creditors. This was a protected  trust deed  and 
is a form of insolvency.  The then outstanding balance  of approximately £5,000 on Mr Ts Capital One 
card was included. Mr T was discharged from that protected trust deed in May 2014. 
It appears that Mr T complained that PPI was mis-sold  in or around 2012 and that Capital One 
rejected that complaint. In or around December  2017, Mr T made a further complaint about his Capital 
One card.   The reason for this complaint was that Mr T was unhappy  about  the level of commission  
Capital One had been paid in respect of his PPI premiums. 
Capital One agreed that it had received a high level of commission from Mr Ts PPI premiums. It also 
accepted that it should have told Mr T about that. It agreed  to make a redress payment. It calculated 
that the compensation in Mr Ts case was £324.71.  However, it decided that rather than pay the 
compensation to Mr T, it would use that money to reduce  the balance it said was outstanding  on Mr 
Ts credit  card.  This is called offsetting.  
Mr T was not happy with the way Capital  One paid his compensation  and he complained to this 
service. Our adjudicator  considered the complaint and said that he thought Capital One had acted  
fairly when it offset  Mr Ts compensation against the amount it said he owed. 
I can see that Mr T strongly disagreed with our adjudicators view. His argument  was that when  he 
was discharged from the trust deed, his debt was written off and he no longer had an outstanding 
balance. He sent in some information from the trustee to show that the Capital One debt had been 
included in the trust deed.  He felt strongly that the compensation should be paid directly to him. 
I can see that Mr Ts complaint has been with this service  for some while now. I am grateful to Mr T 
for his patience whilst we have  considered the issues that have arisen in his case. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  I want to reassure  Mr T that Im aware that a trust deed is different to 
an individual voluntary  arrangement. In considering his complaint, Ive very carefully  considered the 
rules that apply to trust deeds. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr T, but my provisional  view is that this complaint should not be upheld.  
Ill explain why below. 
As I said above, the outcome of this complaint depends upon what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances.  When considering  what  is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable,  
I have to take account of the rules set by the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA).  DISP 3.6.4 R of the 
FCA Handbook (which is available online)  requires  me to take the following into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
Ref: DRN17093933Capital One has already agreed that it didnt  tell Mr T about the high level of commission it received 
from his PPI premiums. So I need to decide whether  its fair and reasonable for Capital One to use 
the resulting PPI compensation to reduce the credit card balance that 
Mr T says was written  off after the trust deed was discharged (or came to an end). 
First of all, Ive considered  particularly what the law says about protected trust deeds. In recent years 
there have  been a number of cases looking at what happens to PPI compensation  after a protected 
trust deed comes to an end. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom considered the 
effect of a discharged  trust deed following a final distribution by the trustee. In that case, the 
discharge was held to terminate the trust which  meant that any unrealised assets were returned to the 
debtor  including the PPI compensation  that no one had known  about at the time.  In other words,  
the Supreme Court said that the PPI compensation should not be paid to the trustees. It said it should 
be paid to the consumer.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2017] SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court 
considered whether The Royal  Bank of Scotland (RBS)  could offset PPI compensation  against an 
outstanding balance when a trust deed  came to an end. The terms of the trust deed in this case 
meant RBS had, in effect, agreed  that the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt  later re-open 
the debt to offset the PPI compensation (I understand RBS has appealed this decision,  so the 
outcome may change).
So I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, 
and on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are essentially the same 
as those in this case, then Capital One couldnt successfully argue  in court that it should  be allowed to 
offset the compensation in Mr Ts case.  
But as I said above, when Im deciding  whats fair and reasonable,  I have to consider a number  of 
things  not just the relevant  case law. And I also have to consider  whats fair for both parties. I 
appreciate that Capital  One cant  now chase Mr T in court for the money  that he owed when  he 
entered into the trust deed. But I can see from the evidence Capital One has provided that Mr T has 
still borrowed over £3,500 more than he repaid on his credit card. Its likely that wont now ever be 
repaid. 
I accept that Mr T has been  discharged from the trust deed and that the case law says those debts 
dont exist anymore.  But in reality, Mr T has still had the benefit of over £3,500 from Capital  One that 
he doesnt have to pay back.  In those circumstances, I dont think  it would be fair to tell Capital  One 
to pay Mr Ts compensation  directly  to him. The fact that Mr Ts trust deed had come to an end before 
this offer of PPI compensation was made doesnt, in my current view, make a difference  to what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances  here. I cant reasonably say its fair for Capital One to repay the 
PPI compensation directly to Mr T when  he doesnt now need  to pay back the much bigger amount he 
borrowed. 
So it follows from what Ive said that I think its fair for Capital One to use the PPI compensation  its 
offered to reduce  the outstanding monies owed  and left unpaid following  the closure  of Mr Ts 
protected trust deed.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further information or evidence provided  by the parties, Im not intending to uphold  this 
complaint. I dont plan to ask Capital One (Europe)  plc to do anything more to put things right.
Im currently  minded to decide that its fair for Capital One (Europe) plc to use Mr Ts compensation to 
reduce the amount he owed and didnt repay when  his trust deed came to an end. 
Ref: DRN17093934I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 18 
October 2019, after which  I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1709393