K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold him critical illness  and life cover as 
part of a protection package sold alongside  his mortgage.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision of 
May 2019. Ive attached a copy here because this forms part of this final decision. In my 
provisional decision I explained why I was minded to not uphold Mr Ds complaint and I 
invited both parties to let me have anything  they thought was relevant  in response.
BoS said it accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mr D replied and repeated the points and arguments he set out in response to the 
adjudicators findings  - including referring to his separate complaint about the PPI element  of 
his mortgage protection  plan, which has already been determined.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite my best efforts to make it clear that this complaint is only about what  happened  in 
2010 when Mr D took out a new critical illness and life cover plan, Mr D has continued to 
make arguments and discuss events which were considered as part of his separate 
complaint, which  weve  already  determined and is now closed.
Because I dont feel that I can explain things any differently and as Ive not been given 
anything new to consider, I see no reason to expand  on or depart from my reasoning  or the 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided to not uphold this 
complaint, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13939142copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him critical  illness and life cover as part of a 
protection package sold alongside his mortgage.
background
I feel it is necessary  to clarify the circumstances  leading up to this complaint  it appears to me there 
is some confusion on the part of Mr D in understanding what  policies he has taken out and when and 
what this particular complaint is about.
Mr D first took out his mortgage in 2007. This was a joint mortgage with his partner. At this time Mr D 
and his partner took out a joint Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP), which included different  
elements of cover: Payment Protection Insurance (PPI), life cover  as well as critical illness cover. 
Because Mr D and his partner separated, in 2010 Mr D took over the mortgage  himself. This was all 
carried out during a branch meeting. BoS records indicate that, at this point Mr D continued  with the 
PPI element of the existing  protection plan. But because the critical illness  and life cover  parts of the 
plan didnt exactly match the term of the newly  formed  sole mortgage  there was shortfall - these 
were cancelled  and Mr D took out a new plan.
This new plan cost around £13 a month with a sum assured  of £75,000 and with a term matching  that 
of the mortgage.
This meant  Mr D had two plans for a period of time  one with just PPI providing accident, sickness 
and unemployment and the other with critical  illness  and life cover.  Mr D subsequently cancelled the 
PPI protection plan leaving just the critical illness and life cover plan set up in 2010.
BoS says the mortgage account ended in 2011 when  the mortgage was repaid.
For the avoidance  of doubt, Mr D has complained about the PPI part of the original  protection plan 
and this has already been considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service (under  a separate  
complaint and reference)  and has been determined by way of a Final  Decision by an ombudsman  
Mr D has had our last word  on this matter. Im therefore not going to consider this or comment on it 
further within  this complaint  despite Mr D continuing to make reference to PPI  this complaint is only 
about what happened in 2010 when Mr D took out the new critical illness and life cover plan.
The adjudicator didnt uphold  this complaint. She said she thought given Mr Ds circumstances at the 
time in 2010,  a critical illness and life cover policy wasnt unsuitable. She said shed thought  about the 
other life policy Mr D referred to during the course of his complaint. But she said the evidence 
indicated this policy started three years later in 2013,  so it wasnt relevant  to her consideration about 
what happened in 2010.  
Mr D disagrees.  In summary he says he didnt  need the cover - he was fit and healthy with good 
employee benefits  including sick pay and death-in-service  cover. 
He also says he already  had life cover elsewhere.  He says the other cover didnt start in 2013 as the 
adjudicator said  this is the date it was taken over from another insurer.
The matter has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN13939143I firstly hope setting out the background to the circumstances leading up to this complaint has been 
helpful for Mr D. His evidence and testimony on this complaint at times seems to relate  to events  in 
2007. 
For example I can see Mr D has said he was told or it was implied  he had to have the policy to get the 
mortgage. But in 2010 he already had the mortgage   it was simply a transfer of equity.  As I said 
above, this complaint is only about what happened  in 2010.
It does not appear  to be in dispute that BoS advised Mr D during the meeting in 2010 and 
recommended he take out the cover. This means BoS had to ensure  the cover was right or suitable 
for Mr D. And it had to give him enough clear  and timely  information about the cover so Mr D could 
decide if he wanted to go ahead with the recommendation. Ive kept this in mind  in my consideration 
of the complaint.
While theres not enough  evidence to tell me whether BoS fairly and reasonably took all the steps it 
needed to establish suitability,  the evidence  suggests BoS took some steps.  So while there might 
have been failings in the advice process, in any event, I dont  think it was wrong  for BoS to 
recommend the cover.
BoS has provided a copy of a Demands and Needs  letter, which appears to have been sent to Mr D 
as a record of the meeting  it had with him. I can see here Mr D was asked questions about his 
existing means in relation to replacement income  both in terms of disability and unemployment  
and his need  for life and critical illness  cover.  While no need was identified  for disability and 
unemployment, a need for life and critical illness  was recorded as Yes .
The letter went on to say that the adviser recommended life and critical illness cover on a decreasing 
term basis because Mr Ds mortgage would reduce  over time as he made  repayments towards to it  
it was a repayment mortgage.
I can also see from separate records that Mr D was asked  some health questions  including whether 
hed seen a doctor. Theres nothing here to indicate Mr D wasnt in good health at the time.
BoS has also provided internal records which explain  why Mr D was taking out the new plan  it says 
that the existing cover he had jointly with his ex-partner  didnt match the term of the newly  arranged 
sole mortgage,  so the old plan was cancelled  and Mr D was quoted for a new plan. It records that Mr 
D was happy and accepted  this with no changes to his health from the last policy.
Ive thought very carefully about whether the recommendation for Mr D to take out life and critical 
illness cover  was suitable  given his circumstances at the time. And as I said above, on balance,  I 
think it was. I say this because:
Mr D was eligible  he qualified  for the cover  and the benefits
Mr D was single  hed recently separated from his partner. On the one hand this might suggest  
he didnt have  an automatic  need for life cover as its not apparent there was another  party who 
was either financially dependent on or connected to him. But on the other hand Im mindful  that 
Mr D was taking out borrowing secured on his home and for not an inconsiderable sum.  The long-
term nature of the debt, also meant is was likely  Mr Ds circumstances  could  change  over time. 
And being young, the cost of life cover at this point didnt  represent a significant amount of Mr Ds 
income or budget  in fact I think the cost could reasonably be considered low. So taking all of 
this into account I dont think it was wrong for BoS to recommend the cover.
Mr D says he was fit and young and didnt  need the cover.  But the purpose of the cover was to 
have something in place in case the worst happened. And the fact Mr D was fit and in good  health 
meant he wasnt affected by any key limitations  or exclusions around existing medical conditions, 
which might otherwise have made the policy unsuitable for him. So the fact Mr D was healthy 
didnt mean  the policy wasnt appropriate for him.
Ref: DRN13939144Mr D says he had death-in-service benefit through work.  And Ive thought  about this. But as I said 
above, given the mortgage  was being taken over many  years, circumstances can change over 
time meaning Mr Ds need for cover might  increase or a change of job might mean  this benefit 
falls away. So I think the existence of this type of benefit didnt make the recommendation 
unsuitable.
I can see Mr D has said he had other cover  in place in the form of a policy his father  had taken  
out and hes provided some  information about it. I can also see that Mr D says the policy was 
taken out before the start date shown on the schedule  this insurer took it on from a previous  
one. However, the start date of 2013 is clear on the policy information Mr D has given us. And the 
Demands and Needs form I referred to earlier which  captured some information discussed with 
Mr D during his branch meeting in 2010, only records his jointly held TMPP  policy with his ex-
partner as existing cover  theres nothing about any other  policies. So in light of this, Im not 
currently persuaded Mr D had additional life cover in place which wouldve made  this 
recommendation unsuitable at the time in 2010.
Mr D has made  reference to his father being  in a position  to pay off his mortgage if anything  
happened. But again I dont think  a reliance on family  is sufficient reason to warrant the 
recommendation for cover  unsuitable. Family  help cannot  always be guaranteed when its needed 
 particularly given the long-term nature of Mr Ds mortgage.
turning to the critical illness cover  I think this was suitable for Mr D. It would have helped  him out 
if he became seriously  ill and couldnt work  paying out a lump  sum benefit.  Again, given Mr Ds 
age this element of the cover was relatively  inexpensive for the amount of benefit it provided and 
it was affordable for him.
Turning to the information  Mr D received about the policy - the evidence doesnt tell me that Mr D 
received all of the information about the recommended cover in a timely fashion that he needed to 
make an informed  decision  about  it. For example  I cant see the significant exclusions and limitations  
of cover were clearly brought to his attention. But for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont think 
better information from BoS would  have  changed  Mr Ds mind about  things  I think hed have still 
gone ahead and taken  the policy  out.
So overall, for the reasons Ive set out above  I dont  think Mr Ds decision  to take out the policy would  
have been any different  had BoS better advised and informed him. So I am not persuaded it would  be 
fair and reasonable in those circumstances to conclude BoS should compensate Mr D, as that would  
put him in a better position  than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, Ive provisionally decided that Mr D has not lost out as a result of taking out 
TMPP  life and critical illness cover - in connection with his mortgage in 2010,  so I dont intend to 
make an award in favour of Mr D.
Both parties should now let me have anything  they want me to consider before I make my Final  
Decision.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1393914