K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  a boiler  and servicing agreement financed  by a conditional  
sale agreement with A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP trading as A Shade  Greener (ASG). 
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with various  aspects  of the installation  of the boiler and the 
service they received from ASG.
background
The facts  of the case are well known to all parties. So, Ill summarise here rather than go into 
full detail.
Mr and Mrs C have complained about a number  of problems with ASG and the boiler.  They 
say:
The initial installation wasnt carried out properly  which led to various  issues  with the 
system. 
A plastic tank was left in the attic which they expected to be removed. 
ASG took too long to attend  when  called out. 
The boiler warranty has moved to a new provider which they are unhappy with. 
Their direct debit repayments have been increased, which they didnt agree to. 
ASG put a charge on their property, which they never knew  about.
In January 2014 Mr and Mrs C signed up to a conditional sale agreement with ASG.  This 
included finance  for both a boiler with installation and a maintenance and service package. 
Later the same month the boiler was installed and ASG  says a power flush  was performed 
as part of the installation.
Mr and Mrs C say they began to have issues with the boiler  shortly  after it was installed.  An 
ASG engineer was called out to their property around two weeks  after the installation, as 
Mr and Mrs C could smell gas. ASG said their engineer found no fault with the boiler.
Over the next few years Mr and Mrs C say they had various problems with the boiler 
including intermittent hot water and issues with the radiators. ASG attended the property 
several times. 
In March 2017 ASG  says the boiler was serviced  and there was found to be debris in the 
system. It says the attending engineer cleaned components in the boiler  as a gesture of 
goodwill.
In August  2017  ASG were called out to look at a fault. It says the fault was due to debris - 
and components and parts were cleaned.
In January 2018 ASG attended again. A remedial sheet/advisory notice  says the hot water  
was fluctuating and ASG  Took tf1 filter out to clean and heat plate both full of debris. 
Mr and Mrs C were charged  £60 for this visit. ASG said the work wasnt covered  under the 
service agreement due to the amount  of debris in the system.
Ref: DRN18936042In February 2018,  a third party plumber, who Ill refer to as W, attended  the property to look 
at the boiler. W said there were several  issues with the boiler. W said:
A magnetic filter was leaking and full of sludge. 
An air release  vent had been  leaking. 
A domestic heat exchanger could be blocked and needed to be removed  and 
flushed. 
The filling  loop leaked when filled. 
The size of the existing pipework in the property could cause issues with the system 
and W recommended these were replaced.
In March 2018 ASG  attended the property to service the boiler. Mr and Mrs C say they told 
the engineer about the issues W raised. But, Mr and Mrs C say ASG  told them there  were  no 
problems with the system.  And they said they were  told the filling loop was fixed. A gas 
safety inspection  was also carried out by ASG at this point. This noted the boiler was 
inspected and had no issues.
In March 2018 W attended  and fitted new pipes to the system and performed a power flush.  
They also noted  the filling loop leaking again.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to ASG and it issued  its final response letter. It said only one 
boiler was put in per day by the installers, so the installation wasnt rushed. It said a power 
flush and clean was performed and that any further  power flush  needed later was entirely 
due to the age of Mr and Mrs Cs radiators. It said no fault was found  at the initial  call out 
when Mr and Mrs C said they could  smell gas. It said Mr and Mrs C hadnt provided any 
details from the independent  engineer. And it said the cleaning ASG  engineers  did, that 
Mr and Mrs C paid for, was needed  because of problems with the existing pipework and was 
not covered under warranty.
Our service began to investigate the case. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said 
hed considered testimony from W and he thought  it was likely there was either no power  
flush performed, or it was carried  out poorly, when the boiler  was installed. He said this 
meant the installation wasnt  carried out with reasonable skill and care,  which he thought 
was a breach  of contract.
Our investigator said that he didnt think there  was an issue with the warranty  as this wasnt 
part of the finance agreement and was held with the manufacturer rather  than with ASG. He 
said he thought  it wasnt made clear  enough that a charge would be put on the property,  but 
he didnt think this wouldve made a difference to Mr and Mrs Cs decision to go ahead  with 
the agreement.
To put things right, our investigator said he thought it would  be reasonable for ASG to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs C for some of the costs incurred from W. He said they should be 
reimbursed for the cost they paid ASG  for the visit in January 2018.  And, he thought ASG 
should pay Mr and Mrs C £200 to reflect the distress  and inconvenience ASG  caused.
After hed issued  his initial view, our investigator also said he thought  it was clear from the 
agreement that Mr and Mrs Cs direct  debit repayments would increase.
Ref: DRN18936043Mr and Mrs C agreed  with our investigators  outcome.  ASG  did not. It made various  points, 
including that if a power flush hadnt been  completed the problems with the boiler wouldve 
appeared much earlier. It said no flushing method would remove all debris.  It said it doubted 
the reliability of the evidence from W. It said the tank may have been left in the attic because 
of the size, but either way, it said on a form Mr and Mrs C signed they didnt authorise its 
removal.
The case  was then passed for an ombudsmans  decision. I sent Mr and Mrs C a provisional 
decision on 27 August  2020. Ive included  my findings below:
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the installation and various aspects of goods  and services  
supplied and funded by a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated product, so this 
service can investigate the complaint against  ASG.
Mr and Mrs C have made various complaints about ASG, so Ill consider each  of these in 
turn.
When thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law. The Supply 
of Goods and Services Act 1982 is relevant to this complaint. This says that the supplier 
(ASG) needed to carry out the service provided to Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and 
skill. So, Ill consider  if I think this was the case when ASG installed and maintained 
Mr and Mrs Cs boiler.
Boiler installation and maintenance
Mr and Mrs C have complained about various  issues with the boiler. They said they dont 
believe the boiler was installed correctly which has led to problems later on.
One of the key things I need  to consider  in this case is whether I think  a power flush  was 
properly performed when Mr and Mrs Cs boiler was installed. I say this as a power flush 
formed part of the boiler replacement agreement  that Mr and Mrs C signed. I also looked  up 
the installation and service instructions for what appears to be Mr and Mrs Cs boiler. These 
say the heating system  should be flushed  as part of the installation. On the boiler 
manufacturers website, it says Power flushing should also be performed when installing a 
new boiler. And, under the Building Regulations  the Domestic  Building Services  
Compliance Guide  also says a heating system should be flushed before a new boiler is 
installed.
So, it follows  that if the system wasnt properly flushed, I may consider this to mean the 
installation was done without reasonable care and skill.
Ive considered what evidence is available from the time. ASG  has provided some  testimony  
about the process carried out. And, its provided a copy of a flushing  certificate.  This says 
that a power flush was completed on 29 January 2014. And its been signed  by Mr C under 
the statement  I confirm the above heating system was flushed and treated in accordance  
with BS5793 using (brand)  flushing method statements.
So, it appears Mr C signed  to agree a power flush was carried out on the day the boiler was 
installed. But, I dont  think this form tells the whole story. Ive considered whether an average  
person who didnt work in the field would  understand what a power flush was, or how it was 
performed - and I dont  think its likely  they would. And I certainly  dont think  they would 
understand what BS5793 or (brand) flushing  method statements meant.  
Ref: DRN18936044Ive also considered that Mr and Mrs C specifically told us they were unaware of what the 
procedure involved.  So, I dont think I can rely on this signed form to say a power  flush 
definitely took place  or that it was properly carried out.
Ive considered at what point in time issues appeared with the system following the 
installation. I understand ASG were called out several times  by Mr and Mrs C, firstly around 
two weeks after the installation  but it appears no issue was found  at this time. Looking  at 
the history of ASG  attending Mr and Mrs Cs property,  it appears that there  was debris  in the 
system that required cleaning in March  2017   just over three years since  the boiler  was 
installed.
Ive also considered what work W did to the boiler. W provided some testimony to this 
service about what happened  and the issues at the time. So, Ive thought  about  what  W said.
In February 2018  W attended  and cleaned out the domestic heat exchanger and replaced 
the magnetic filter which they said was leaking.  They say they pointed  out to Mr and Mrs C 
that a filling  loop was leaking and suggested  they tell the ASG  engineer  who was due to 
attend in the next few days. They  also recommended a power flush and said there could  be 
issues with blockages in the pipes due to the size - and recommended  a re-pipe. W said this 
shouldve been  noted on the initial site survey.
Ws testimony  said:
I asked to have a look at the boiler  and found the (brand) magnetic filter leaking,  and when 
opened saw it full of sludge, which if properly flushed to boiler manufacturers  (sic) 
instructions wouldnt  have so much  sludge in the filter 
Having had a look inside the boiler I noticed the air release vent had been leaking and the 
water released was rusty  due to not being  flushed
on finishing  the flush  my flush filter was completely full (one of the worst systems I have 
seen in a long time).
In my opinion the company  which  installed the boiler has not fulfilled  the contract which  the 
customer agreed to, as they should  not have had the problems with a boiler of the age it is
I think its quite clear  from Ws comments that they believe the installation  wasnt performed 
with reasonable  care and skill. Ive thought about this, along with the timeline  of events. I 
think its clear  Ws opinion here is that had a power  flush been performed properly on 
installation, issues wouldnt have arisen  with Mr and Mrs Cs boiler so soon. And, I dont 
think parts  wouldve required cleaning as regularly. Thinking about what the manufacturer  of 
the boiler said about requiring a flush before installation  and the Building  Regulations,  Im 
satisfied this means the installation was not carried  out with reasonable care and skill.
Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs Cs existing pipework couldve caused the issues they 
have experienced rather  than an issue with the installation. Ive considered that W 
recommended a re-pipe of their system   saying I recommended  a power flush but there  
could be issues with blockages in the pipe work  due to the size and suggested a complete 
repipe. ASG also said that the issues couldve been  caused by the existing system.
Ref: DRN18936045Thinking about  this, I havent seen enough  to make me think its more likely  than not that the 
pipes caused  the issue. But, either way, this wouldnt  change  my opinion about the 
installation. I say this because if the issues are due to the pipes, I wouldve expected at the 
very least that these  were  recommended  to be replaced during the installation   which as far 
as Im aware wasnt done. I say this as ASG,  and W both seem  to agree this could at least  
potentially cause issues. So, I also think this would mean the installation  wasnt  done with 
reasonable care and skill.
ASG have said that they doubt the validity  of Ws statement and say they arent  
independent. They say they believe the company may not have been trading when it 
undertook work. 
I have considered that W isnt a completely independent party. But, I find the testimony  
theyve given persuasive when considered along with the other evidence in this case. And, 
from looking online, I can see reviews  for this company from several years ago. So I think its 
most likely W was trading when it says.  So, I dont think  Ws statement is invalid.
Ive also considered that ASG said the problems  were caused by Mr and Mrs (Cs)  lack of 
due diligence  in regards to their own heating  system. But I havent seen any evidence  of 
this. It appears Mr and Mrs C informed ASG of the issues they were  having, as I would 
expect. And I havent seen anything else to suggest  they werent using or maintaining  the 
system as they should have.
Mr and Mrs C say ASG  broke a seal when it attended that needed to be fixed. I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest this was the case. But, from Ws testimony it appears a leaking 
filter needed replacing. Im not sure what happened here. But either way, I dont think parts  
shouldve needed  to be replaced  so soon after the boiler was installed. 
Plastic tank left in attic
Mr and Mrs C say a copper tank was removed from the site which they were  told would be 
sold - whereas a plastic tank was left in the attic.  They say they believe the plastic tank 
shouldve been  removed as part of the installation. ASG say the tank wouldnt have been 
removed if it was too big to fit through the loft hatch. But I havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest this was the case.
Looking at the agreement,  this says The Company  will remove  and dispose of the 
Customers old boiler free of charge  should the Customer  wish or otherwise leave the same  
for the Customer to dispose of themselves.
In response to the investigators view, ASG  said Mr and Mrs C declined  this option on the 
homeowner feedback form. ASG have now supplied a copy of this. This says:
I authorise A Shade Greener to remove my old boiler/tank and any other debris
On the form, old boiler/tank  has been  crossed through  and the box next to this crossed. 
Mr and Mrs C signed below this. So, it appears  from the form Mr and Mrs C authorised ASG 
to remove debris, but it appears the option  to remove  the boiler was crossed through.
Thinking about  this, I think its somewhat  odd if ASG removed  a copper tank and left a 
plastic one. But that being said, it seems likely Mr and Mrs C signed to say ASG shouldnt  
remove the old tank. So, I dont think ASG needs to take any further  action on this point.
Ref: DRN18936046Increase in direct debit  repayments
Mr and Mrs C say they received notice  their repayments were increasing, when they werent 
expecting this. I can see ASG wrote to Mr C in June  2018 and advised that payments would 
be £50.15 per month for the next year.
Looking at the agreement Mr and Mrs C signed,  under  key features of the product in the 
section repayments this says:
168 monthly  repayments, being in the sum of £22.95 per month  for the first 3 calendar  
months commencing immediately after installation, followed  by 21 monthly  payments in the 
sum of £45.89  per month, followed by 144 monthly payments in the sum of £47.27 
escalating at 3% per annum after the third anniversary of the date of installation.
It appears Mr and Mrs C wouldve been  due to pay £47.27 per month, with a three per cent 
increase per year from three years after the installation  which  would be January 2017. So, 
in January 2017 I would  expect the repayments  to have been £48.69 per month. In January 
2018 Id expect this to increase to £50.15  per month   which  is what the letter ASG sent 
explained.
I dont know why this appeared to increase in June rather  than January. But, as this date is 
later, I cant see that Mr and Mrs C have lost out as a result of this.
Thinking about  everything, I think Mr and Mrs C agreed to ASG increasing  the repayments  
as above when they agreed to the finance. And it appears the increase  is in line with this. 
So, I dont think ASG  has done anything wrong here.
Warranty
Mr and Mrs C say they received a letter  that they believed explained the warranty  for the 
boiler moved  away from ASG to a different company.
Ive thought about this. But I think its most  likely the warranty for the boiler was always  held 
with the manufacturer  not ASG. Looking at the agreement, the warranty doesnt  form part 
of the finance.  Its worth  pointing out that the warranty appears to be separate from the 
servicing agreement.  So, it follows I dont think ASG  has done anything wrong here.
Delay in attending  property
Mr and Mrs C say there were occasions where  they called ASG  out for a repair  but it didnt 
meet the timescales in its terms  and conditions. For instance, they say on the most recent 
callout it took ASG around six days to attend.
Ive thought about what the terms and conditions say about this. They  say:
The Company will provide a 365 day repair call out to the Customer and in the event of a 
callout, the Company Warrants to the Customer that:-
Ref: DRN18936047If the company receives an emergency  repair call from the Customer before 10am on any 
day a technician will arrive at the Property to check the Equipment before 10pm that day, or
If the Company receives the repair  call from the Customer after 10am  on any day, a 
technician will endeavour to arrive at the Property  to check the equipment before the end of 
the following  day.
Ive thought about what the terms say. I think the key thing here is that ASG says this applies 
to an emergency repair call. This isnt defined in the terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs C say the main issues with the system  were intermittent hot water  and radiators  
not performing.  I understand how frustrating  this must have been for them. But, I dont think  
its likely  in this particular  case  that this would meet the term emergency repair  call. I say 
this as I dont think  it was likely, for example, that there was a risk of damage to 
Mr and Mrs Cs property. And, from the very limited details Im aware  of, I dont think this 
wouldve impacted  Mr and Mrs Cs health.
It follows that because  I dont think Mr and Mrs C made emergency repair  calls,  I dont  think 
ASG breached the contract here. 
Charge on the property
Mr and Mrs C say a charge was applied on the land registry on their property in relation to 
the agreement. They  say this wasnt mentioned  or explained properly when they took the 
agreement. Its clear from what Mr and Mrs C said in their complaint they feel very strongly 
about this issue.
Ive considered what the terms and conditions say about this. These  say:
For the purpose of allowing  the Company to be notified should the Customer  wish to sell or 
otherwise transfer  the Property,  the Customer acknowledges  and consents  to the Company 
applying to HM Land Registry for the Restriction to be registered against the Property 
registered at HM Land Registry in the following form 
no disposition of the registered estate (other than a charge) by the proprietor of the 
registered estate,  or by the proprietor of any registered charge, not being  a charge 
registered before the entry of this restriction, is to be registered without a written  consent 
signed by A Shade Greener (Boilers)  LLP of Sterling House, Maple Court,  Maple Road, 
Tankersley, S75 3DP
By entering  into this Agreement,  the Customer specifically consents to the entry of the 
Restriction against the Property. 
Its important to point  out that a restriction is not the same as a charge. But, thinking about 
this, I would still expect  such  an important term of the agreement  to be clearly  pointed out to 
Mr and Mrs C. But, I cant see that this was the case. The condition  is on the 11th page of the 
agreement. It is marked  as being term number  13 in the agreement, but the numbers reset 
part way through the document. So its actually term 31 of 40. I also cant  see that the terms 
and conditions highlight  this in any way. And, Mr and Mrs C werent required to sign 
separately for this.
Ref: DRN18936048Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs C said about this. They say at no point was this 
explicitly mentioned  or explained properly during the sales  pitch or when reviewing the 
agreement with the advisor.
Thinking about  all of this, Im satisfied this term wasnt explained properly or drawn  to 
Mr and Mrs Cs attention.
Our investigator also reached this conclusion. But, he said he thought Mr and Mrs C 
wouldve still gone ahead with the agreement. He said this was because  the impact  of the 
restriction wouldnt have put them  off taking the contract for the boiler. But, I dont  agree  with 
him on this point. Ill explain why.
I think its likely this restriction could cause Mr and Mrs C issues  in the future if they decided 
to sell their property. It could cause delays, additional costs  or issues with solicitors and 
conveyancing  during  what is already acknowledged  to be a very stressful  time for most 
people. Had Mr and Mrs C known about this, I dont think they wouldve agreed to go ahead 
with the agreement and wouldve sought  to get a boiler from another provider. I think this is 
an unusual term for such an agreement  and Im confident they couldve found an 
alternative supplier that wouldnt have placed a restriction on their property.
Ive considered whether the agreement  should  be unwound due to this - as this would be the 
closest to putting  both parties  in the position they wouldve been in had this issue  not 
occurred. But, this would be quite complex and would  involve the removal of 
Mr and Mrs Cs boiler  which would be rather disruptive.  As far as Im aware, since the work 
W undertook at Mr and Mrs Cs house the boiler  is now performing as it should,  and they are 
happy to keep it. So, thinking  about  whats fair and reasonable, I think  ASG should remove  
the restriction.
Putting things right
Our investigator said ASG  should  refund Mr and Mrs C the cost of Ws visit in February 
2018, reimburse them for the cost of the power  flush by W, but not the re-pipe, and pay them  
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ive thought about this. I agree with our investigator  that Mr and Mrs C should  be reimbursed 
for ASGs visit in January 2018.  And, I also agree that Mr and Mrs C have suffered distress  
and inconvenience  because of what went wrong.  Their boiler has not been performing as it 
should for some time, meaning theyve had issues such as intermittent hot water. And, 
theyve had to take time out to have visits by both ASG and W.
Mr and Mrs C have provided  two invoices from W. The first is for the visit in February  2018  
for a total of £180. I think its fair this is reimbursed  as Im satisfied these costs were  
directly linked to the improper installation of the boiler.
The second  invoice from March 2018  is for £578. Its difficult to see from the second invoice 
what the cost of the power flush was and what was for the other work. I spoke to W who said 
the cost of a power flush is generally  around  £600  but Im aware  this will depend  on the 
system. 
Ref: DRN18936049To keep  things simple  I think its fair that ASG reimburse Mr and Mrs C the total cost of this 
invoice. Ive considered that this invoice covers  the cost of the re-pipe that W performed  
and I cant be certain  if this was absolutely essential or not. But, Im not going to award  
Mr and Mrs C a separate amount of compensation for distress and inconvenience in addition  
to this. Im satisfied any betterment that Mr and Mrs C have had from the additional  work  is 
the equivalent of any distress  and inconvenience caused by ASG.
I gave both parties one month to provide any further  comments or information  for me to 
consider before making my final decision.
Mr and Mrs C responded  and said they didnt  have any further  comments or information.
ASG got in touch  and said, while  it didnt  agree  with my decision about  the installation,  it 
would abide by it as a gesture of goodwill  towards  Mr and Mrs C. But, it said it didnt agree 
with my findings about the land registry  issue. 
ASG provided some  dates it said it spoke  to Mr and Mrs C about the land registry and it said 
they wouldve  been fully informed. It highlighted  where the land registry is mentioned in the 
agreement. And, it provided a form signed by Mr C from around the time the boiler was 
supplied that was ticked to say the entry on the land registry  was explained to him.
I asked Mr and Mrs C to give their thoughts  on the new evidence and comments from ASG.  
They said,  in light of the goodwill shown by ASG,  they did not want to pursue further  action 
about the land registry  issue. But, they said they thought ASG should  be explicitly  clear with 
consumers about  contracts.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think this complaint 
should be upheld.
Given Mr and Mrs C no longer wish to pursue the complaint raised  about  the entry on the 
land registry, I wont make any findings about this particular issue and wont  instruct  ASG to 
do anything further  here.
Having thought carefully about the other  issues raised, I still think the complaint should  be 
upheld. This is for the same reasons I explained  in my provisional decision and set out 
above.
Ref: DRN189360410my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP to 
put things right by doing the following:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs C £60 for the ASG  visit in January 2018*
Reimburse Mr and Mrs C £180  for Ws visit in February 2018*
Reimburse Mr and Mrs C £578  for Ws visit in March 2018*
*These amounts should have 8% simple interest  added from the point of payment to the 
point Mr and Mrs C get this back. HM Revenue & Customs requires A Shade Greener 
(Boilers) LLP to take off tax from this interest.  A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP must give 
Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2020.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1893604