K820x#14Complaint
Mrs and Mr W say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs and Mr W took out a mortgage and PPI through Lloyds in 1998  at a meeting with the 
bank. The policy covered Mr W only for accident,  sickness and unemployment. 
In 2002, Mrs and Mr W took out a further mortgage advance. They  also took out PPI 
alongside that mortgage. Again, only Mr W was covered for accident,  sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs and Mr W didnt accept our adjudicators 
view, so their complaint  was passed to me to issue a decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Mrs and Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when the insurance was added. But, looking  at 
the paperwork Mrs and Mr W signed at the time,  I can see on both occasions they signed 
separate paperwork, relating just to PPI. Each time they signed  to say that they wanted the 
optional insurance.  So, I think it likely that PPI was discussed and Mrs and Mr W opted to 
take the cover and thats why it was added.
Lloyds recommended Mrs and Mr W take PPI, so it had to consider whether  it was suitable 
for their needs. In addition, it had to give them information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading about the PPI so that they could make an informed choice about whether it was 
right for them and they wanted to buy it. If there was a problem with the sale, then I need to 
consider whether I think Mrs and Mr W have  lost out because of that.
Mr W only was covered  under the policy. But as these were  joint mortgages Ive taking into 
account Mrs W circumstances as well to decide  this complaint.
I cant see that PPI was unsuitable  for Mrs and Mr W in 1998 or in 2002. Their circumstances 
were largely  the same  at the time of both sales although I note Mr W was working for 
different employers at the time of each sale.
I think PPI was suitable because:
 Mr W appeared eligible to take out PPI given his circumstances.
 Mr W said he wouldnt have  got any sick pay through  work  from either  employer. 
Mrs W said she wasnt eligible to get sick pay from her employer either.  They 
said they had some savings and insurances,  which they could use to meet  their 
repayments. The policy  wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months  per successful 
Ref: DRN17222882claim if Mr W was off sick or made  involuntarily unemployed. So, I think  this 
couldve provided Mrs and Mr W with a valuable  benefit to protect  their home  at 
what might  be a difficult time for them financially. Based on what  Ive been told 
about their savings or other insurances,  I cant see that these other resources 
made PPI unsuitable for them.
 I cant see that Mr W wouldve been  affected  by any of the main  things the 
policy didnt cover at the time he took out each  policy, so I dont think having  
better information about these things wouldve made any difference to their 
decision to take out PPI. Mr W likely couldve benefitted from everything the 
policy offered.
 The premiums were  paid monthly so they couldve cancelled PPI at any time 
without losing out financially. They didnt have to pay interest  on the premiums. I 
cant see that either policy was unaffordable.
Its possible the bank  couldve given Mrs and Mr W clearer information, particularly about  
the costs and benefits. But, for the reasons explained, I think they wouldve likely still 
taken out the policy  because of the protection it afforded them and it appeared suitable  
for their needs and affordable.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1722288