K821x#15complaint
Ms E complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
gave her loans which  he couldnt afford to pay back.  
background 
Ms E took out 11 instalment loans with Sunny between April 2018 and December 2018. 
Ms E says she was borrowing to repay  existing credit and was in financial difficulty and so it 
was irresponsible  to give her the loans.
Sunny offered to refund all interest  and charges on loans 2,5,10 and 11 and remove any 
adverse information  from Ms Es credit  report.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that it wasnt  wrong for Sunny to have 
given Ms E loans 1, 3 and 4. But at the point of loan 6 Ms Es borrowing pattern was a cause 
for concern and Sunny shouldve seen that she was persistently relying on these loans and 
further lending  wasnt sustainable.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that it didnt think  
Ms E was persistently relying on the credit. It pointed out that Ms E was required to use only 
a small amount of her income towards  the loans and his borrowing pattern  did not show  
increasing borrowing. The business did repeat its offer to refund all interest and charges 
incurred on loans 2,5,10 and 11. 
Ms E didnt accept that offer so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms E could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN18075962the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Ms E could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Es complaint. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Ms E. It asked Ms E for details of 
her income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Ms Es credit  file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Ms E loans 1, 3 and 4 on 
the basis of the information she gave about  her income and outgoings. It was early  in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As 
Ms E hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to these 
loans, I dont think that I need  to say more about  them.
Sunny has already offered  to put things  right in line with what  I would recommend for loans 
2,5,10 and 11 in respect of interest and charges, so I will focus on the loans which  remain in 
dispute  loans 6 to 9.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Ms Es lending with Sunny to see if there  was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Ms E.
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Es case, I agree with the conclusions  of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan 6. I say this because:
When Ms E took out loan 6, shed been borrowing almost continually  and wasnt  making 
any inroads into the amount that she owed. 
Ms E asked for loan 6 two weeks after she had taken out £300 for loan 5 which  was still 
outstanding. The next day Ms E repaid loan 5 and 6. Ms E was taking multiple 
overlapping loans and paying them off early which  would suggest she needed to borrow  
Ref: DRN18075963again to fill the hole in her finances. I think this pattern of lending shouldve alerted 
Sunny to the likelihood  that Ms E was having problems responsibly managing her 
money. 
I think that Ms E lost out because Sunny  continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards. This is because:
These loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Ms Es indebtedness  by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended for short term use over an extended period of time.
The number  of loans, combined  with the total length of time Ms E had been borrowing 
from Sunny was likely  to have had negative implications on her ability  to access  
mainstream credit. This kept Ms E in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Ms Es complaint about  loans 6 to 9 in addition to loans 2,5,10 and 11.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms E towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it 
has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Ms E which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms E originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Ms E as though they had been  
repayments of the principal. If this results in Ms E having  made overpayments then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move 
to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Ms E. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then you should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan with 
Ms E.
E.Remove any adverse  information on Ms Es credit file about loans 2 and 5. The 
number of loans taken  from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 11 should  be removed from Ms Es 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Ms E a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN18075964my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Es complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1807596