K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs K says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in
2000. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. In my provisional decision sent in August 2019 I 
explained why I didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. I said:
FICL had to make Mrs K aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mrs K applied for her card 
and PPI but from the information provided by FICL  I can see that the PPI was added to 
Mrs Ks card several  years after she took it out. So I think she would have known she didnt 
have to the PPI, and she chose to have it. Although given the time thats passed I can 
understand why she may not remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs K so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs K got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI knowing  the other means she had to make 
her repayments, which included some sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to Mrs Ks sick pay, and for longer.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ks circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld as Mrs K was close  to the state 
retirement age when she took the policy and she may not have benefitted from the main 
benefits the policy offered if she chose to retire.  But FICL didnt recommend the policy to 
Mrs K, and I think  it would  have made her aware  that the policy was there to cover her if she 
was unable to work.  So it would have  been for Mrs K to decide  if she wanted to have it or 
not. It also wasnt compulsory for Mrs M to retire when she reached  60 years old so she 
could have continued to benefit from the policy offered for some time.
Neither Mrs K nor FICL provided  any further  information in response to my decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further  information  I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN18485092my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1848509