K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs E bought the policy  in 1999 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. The 
policy covered Mr E. Mr and Mrs E have said that they applied for this mortgage and PPI by 
post. But looking at the available paperwork from the sale, I think  that its more  likely than not 
that they took this mortgage during a meeting.
Based on the nearest relevant policy certificate  and policy summary, this policy  provided 
cover for Mr E for accident,  sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £200 a month towards Mr and Mrs Es mortgage balance  and 
mortgage related  expenses  in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  it cost £13.13 a 
month. The policy was free for the first six months. 
At the time,  based  on Mr Es employment reference, he was employed as a tool inspector 
and he was entitled to 19 weeks full sick pay followed  by 19 weeks half sick pay. Mr E has 
also told us about  a death in service and a redundancy entitlement through his employer, as 
well as an existing life insurance policy. Mr E has said he was in good health  at the time of 
the sale. 
Mrs E wasnt  covered by the policy but Ive also kept her circumstances in mind when 
coming to my decision. She was employed  as a sales  consultant  and based  on the salary 
recorded on the mortgage application,  she appears  to have been working part time and 
earning considerably  less than Mr E.
Bradford & Bingley  has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 
2007.
Mr and Mrs Es representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Es representative  says:
Bradford & Bingley  Plc failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. 
In those circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses 
on handling  PPI complaints under DISP  App 3, it should  be presumed Mr and Mrs E 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Es representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN10892522claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bradford & Bingley 
should have told Mr and Mrs E about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bradford & Bingley should  
have explained  the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to              
Mr and Mrs E and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a 
claim; 
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and 
The information Mr E received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr and Mrs E responded to the adjudicators  
opinion disagreeing for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Es. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN10892523complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Bradford & Bingley at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI 
Code and these  other  publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out in DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Bradford & Bingley  was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Bradford & Bingley  gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs E with reasonable 
care and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them  
given their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN10892524-Whether Bradford  & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs E sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of            
Mr and Mrs E, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent                     
Mr and Mrs E suffered loss or damage and what I consider  would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs E 
and Bradford & Bingley,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs E know they had a choice?
Bradford & Bingley  had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs E knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
I say this because  Mr and Mrs Es mortgage  application  form had a section for PPI. In this 
section there  were three  different options for the level of cover required. There  were options 
for Illness, Injury & Unemployment , Illness & Injury  only and Payment Protection not 
required.
Theres a tick next to the option for Illness, Injury & Unemployment. Mr and Mrs E have also 
signed the overall mortgage application to confirm they were  happy with the selections 
made. 
did Bradford & Bingley  provide advice?
Both Bradford & Bingley and Mr and Mrs E agree  that advice wasnt  provided  during this 
sale. 
This means  Bradford & Bingley  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs E. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable them to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs E were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr E 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive also noted that the monthly  benefit of the policy was shown on the mortgage 
application along with the eligibility criteria for the policy.  The same document  also states 
that the policy was free for the first six months.  So I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs E would 
have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be. 
Ref: DRN10892525But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Bradford & Bingley gave 
sufficient information  about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before      
Mr and Mrs E agreed to take out the policy. As Ive already said, I think that Mr and Mrs E 
were given some information about the policy, such as the monthly benefit and the first six 
months premiums being free when they applied for the PPI. Ive also considered that the 
mortgage offer sent to them after their application, but before the PPI policy started  gave    
Mr and Mrs E more  information about the policy  including the monthly cost after the period 
of free cover. 
So I dont  think Bradford & Bingley  gave  Mr and Mrs E sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out in DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Es representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Es. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Es representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs E about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Es representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs E have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Bradford & Bingley ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Bradford & Bingleys shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs E? To what 
extent did Mr and Mrs E suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Bradford & Bingley didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to 
Mr and Mrs E. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to 
conclude they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs E would have still taken out the policy, had Bradford & Bingley done 
things properly. 
Ref: DRN10892526Mr and Mrs E say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs E had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr E being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs E chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what              
Mr and Mrs E thought they were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs E have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Bradford & Bingley told them the exact premium 
at the point they applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs E would  
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Bradford & Bingley at the time, or reconsidered  
their decision. The policy was also free for the first six months so if Mr and Mrs E were  
unhappy with the cost of the policy after the six months they could  have cancelled  it. 
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs E would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs E thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  broadly the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for which Mr E received 
medical treatment or medical advice or which he ought reasonably  to have been 
aware of during the two years prior to the PPI start date;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr E 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for an injury or illness  (disability) claim  
Mr E be unable  to do his usual gainful employment or any other  gainful  employment 
for which he was fitted by knowledge  and training;  and 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr and Mrs E pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs E from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr E was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
Ref: DRN10892527suggest Mr E wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr E didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr E 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr and Mrs E had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr E was unable  to do both 
his usual gainful employment  or any other  gainful employment for which he was fitted by 
knowledge and training, it might  have played into their thinking about what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr E was unable (through disability) to 
carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Bradford & Bingley  may not have  told Mr and Mrs E that any claim they made would be 
limited to a 12 month period. This may have differed from what  they expected and might  
have hoped for. But 12 months was a longer period than Mr E would have received full sick 
pay for and his redundancy entitlement is also likely to be less than 12 months  income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs E would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr E be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy  particularly as he was the main income earner in the household. The 
policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce their outgoings at a 
difficult and uncertain  time,  ensuring their home was not placed at risk and might potentially 
help preserve Mr Es sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs E would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr E was made redundant, or was unable to work  through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr and 
Mrs E would have taken out the policy in any event  notwithstanding  the limitations on the 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Es representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints                 
(DISP App 3) make  it clear  that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be 
presumed the consumer wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh  
the presumption.  They say we should  follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
Ref: DRN10892528presumed Mr and Mrs E would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Es circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mr and Mrs E found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs E believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out in DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs E in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Bradford & Bingley should pay Mr and Mrs E compensation, as 
that would  put them  in a better position  than they would have been in if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs E think Bradford & Bingley misrepresented  the terms of the 
policy in how it described the PPI. While  I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude 
some of Bradford  & Bingleys statements misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the 
reason why Bradford & Bingley failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it 
did or didnt  say in the information  it provided   but because the overall information        
Bradford & Bingley  gave  Mr and Mrs E, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet  the 
standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1999 when providing 
information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Es representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Bradford  & Bingley negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs E 
and about the remedy a court might  award  if it were  to find that Bradford & Bingley had been 
in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my 
conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  
including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons 
Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable  to put Mr and Mrs E in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN10892529my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1089252