K820x#14Complaint
Mrs O is unhappy with how Aviva  Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt  with a claim under the 
security & pest section of her landlord combined cover insurance  policy. 
Background
Mrs O rents  out a property and in February 2018,  her tenant reported seeing a mouse. She 
notified a claim on her policy. Aviva arranged  for traps  to be laid in the home and some 
follow-up appointments  were agreed. Mrs O says several of these were missed, and no mice 
were caught.  Shes also unhappy that Aviva  wouldnt  cover the blocking of some  holes it 
identified as potential  entry points for the mice. Mrs O made a complaint  asking Aviva  to hire 
a pest-control  company  to remove the mice. She also argued that it should refund her 
premium from February 2018  onwards and stop her cover as it had breached her contract of 
insurance. 
Aviva initially  offered £20 compensation, but later increased this to £120. It acknowledged 
that some  appointments were likely missed. But said it wasnt responsible for sealing the 
holes. Although it cancelled the cover going forward,  as requested, it didnt agree to refund 
the premium as a claim had been made.
Mrs O referred  the matter to our service. She said there were  no exclusions in the policy 
which explained why Aviva wouldnt cover sealing the holes. She still thought  her premium 
should be refunded, and was unhappy  that Aviva had taken a further  monthly instalment. 
She also wasnt satisfied  with the compensation offered. 
Our investigator found that Mrs O was covered for the removal  of pests, not the prevention  
which is why Aviva hadnt sealed the holes. She also thought  Mrs Os complaint letter  had 
suggested she wanted her cover  cancelled after her complaint had been  considered.  The 
investigator concluded that Aviva hadnt  breached the contract, and that the compensation 
offered was fair. She didnt recommend  anything  further.
Mrs O wasnt  happy with this. She said the removal process was inadequate as no mice 
were caught,  and argued that preventative action was fundamental to the removal  service. 
Shes asked  for someone else to review  her case.  So its been escalated  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator  and for largely  the same reasons. 
Mrs Os claim was covered under the following term of the policy:
in the event of a pest infestation, we will remove the pest infestation
Examples of claims covered:
Removal of pests  such as rats or mice  in the main  home of your property
Ref: DRN13143052Although no mice were  caught, theres  no persuasive evidence  to show this was due to 
Avivas failure to take reasonable action under the policy.  It identified  some potential entry 
points in the house and advised Mrs O to seal these. It also laid traps  and bait for the mice. 
Im satisfied this met Avivas obligations  under the policy.  Although  Mrs O thinks it shouldve  
sealed the holes or paid for her to arrange this, I consider there  to be a clear  distinction 
between removing pests from the property  and taking action to prevent them  from entering. 
Indeed, its normal  for an insurance policy to indemnify the policyholder  against  loss or 
damage caused by specified insured perils; but they dont usually cover the cost of rectifying  
the actual causes/perils.  So its not really a question of whether exclusions apply; more that 
theres simply no cover for this in the first place. In the circumstances, Im satisfied Aviva 
hasnt acted in breach  of contract  or otherwise unfairly turned down that part of the claim. 
It therefore follows that I wont be instructing Aviva to refund the premium from 
February 2018 onwards. Aviva ran the risks that Mrs O asked  it to cover and, moreover, 
incurred costs and liability following  the occurrence of an insured peril. Its important to 
understand that premiums are based  on a number of risk factors  and calculated over the 
entire period of insurance, i.e. a year. Strictly speaking, the full premium  is payable upfront  
and its a matter of discretion that some  insurers allow policyholders to spread payments out 
monthly to make things  easier. Once  liability  has been triggered there can be no pro rata 
refund of premiums  even if the claim  is rejected  partly or wholly  because  the risk has 
commenced and been run.
So, Mrs O has benefitted from the insurance  through the claim she made as well as the 
protection she had in place for other risks that had commenced and were run by Aviva,  i.e. 
potential home emergencies.
I dont consider Avivas  handling of the claim to be fully satisfactory. The records Ive seen 
persuade me that at least  one appointment  was missed. The main  impact on Mrs O seems  
to have been the time she spent chasing up Aviva and the worry she had about the impact 
on her tenant. Although  Mrs O considers the £20 and £100 offered to be separate,  our 
services approach  in the context of compensation for non-financial harm  is to think  
holistically about the overall impact  of any errors.  Im satisfied  the £120 offered  fairly reflects  
the distress and inconvenience  Mrs O was caused  by any errors  by Aviva and is in line with 
awards weve previously made  on similar  cases.  
Mrs O asserts  that Aviva shouldve cancelled her policy sooner. She sent her complaint 
letter on 13 May 2018 and a monthly payment was taken two days  later. Having reviewed 
the letter, I can see that it ends as follows: 
My request at this stage  is as follows:
1.Homeserve pays a pest control company  I engage that would do a complete pest 
control job of removal of mice as their recommendations have broken your 
service contract to me.
2.Homeserve gives me my money back (premiums)since start of contract this year 
as they are unable  to continue or effect  my claim,  close my insurance contract as 
I have made no other claim besides this. If your recommendation is that I am 
going to pay £500  for this year, you will agree with me this is daylight robbery. 
My recommendation to Homeserve is, if your agents  are ill prepared for pest control 
services, you need to discontinue  the service or engage another  as this would not be the first 
nor would it be the last complaint against you and your agents.
Ref: DRN13143053I await your determination  in this regard. I would appreciate if you can also enclose  
exceptions you rely on such as parts that is needed  to seal off being my responsibility as 
none is in the contract  I have for rodents removal
Although Mrs O talks about closing  her cover, the impression I get is that she was seeking 
this as part of her desired resolution  to her complaint. So I consider it reasonable that Aviva  
reviewed her complaint  first. Mrs Os next payment was due just two days after she sent her 
letter, whereas Aviva had up to eight weeks to reach a final answer. 
Aviva finished its review after one further payment had been taken. It didnt agree that it had 
fundamentally breached the contract.  I havent  reached this conclusion either. So there  are 
no contractual grounds to treat the cover  as void. In any event, if that were  the case,  Mrs O 
would be obliged to repay Aviva  the costs it incurred  investigating a claim under a contract  
that would  be treated  as having never existed.
Once it was clear that Aviva wasnt going  to meet the claim in the way Mrs O desired, Im 
satisfied it was correct  to act on her instructions  to cancel  the cover  at that stage. If Mrs O 
had wanted her cover cancelled sooner,  she couldve contacted  Aviva  separately about this 
rather than (or in addition  to) going  through the complaints procedure. But given that the full 
annual premium is payable for the reasons Ive set out above, I cant  see that it makes a 
material difference when the policy was actually cancelled. Ultimately, Mrs O notified a claim 
which Aviva  had to investigate, so is liable for paying the annual  premium agreed at 
inception and/or renewal  of the contract. 
Overall, Im satisfied with Avivas  decision  not to meet  some  aspects of Mrs Os claim. And I 
consider the compensation offered to be a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already paid Mrs O £20, and its offered to pay her a further 
£100. My final decision  is that Aviva  Insurance Limited should pay this further £100 within 
28 days of being  notified by us of Mrs Os acceptance of my decision, failing which  interest 
will accrue at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date of decision to the date of settlement 
(less any tax properly deductible).
If Mrs O accepts this decision, it becomes legally binding  on both parties. So Mrs O wouldnt 
then be able to take legal  action in relation to any issues covered in this case. On the other  
hand, if she rejects the decision, whilst  that wont affect her legal  rights, it will mean  that 
Aviva wouldnt  be obliged  to comply with my order  so it would then be purely  a matter of 
goodwill as to whether it honours the offer its made. Legally, an offer isnt binding until 
unconditional acceptance of it has been communicated by the offeree.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1314305