K821x#15complaint
Mr U complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited.  
background
In April 2018 Mr U was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. At the point  of supply the car was approximately 2 years old and had covered 
approximately 22,900 miles.
Mr U experienced issues  with the car including:
Loud rattle from front
Reversing  camera  not working
Message displayed saying camera  not available
Mr U returned the car to the supplying dealer who carried  out repairs. However,  when Mr U 
collected the car he found that the issues were still present  and he returned the car to the 
dealer again.
The dealer  contacted Mr U a few days later to say the car was fixed. But Mr U found  that the 
issues were still present and returned the car again.
The dealer  looked at the car in October  2018.  The job sheet  shows  that repairs  were  carried 
out to address the noise.  The problem with the reversing camera  couldnt be replicated but 
the dealer carried  out a software update.
When Mr U collected the car he continued  to experience issues  with noise and the reverse 
camera. He complained to MBFS and asked to reject the car.
MBFS refused the request to reject.  It said there was no evidence of faults  with the car and 
said that Mr U had complained outside  of the first 6 months.
Mr U remained  unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He was satisfied that the faults  with the reverse 
camera had been  identified within the first 6 months and that the dealer had attempted a 
repair which  had been unsuccessful. He said MBFS should allow Mr U to reject the car.
MBFS didnt agree. It said Mr U hadnt  reported  the issues until October 2018 which was 
outside of the first 6 months of the agreement. It said it was up to Mr U to show  that there 
was a point of supply fault and said that the dealer hadnt found any faults  with the reverse  
camera.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MBFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied 
term that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what  a  reasonable person would 
Ref: DRN16903672regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as the price paid, fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a 
second hand car, such as that supplied  to Mr U, to have a degree  of wear and tear. So in 
order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply due to an inherent defect rather  than wear  and tear.
Mr U and MBFS disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. So in 
order to reach a decision I need  to look at all of the available evidence  and determine,  on the 
balance of probabilities, whether I think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply.
Mr U has said he experienced issues with the rattling  noise and the reverse camera  not 
working within a week  of purchasing the car. Hes said he found it difficult to arrange  an 
appointment for the dealership because it was so busy. Mr U has provided copies of text 
messages he exchanged  with the dealer in late June and July 2018. Its clear  from these  
messages that he was experiencing  issues with the car and wanted  the dealership to look at 
it.
Although MBFS has said that Mr U didnt report any issues  with the car until October 2018, I 
dont think this is the case. The text messages Ive mentioned above show that Mr U raised 
concerns with the dealer  in June 2018. I can also see that the dealer provided Mr U with a 
courtesy car in September  2018. Although the dealer  hasnt been  able to provide any 
information about this, I think  its likely that the car was returned to the dealership in 
September 2018 because  of the issues Mr U had reported.  I cant  be certain  of whether the 
dealer attempted repairs on this occasion because no job sheet has been provided.  But Im 
satisfied that the car was with the dealer.
I can see that the car was with the dealer again  in October 2018. The job sheet suggests 
that a noise was heard  during a test drive  and that repairs were carried  out to resolve  this. 
The job sheet says that the dealer was unable to replicate the issues  with the reverse  
camera but that a software update was carried pout.
Mr U has said that the issues with the noise  and the camera havent been fixed. Hes 
provided video  evidence which he says demonstrates this. Ive viewed the video and 
although I cant be certain that the car is making an unusual noise, I can see that there is an 
error message displayed  relating to the camera. I appreciate that MBFS hasnt accepted  the 
reliability of the video  evidence, however, Ive no reason to think  that this isnt a video of Mr 
Us car and Im satisfied  that it shows a fault with the camera.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault presents within the first 6 months,  its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed  one attempt to 
repair a fault.  If the repair isnt successful the consumer can reject  the car.
Ive taken into account what MBFS has said about when Mr U reported  the issues  and the 
fact that the dealer wasnt able to replicate  the problem with the reverse camera.  Ive already 
explained why Im satisfied that Mr U reported  the fault within  the first 6 months. I accept that 
the dealer has said it wasnt  able to replicate the fault with the reverse camera, however, it 
carried out a software  update and Im of the view that this constituted an attempt at repair 
which wasnt successful.
Ref: DRN16903673On the balance of evidence,  Im satisfied that the fault with the reverse  camera is still 
present. Because the repair was unsuccessful, Im of the view that Mr U should be allowed 
to reject the car.
Mr U has queried the amount of the deposit  that the documents  record  that hes paid. He 
says he paid more  than the sum shown. Ive taken account of what Mr U has said but based 
on the finance agreement Im satisfied that the deposit paid was £2,282.01.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must:
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr U.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Remove any adverse  information from Mr Us credit  file
Refund Mr Us deposit together with 8% simple  interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay £100 for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1690367