K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that he was mis-sold his washing machine protection policy by Domestic and 
General Insurance Plc (D&G).
background
Mr F bought  a washing machine in 1993 and bought a breakdown protection  policy 
alongside it. The policy came into force  on 11 November 1994, following  the expiry  of the 
manufacturers guarantee, for an initial period of four years.
The plan provides cover for repairing the washing machine if it goes wrong and replacing  it 
with a new one if its beyond repair and under five years old. Washing machines older than 
five years are subject to a depreciation scale. This means D&G would make a contribution  to 
the replacement  machine  and Mr F would need  to pay for the short  fall where the washing 
machine is over five years old.
At the end of the initial period the policy  became annually renewable and renewal invitations 
were sent to Mr F each  year so he could decide if he wanted to carry on with the policy, 
which Mr F did until 2016.
Mr F successfully claimed under the policy for repairs to the washing machine in 1997, 2001, 
2003, 2006, 2007 and 2014.
In July 2016 Mr F had reason to claim  again, but this time the washing machine was beyond 
repair so D&G offered  to arrange a replacement, where it would pay a contribution towards  a 
new washing  machine.
The policy terms and conditions include the following:
Replacements
1.
2.If we replace your product and your product is over five years old you will have to pay 
a contribution towards the cost of the replacement.  If your product is between 5 years  
old and 6 years old you will have to pay 50% of the retail price. If it is between  6 
years and 7 years  old you will have to pay 60% of the retail  price, and if it is over 7 
years old you will have to pay 70% of the retail price.
3.
4.The retail price  is the full retail  price from a retailer chosen by us, of a replacement 
product of the same or similar  make and technical specification.
Mr F was unhappy with this as he thought  the policy provided new for old cover,  he also said 
D&G had given him incorrect  information about this in a call hed had with it recently.  He 
complained to D&G, it responded saying it had recently revised  the contribution it makes and 
raised the amount itd pay towards a new washing machine to 55% as opposed  to the 30% 
laid out in the terms and conditions. It also accepted  that Mr F may have been given 
incorrect information on a recent call and awarded  £10 compensation for this.
Mr F remained unhappy with this answer  so brought the complaint to this service. The 
adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should  be upheld.  In summary he said:
Ref: DRN10671162Although Mr F says he hadnt been  sent the terms and conditions, he had received 
the renewal notices. The adjudicator believed the renewal document  was clear  in 
setting out the circumstances  where a new washing machine would be received, as it 
included the following  statement:
If we decide your washing machine  is beyond repair while its under 5 
years old youll receive  a brand new one .
 You will need  to pay any delivery and installation charges and remaining 
monthly payments.  Depreciation scales apply after 5 years,  please  see your 
policy terms and conditions for details.
By using  the policy successfully on a number of occasions to have the washing 
machine repaired  Mr F had benefitted from the policy  and so he didnt think  the policy 
had been mis-sold.
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicator, but unfortunately due to personal reasons was unable  
to communicate  with this service  for a while, and so the case  closed in 2016. 
At that time D&G had confirmed that if Mr F wanted  to go ahead  and replace the faulty 
washing machine  the cost to Mr F would be £305.05. This was calculated in the following 
way:
Cost of new machine: £544.60
D&G contribution of 55%: £299.53
Mr F contribution of 45%: £245.07
Delivery charge: £19.99 
Outstanding fees on policy: £39.99
D&G agreed  to waive the delivery charge  meaning Mr F would need  to pay £285.06  in total.  
Mr F didnt  go ahead with this at the time and contacted this service again  in 2018 to ask for 
the case to be passed  to an ombudsman.  The case was reopened and an investigator  
contacted D&G to see if it was still prepared to replace the washing machine under the 
claim.
D&G said that as so much time had passed it was likely Mr F had replaced the washing 
machine and so it was prepared to offer him a cash settlement of its contribution  instead. It 
looked into what the cost of an equivalent machine would be now, as opposed to when  Mr F 
first claimed, and it came back with the following:
Cost of new machine: £699.00
D&G contribution 55%: £384.45
Outstanding fees on policy: waived by D&G
In summary,  if Mr F wants to go ahead with the claim now, D&G  would  pay him a cash 
settlement of £384.45. The investigator relayed this to Mr F. But he decided  he would still 
like the matter looked into by an ombudsman and so the matter  has been passed  to me to 
decide.
Ref: DRN10671163my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
I appreciate Mr F says that as his claim isnt being  covered in the way he thinks it should  
hes not being given new for old  the policy  was mis-sold to him. I dont see things quite the 
same. The issue  Im looking at in this matter is whether the policy  was mis-sold to Mr F. And 
I dont think it was. Ill explain why.
The initial period was for four years  and during this time the new for old part of the policy  
was in force and so this period isnt in question  as Mr F had the benefit he says he wanted.  
And Mr F accepts that he wasnt mis-sold the policy in 1994 when he first took it out.
So the part Ive focused on are the renewals of this policy after his washing machine was 
over 5 years  old.
When the initial 4 year period ended it was a choice for Mr F to decide if he wanted  to renew 
the policy each  year. D&G has told us it sent a renewal invitation  and a copy  of the policy 
terms and conditions each year to Mr F. Mr F has not disputed that he received the renewal 
invitation each  year; although he has said he didnt receive the terms and conditions with 
them. 
As noted above,  the renewal notice  contained a statement  in bold telling Mr F that hed 
receive a brand new washing  machine  if his one was under  five years old and beyond 
economical repair. Even if I accept that D&G failed each year to send out the terms and 
conditions Im satisfied that the bold statement in the renewal invitation was enough to draw  
Mr Fs attention to the fact that the policy didnt provide  the same  new for old cover once the 
washing machine  had become more than five years old. So I think  he ought to have 
reasonably been aware of the change and if, as he says, he wouldnt have bought  the policy 
but for this, he couldve decided  not to renew the policy.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied  that the policy wasnt mis-sold to Mr F. It follows  I wont 
be asking it to do anything  to put things  right.
Notwithstanding what Ive set out above,  I also dont feel itd be fair or reasonable for me to 
ignore the fact that Mr F has claimed  under his policy six times across different policy years 
including his most recent claim. All of these claims were successful and resulted in D&G 
paying for the washing machine to be repaired or  in the case  of his 2016 claim  the offer 
of a cash settlement.  So Im satisfied that Mr F has benefitted from having the policy in 
place. And I think that D&Gs proposed settlement of the 2016 claim is fair and in line with 
the policy terms. In fact, I think its likely that this is more than I wouldve asked it to do. I say 
this because the offer goes beyond the policy terms as it has also agreed to cover delivery 
costs and remaining  monthly fees,  which  were  due to be paid by Mr F under the policy,  as 
well as updating the value of the claim to reflect the cost of the equivalent washing machine 
on the market in 2019.
Ref: DRN10671164my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Ref: DRN1067116