K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that a subsidence  claim under  their home insurance policy  
has been unfairly declined by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
Before buying  their property in 2014 Mr and Mrs J were advised by their surveyor that 
there was a gap between  the wooden  floor and the skirting  board on one wall in the hall. 
The surveyor said this was because the addition  of a shower room had increased the 
loading on the floor.
In 2017 they noticed the suspended timber floor seemed to have sunk  further. They  
called in a structural engineer who said it was due to subsidence. So they made a claim 
to RSA. It appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim.
RSA said the concrete  base below the house was moving. It also said damage to solid 
floors or damage caused by solid floors  moving  wasnt covered by their policy  unless 
the foundations under the outside  walls of their house were  damaged by the same  
cause and at the same time. It said there  was no subsidence damage  to their walls. 
But it paid for damage to their pipework under the floor under the accidental  damage 
section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs J complained  to RSA. It accepted that thered been some  delay in looking 
at their claim  and waived the £200  excess which Mr and Mrs J would otherwise have 
had to pay. Theyve now had their floor repaired.
After Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to this service, RSA appointed another expert 
to investigate the damage. That expert said there  was no evidence  of subsidence 
damage to the external or internal walls  of the property. He thought the concrete slab 
had dropped because it had been cast onto poorly compacted fill. He said other cracks 
were due to thermal expansion and contraction  of the stone or block work rather  than 
subsidence.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  
I thought the latest report had been prepared by an appropriately qualified expert whod 
visited Mr and Mrs Js property. I said hed given a convincing  explanation of what  had 
caused the damage to Mr and Mrs Js property. He hadnt suggested that any further 
reports should be obtained.
I noted that the expert author of the latest  report was instructed by RSA alone as 
opposed to RSA and Mr and Mrs J. I said that meant  strictly speaking  he couldnt be 
considered to be completely independent  of RSA. But RSA had confirmed that the expert 
had no direct links to it or its loss adjuster. Also due to the location of the property  RSA 
said it had struggled  to get anyone but the expert  in question to visit it and Mr and Mrs J 
had agreed to the appointment. Under the circumstances I thought it would be 
disproportionate to require RSA to start the process again.
I found the latest report to be well-reasoned and detailed. I noted that the latest  expert 
and RSAs loss adjuster  agreed that it was likely the concrete oversite had dropped  
because of poorly compacted fill. As there  wasnt any evidence from Mr and Mrs J to 
Ref: DRN12612422show that the damage had been  caused  by something that would be covered under  their 
policy, I thought  RSA was entitled to rely on its expert evidence. So I thought  RSA had 
treated Mr and Mrs J fairly and reasonably in rejecting  their claim.
RSA had nothing  to say in response to my provisional decision.  
In summary  Mr and Mrs J said:
RSAs expert was only speculating when he said the damage had been caused by 
poorly compacted  fill because he hadnt investigated  the fill.
They allowed the insurers  expert to inspect  their property but not on the basis  that 
theyd be bound by his report.
The fact that theyd agreed to the further inspections shouldnt  be used against them.
They would  like me to require RSA to obtain  another report from a jointly  appointed 
independent expert.
They have  suffered inconvenience and delay as a result of failings on the part of RSA.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that RSAs expert didnt open up the foundations of Mr and Mrs Js property and 
didnt carry out any testing of materials. But RSA isnt obliged  to do this. It only has to show 
that its more likely than not that the damage  wasnt caused by something covered by their 
policy. As mentioned  above, I found the experts report  persuasive and his conclusion  was in 
line with that of RSAs loss adjuster   that there wasnt subsidence damage to the external 
or internal walls of the property and that the damage had been caused by poorly  compacted  
fill. I dont think RSA treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly  in not carrying out more detailed  
investigations.
I appreciate how disappointing  it must have been for Mr and Mrs J to agree to a further 
inspection and then find that it supported RSAs case in declining part of their claim. They 
arent bound to accept  the experts report.  But in the absence  of any comparable  evidence to 
dispute the conclusions of RSAs  expert  and loss adjuster, I think it was reasonable for RSA 
to rely on them.  
For the reasons  mentioned above  Im not persuaded it would be appropriate  to require RSA 
to commission a further report from an independent  expert. 
Its not in dispute  that RSA delayed giving Mr and Mrs J a decision on their claim. But it 
credited them with £200 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience  they suffered  as a 
result of that. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. I understand that they have 
suffered a lot of stress  as a result of their claim being declined  but since I dont think RSA 
treated them  unfairly in this respect, I cant  hold it responsible for that.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 September 2019.
Ref: DRN12612423Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1261242