K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that MBNA Limited  mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mr B. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  MBNA says it sold Mr B 
the policy by phone  a few days  after he sent an application form for the card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Mr B states strongly that there was never a phone call from MBNA to sell PPI; and, if there  
had been, he wouldnt have taken it. He says the PPI was added without his knowledge. 
However, I have to bear in mind that this all happened about 18 years ago, and so it wouldnt 
be surprising if details  had faded   though I accept that some people  do have very clear  
memories of such events. More importantly, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that MBNA 
acted wrongly unless there was reasonable supporting evidence  of this. Where  someone 
has said another person or organisation has done  something wrong,  fairness requires that 
they present evidence  that this probably  did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require an 
individual or organisation to prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such  a 
long time ago. 
I know that it was common for card companies, such as MBNA, to speak to customers by 
phone to have  another  try at selling  PPI. This kind of phone call would typically be a short 
time after the customer applied for the card and probably when the card itself had just been  
sent out. And the dates  on MBNAs  records would fit in with this. Doing this wasnt  wrong in 
itself, as long as the customer was given a clear  choice during the phone call  and the 
evidence we have  suggests MBNA did train its staff to give a clear choice at the time this 
PPI started. 
So, although  I do accept  Mr B feels very much that he has been  the victim of mis-selling,  
without stronger evidence  I cant fairly  say the PPI was added without Mr Bs consent. 
We always check to see whether there are other reasons to say the PPI was mis-sold. But 
having done this, I dont  think  they apply. Ill explain why:
I dont think MBNA  recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Bs 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well MBNA  explained the PPI. (And I accept that Mr B is 
certain he never had any contact with MBNA  anyway about buying PPI.) Its possible 
that information MBNA gave Mr B, about the PPI, wasnt as clear as it should have 
Ref: DRN10113592been. If I think this, I then go on to see whether fuller information  is likely to have 
made a difference to whether a customer would take PPI. But I dont think, in Mr Bs 
circumstances, full information about costs  and benefits would be likely to affect 
whether he took the PPI. Hes told us he didnt have  entitlement to employer  sick 
pay, and didnt have savings at the time. He would have relied  on the income  of his 
partner or help from family. But, even if such help was available,  it might not be 
enough to cover all the living expenses Mr B would still have to meet once hed lost 
his income through sickness or unemployment. So, even with the fullest  information 
about PPI, someone  in his situation might  have thought PPI potentially useful. And it 
doesnt look like hed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions  in the 
policy. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint,  for the reasons given above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1011359