K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation)  gave her incorrect  
information about buying foreign currency with her supermarket credit  card.  Miss A also 
complains that Creation  dealt with her complaint poorly.
background
Miss A has a cashback  credit card issued  by Creation that is connected to a supermarket. 
She was considering using her card to buy foreign currency, so contacted Creation to check 
if shed get cashback on the purchase. Creation told her that shed get 1% cashback and 
wouldnt be charged a fee if she used her card in the supermarket connected to it.
Following the call Miss A bought foreign currency from a shop which wasnt connected to the 
card. She didnt  receive  any cashback  and was charged a handling fee. She says shed 
assumed shed get 0.2% cashback  as thats what she normally  gets on other  purchases  
made outside of the supermarket. She also says she assumed she wouldnt be charged  a 
handling fee if she was getting  cashback. So she complained to Creation.
Creation didnt uphold Miss As complaint. They said that they hadnt given Miss A incorrect 
information. They said that she hadnt got cashback and had been charged a fee because  
shed not used her card in the supermarket connected to it. Creation  also said that this was 
set out in Miss As cards  terms and conditions. Miss A wasnt happy with Creations 
response. Miss A was also unhappy that shed been on the phone  for a long time when she 
called Creation to complain and had heard someone  singing in the background. She 
complained about the time shed  been on the phone and the singing and was unhappy  that 
Creation had ignored this part of her complaint. So she complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  think Creation had done anything wrong as he said they hadnt  given  
incorrect information. He also said we couldnt look at the customer service part of the 
complaint. Miss A was unhappy with this response and asked for her complaint  to be looked  
at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my involvement, Creation has accepted that they should have told Miss A:
a)that she wouldnt get any cashback even  if shed used  her credit card to buy currency  
from the supermarket  linked to her card; and
b)that she wouldnt have  been  charged  a fee either.
In other  words, Miss A wouldnt have got 1% cashback if shed used  her card to buy 
currency from the supermarket linked  to her card as Creation had previously  suggested. 
Thats important because  what  I have  to decide is what Miss A would have done had she 
been given the correct  information, and whether shes made a loss as a result  of being given 
incorrect information. 
Miss A is conscious of the cashback  she receives. She says on a call with Creation that she 
tries to maximise  the cashback  she earns  as it all adds up. She also called Creation 
Ref: DRN12593392specifically to check if shed receive  cashback  when buying currency. This suggests she was 
deciding whether or not it would be beneficial to buy currency  using her credit card. It also 
suggests the answer to that question  would be a big factor  in her decision. Had she been 
told she wouldnt receive any cashback  if she used her credit  card to buy currency,  I think its 
more likely than not that she would have  used her debit card to do so. Had she done so, she 
wouldnt have been charged a fee. In other words, Miss A ended up paying a handling fee 
that she wouldnt otherwise have paid because of the information Creation gave her. So I 
think its fair to tell Creation to refund this fee.
In their response to Miss A, Creation said that the terms  and conditions  of her card say when 
cashback is paid.  I accept that this is the case.  However when Miss A called customer 
services, she said she was calling because she found the terms and conditions confusing. In 
the circumstances, I think  Miss A was entitled to rely on the information she was given. In 
other words, I dont think it would be fair not to uphold  the complaint because  the correct  
information about what cashback  Miss A would  be charged was in the terms and conditions.
Miss A has complained  about  the service she received. In this case, because the complaint 
about the service  shes received is in relation to a complaint Im looking it, I can consider 
how the complaint  was handled. I accept that Miss A was on the phone for a long time and 
that it must  have been frustrating to hear singing in the background given the nature of her 
call. However Miss A was on the phone for a long time because the call handler wanted  to 
address all of her concerns and to ensure  they listened to the previous  call while  she was on 
the phone. Although the singing in the background wouldve been frustrating, its difficult  to 
control noise from other employees in a busy office.  So I dont agree Miss A received poor 
service from Creation when they were handling her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im requiring Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to refund Miss A the 
charge for buying foreign currency. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
 
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1259339