K821x#15complaint
Mr Cs unhappy Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G)  cancelled his term 
assurance and critical illness policy and refused to pay his critical illness claim as a result.  
Mr C is being represented by Ms D, but for ease  Ill refer to all actions  as those of Mr C. 
background
In 2012, Mr C took out a term assurance  policy with L&G, including critical illness cover.  In 
February 2018 he stopped making payments. The policy was then cancelled  in favour of a 
cheaper policy with L&G in March 2018.  
In April 2018, Mr C contacted an out of hours  GP, as he had a sore throat for four days as 
well as ear pain. Mr C was told to use pain relief and follow this up with his GP. 
In May 2018, L&G cancelled  Mr Cs new policy from when it started, due to information  it 
says it found when it checked his application. And, as Mr C was left without cover, he asked 
L&G to reinstate his 2012 policy. It agreed  to do this but he first of all had to complete a 
declaration of health form from the date he last paid towards this policy, which was in 
February 2018. 
On 25 May 2018, Mr C went to see his GP and a nurse noted a first presentation of otalgia 
(earache). His medical records  say he had 6wks left otalgia. His records also mentioned 
occasional headaches. Mr C was given antibiotics and told to use steam inhalations,  with a 
GP review in five days if it worsened. 
Four days later, Mr C attended an emergency  GP appointment to review his earache.  Notes 
say that 6 weeks ago Mr C had otalgia.  He had been given antibiotics, but still had 
discomfort and intermittent otalgia.  Mr C was prescribed ear spray and told to see his GP if 
symptoms worsened or he had further concerns, and to see a dentist if it persisted.
On 11 June 2018, Mr C attended a pre-arranged  blood pressure check  with a nurse at his 
GP practice.  The following day, he completed L&Gs health  form declaring that he had 
received antibiotics  for an ear infection,  that was cured. Later that month L&G reinstated Mr 
Cs policy on its original terms, after he made up the missed premiums.  
Then, on 2 July 2018, Mr C again went to see his GP, who noted a new problem of 
intermittent otalgia  and that he was having pain swallowing. Mr C went back  for a review of 
this on 20 July 2018. The notes say he still had discomfort  in his left ear and now has pain 
swallowing, but no dental pain. Mr Cs GP referred him for suspected cancer. 
In August  2018,  a hospital doctor said Mr C had a history of left side otalgia present for 
three months. And later that month, the surgeon that reviewed  Mr C said he has continued  
to have persistent  left ear pain and odynophagia  since March. 
In September  2018, Mr C was diagnosed with cancer of the pharynx. And his consultant  said 
Mr C explained to me that this all started off with pain in the ear in February time which did 
not respond to antibiotic treatment
Mr C then made a claim on his policy. After reviewing the medical evidence and speaking 
with Mr C to find out why he filled out the health form in the way he did, L&G said it was 
Ref: DRN13408772cancelling his policy and refunding his premiums. It said while Mr C declared an ear 
infection, evidence  shows his symptoms were ongoing and persistent. And that during  its call 
with Mr C, he told it he shouldnt have said this was cured.
Mr C complained to L&G.  In response, it reiterated that Mr C should have said his symptoms 
were ongoing  and he acted deliberately or recklessly  by not doing so. L&G said it wouldnt 
have reinstated  his policy if it had known. It also said it incorrectly  refunded  his premiums 
back to 2012,  but its since  confirmed it wont be recovering  these.  
Unhappy with this, Mr C brought his complaint to our service,  via his representative Ms D. 
He said he thought his earache  was cured as his symptoms subsided with the spray, he 
wasnt receiving treatment  or investigation for it and hadnt been asked to attend a follow  up. 
And that there  was no suspicion of cancer. 
Mr C also says L&G shouldnt base its decision on the call he had with it, as he was on 
medication and had undergone chemotherapy, so it was difficult for him to think clearly  and 
follow a conversation. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint. She said it was reasonable to think  his 
symptoms had subsided  when he completed  L&Gs health form. And that a layman like Mr C 
believed his condition  was cured.  So he hadnt  made a misrepresentation. And she asked 
L&G to pay Mr Cs claim, under the policy definition of cancer, as well as £500 compensation 
to make up for the distress caused  to him by this matter.
L&G didnt agree. It says Mr C went back to his GP as his symptoms  were continuing around 
the time he completed  its health form. It said evidence shows Mr Cs pain was ongoing for 
some time, and just being pain free on that day wasnt enough for him to say it was cured. It 
said the information Mr C gave it over the phone should be considered, as well as the clinic 
letters, which show his earache never  resolved or responded to treatment.  
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me for a decision. 
Having reviewed all the information, I told L&G there was information I thought it hadnt 
considered, or had misinterpreted, when assessing Mr Cs claim. For example, medical 
records note on two separate  occasions that his earache was intermittent. And this hadnt 
been noted by L&G during its assessment. And Mr C also visited  the nurse  at his GP surgery 
the day before he filled out the form and didnt raise any concerns  about his earache,  which  
was also not noted by L&G. Given that he had been  quite  diligent in seeking medical help 
when his earache was bothering him, I thought  this suggested it had subsided  at that point.
I also said that when  considering why Mr C might  have used the word cured, Im likely to 
place more weight  on what the medical  evidence shows  he told his GP, as this is a 
contemporaneous account of what Mr C was experiencing at the time. Mr Cs call with L&G 
happened months later, after his stressful diagnosis and treatment. And I think Mr C was 
trying to explain why he completed the form in the way he did now he knows  he has cancer.  
So, it gives  less of an insight into what was happening when he filled out the health  form.
I asked L&G to look again at the claim,  taking what  I had said into consideration. In 
response, L&Gs position was unchanged and it made several  points, summarised below. 
L&G says Mr C told it that when  treatment didnt work he was told to take paracetamol,  but 
after a certain amount  of time he felt this wasnt right and it turns out he had a tumour. L&G 
Ref: DRN13408773thinks this shows Mr C didnt return to his GP until 2 July 2018, as hed lost faith in it. And 
when he did it was for a new symptom  and he still had ongoing ear pain. 
L&G says the GP notes  dont clarify  whats meant by intermittent. And that while  
Mr Cs earache  might  have subsided temporarily, this doesnt mean it was cured. It feels 
this didnt go away, despite treatment, as Mr C told it he was given drops  that didnt do 
anything and for something  that was never going to ease. And it says the health form 
included guidance  that he should  let it know if his condition was ongoing. 
L&G thinks  that, while Mr C spoke with the benefit of hindsight during elements of his call 
with it, he had a clear recollection  of the events  and apologised for answering in the way he 
did on its form. It says he was acknowledging  his symptoms didnt go away, despite  the 
treatments. 
L&G also says it didnt  know Mr C attended a review with a nurse  the day before he 
completed the health form. And that it wouldnt have expected  him to raise his earache  
during a pre-arranged visit to check his blood pressure. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding  approach  to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and insurer  when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA  places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading),  provided 
the insurer has asked  a clear question. If the consumer  doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions  accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
On the health  form, Mr C was asked:
Since 22/02/2018 have you had any illness, injury  or medical symptoms* (whether a doctor 
has been consulted  or not), or had or been  advised  to have any medical consultation, 
hospital investigation, treatment, operation, blood test of psychiatric advice?
Mr C answered  yes. So he was asked  to give information on the date when the illness,  
injury or medical symptom first occurred, as well as details including type of disorder, 
nature of any tests  carried out and results, treatment and if condition is ongoing.. 
And, Mr C answered 30/04/18 Ear infection, Antibiotics, cured 
Having considered these questions, Im satisfied  they are clear and specific.  And its not in 
dispute that Mr C correctly answered yes when he was asked if hed had any illness, injury 
or medical  symptoms. So the issue for me to decide is whether, when Mr C was asked for 
more information  about this, he took reasonable care by saying his earache   that he noted  
down as an ear infection  - was cured .  
I recognise L&G feels Mr C acknowledged during  his call with it that he shouldnt  have 
completed its health form in the way he did. But, having listened to the call, I think  Mr C was 
Ref: DRN13408774summarising what happened into five minutes, months after he filled out the health form, and 
after a stressful diagnosis and treatment.  I also think its clear he was explaining why he 
completed the form in the way he did now he knows he has cancer, so with the benefit of 
hindsight, throughout the entire  call. And that his apology comes  from knowing  now that hes 
made an error, given  his later diagnosis of cancer.  I dont take it to mean he knew  he was 
making an error at the time.
And while Mr C later told his consultants that his pain had been persistent and present for 
three months, this account of his experiences  was provided many months after the health  
form was completed and after he became aware  his earache was as a result of cancer.  Im 
satisfied Mr Cs GP notes are a more  contemporaneous and reliable indication  of what he 
was experiencing at the point in time when he completed the form. So, Ive attached more 
weight to these  when considering why he might have said his earache was cured on it. 
I can see Mr Cs last visit to his GP for his earache, before completing the health form on   
12 June 2018,  was on 29 May 2018.  During this he reported his symptoms as intermittent 
and he was given  an ear spray, with no scheduled follow up. And he didnt return to his GP 
about this again until 2 July 2018,  when he also reported his symptoms as intermittent.  
I think its significant that five weeks passed  between these visits. And that Mr Cs GP noted 
his symptoms as intermittent on both occasions,  as these two visits are the closest  in time to 
when he completed  L&Gs  health  form. While the notes dont detail what was meant by 
intermittent, Im satisfied that the notes show Mr Cs symptoms werent continuous during 
this time.  
I also think its significant that on 11 June 2018  between the above GP visits and the day 
before Mr C completed L&Gs health  form  he attended a blood pressure check with a 
nurse at his GP practice and didnt mention his earache. And, given that he had proactively 
sought medical advice on a number  of occasions  in relation to his earache, Im satisfied that 
its likely  he would have told the nurse  or arranged a GP visit while  he was there if he was 
still experiencing pain or symptoms at that point. As Mr C didnt do this, it suggests he wasnt 
experiencing pain or symptoms around  the time he completed L&Gs health form. 
 
Mr C told us he said his earache was cured, as he considered the matter  concluded, as it 
had subsided within a few days of the spray hed been given and there was no planned 
follow up. And Mr C had been  given the ear spray a few weeks before he completed the 
health form, which was the last treatment  he received for earache.  So, while  we now know 
Mr Cs symptoms came back and the spray didnt  resolve the issue,  I think  its reasonable 
that Mr C thought it had at the time. 
And, as Mr C answered yes on the health form and then went  on to make the disclosures 
he did, this shows me he was trying to be open  and honest with L&G. In which  case, it 
seems unlikely Mr C was trying to hide anything  when he said his earache was cured, 
which leads me to think he believed it was.
In summary,  for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Mr C to 
think the problem  he had with earache was cured  at the point he completed L&Gs health 
form. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr C to use that particular word,  as its 
another way for a layman to say resolved.
Ref: DRN13408775This means  I dont  think Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation 
on L&Gs  reinstatement  form.  And it follows that I dont  think L&G should have avoided his 
policy and refused his claim. 
L&G hasnt disputed that, but for the issue of misrepresentation, Mr Cs claim for his cancer 
would have been payable in line with the policy definition of cancer.  And, for clarity,  I think  
based on the information Ive seen, this has been met considering that Mr Cs histology  
confirms he had invasive  neck cancer, that was also present in his lymph  node. 
In which  case,  I think  L&G should pay Mr Cs claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, less the amount its already refunded  in premiums.
L&Gs decision to avoid  Mr Cs policy took place  during a time hes been recovering from his 
illness, so its understandably caused  him distress  and inconvenience during a difficult  time.   
I think an amount of £500 compensation  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  Mr Cs complaint  and require 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr Cs claim in line with policy terms and conditions, less the amount its already  
refunded to him in premiums. To this it should  also add 8% simple  interest  per 
annum from the date of Mr Cs claim to the date of settlement1; and
pay Mr C £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Martina Ryan 
Ombudsman
1 If Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mr C a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1340877