K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc closed his credit card account and hasnt explained 
why.
background
On the 22 January 2019 Mr C received a letter from Lloyds advising  that Since we wrote to 
you about the changes to your credit card, youve changed the way you manage your 
account and we will be closing your account  in just over two months  time.  Im sorry for the 
inconvenience this may cause.
The account  was subsequently closed  at the end of March 2019.
Mr C was very upset and distressed by this. He spoke with Lloyds credit  card team, 
complaints team, and his local branch manager. But says Lloyds failed  to tell him why it had 
closed his account, or how it thought  hed been managing it differently. 
In response to Mr Cs complaint Lloyds did send him a further  letter advising that the closing 
of his account had been a business decision, and that when it carries out account  reviews it 
looks at data it holds,  and information held by credit reference agencies. It also offered him 
£30 compensation  for the time he spent on the phone about this matter. But it said that it 
couldnt give him a specific reason for its decision to close  his account.
Mr C made  a subject access request to Lloyds, and says that he cant see that it had any 
reason to suspect  he was a risk to its business. He also obtained a copy  of his credit  report,  
and feels he has an excellent credit rating. 
Our investigator said they were sorry to see this matter  had caused  Mr C upset, but 
explained that the terms and conditions of the account permitted Lloyds to end his credit  
agreement, normally  by giving two months  notice. The investigator noted that Lloyds had 
followed the terms and conditions correctly here, and explained that it wasnt  obliged  to give 
Mr C a reason for its decision  to close his account. And that our service couldnt change  a 
businesss commercial decision.
Mr C didnt accept this opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. He 
says that Lloyds initial letter suggested that his account was closed due to mismanagement  
on his part. And that this accusation is untrue. So he wants  to know what  evidence Lloyds 
used to reach this conclusion. 
The case  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr C will be very disappointed,  but 
Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator here.
Ive looked closely  at the terms  and conditions that were applicable  to Mr Cs account.  I can 
see that these  say the credit agreement can be ended by either  Mr C or Lloyds. And that 
Lloyds will usually give two months notice if it chooses to take this action.
Ref: DRN18298332Lloyds gave Mr C just over two months notice here.  So Im satisfied that it followed the 
terms and conditions of his account  when  it closed it. And I cant say it acted  unreasonably  
when it did this.
I appreciate Mr C is upset Lloyds closed his account. And I know hes hoping  Ill ask it to 
explain in more detail  why it made  this decision.  I understand its frustrating, but Lloyds is 
entitled to make commercial decisions like this. And like our investigator explained, it doesnt 
have to explain its reasons for doing so to Mr C, or to our service. 
Mr C feels that Lloyds  did given a reason for its decision when it said that hed changed the 
way hed been managing  his account. And he strongly disagrees with this statement. Hes 
disappointed that Lloyds hasnt expanded on it any further. And I can see hes gone to some 
trouble to try and work  out what it might have meant by this. 
I appreciate Lloyds initial closure  letter  caused  Mr C some  distress. But it isnt compelled to 
explain any reasoning  it has given any further. And in this case  I can see that it went  on to 
clarify to Mr C that it had taken a business  decision here - which  as Ive said is something it 
was entitled to do.
Lloyds explained  to Mr C how he could appeal its decision to close his account.  And whilst I 
understand he didnt find this to be a straightforward  process,  I can see Lloyds reconsidered 
the matter for him  albeit  it reached the same conclusion. So Im satisfied that its given 
appropriate consideration to Mr Cs concerns about its decision.
Lloyds offered Mr C £30 compensation for the time he spent discussing this matter  with it 
over the phone. Considering everything  that happened here,  I think this amount is 
reasonable to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above. Its now for Mr C to decide 
whether to accept  the £30 compensation already offered by Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1829833