K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking a credit  card.  She applied for the 
credit card and PPI policy at a meeting.
At the time,  Mrs M was employed as a machinist.  From what shes  told us, she was entitled 
to no more than statutory pay for sickness  or redundancy and had £1000  in savings she 
could use to pay her credit card if she couldnt work. Mrs M has said she was in good health.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment, and also had life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mrs Ms card balance in 
the event of a successful  disability or unemployment claim. The life cover  would,  subject to 
its terms, clear  the balance on death. Barclays  has told us the policy  cost at the time 70p per 
£100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium  would  continue  to have to be paid 
during a successful  claim and it did attract  interest.
Barclays has sent us evidence to show in 2003 the credit card account  was closed.
Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I 
will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In summary, 
Mrs Ms representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs M wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ms representatives believe there  to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Barclays should have told Mrs M 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs M and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and 
The information Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
Ref: DRN13029302As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself was concluded in 2003.  That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ms case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
Ref: DRN13029303professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority.
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Barclays gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below.
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mrs M says she had no interest  in 
PPl and it was just included as part of the package with her card.  But the credit  card 
application form had a separate PPI section   with boxes to tick to say either Yes,  I want  
cover or No, I do not require  cover. On Mrs Ms form, which she signed, the Yes box is 
ticked  and I think Mrs M wouldve  known  the No box couldve been ticked instead if she 
didnt want the cover. Taking everything  into account, I think its more likely Mrs M knew  the 
policy was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Barclays provide  advice?
Ref: DRN13029304Barclays says it gave  advice during  this sale. Mrs M hasnt said Barclays didnt give advice. 
Taking all this into account, Im persuaded Barclays gave advice. This means Barclays had 
to advise Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether the policy was 
appropriate or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Barclays took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs M. There is no record of what the adviser  discussed  in relation to 
the policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some 
limited information about  Mrs Ms financial circumstances, but there is no specific  evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mrs M would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
her needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest  Barclays considered whether Mrs M had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Barclays did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs M given her circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Barclays advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs M had a need for the policy  it seems  likely her ability  to continue  to meet her credit 
card repayments wouldve  been put under strain if she was not working  for an extended 
period of time  even allowing for her statutory benefits and the savings shes  told us of.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs M. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs M. There  was 
nothing about  her employment  or occupation which would have made  it difficult  for her to 
claim. And she hasnt  told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that couldve 
affected her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover  for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim for 
disability or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mrs Ms circumstances.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Barclays  gave Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
Barclays was recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs M was given  a very broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mrs M would  have been told this  at the very least   during the 
Ref: DRN13029305discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mrs M would have taken the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was. Also the application form she signed  described the policy  
as cover against unemployment, accident, sickness and death  - which would have given her 
some idea of what the policy was for.
Im also satisfied Mrs M wouldve  realised the policy wasnt  free and its likely she wouldve  
had some understanding of how much it cost before agreeing to take it. Also the PPI section 
of her application form refers to the debiting of a monthly premium for the cover.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Barclays gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mrs M 
agreed to take the policy. Even  if that information  were in a leaflet or policy summary Mrs M 
might have been given, I think its more  likely  than not that she based  her decision on the 
things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs M, Im not persuaded Barclays  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mrs M. Im not persuaded Barclays gave Mrs M all the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ms representative  considers to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs M about  the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have  gone  further  and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Barclays shortcomings have  on Mrs M? To what extent did Mrs M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ref: DRN13029306Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs M. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs M 
would have still taken  the policy, had Barclays done  things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Barclays took the steps it should have done  to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mrs M, Ive found the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Barclays had explained things 
properly, Mrs M would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken the policy in 
any event.
Mrs M says she would not have taken  it and believes  that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mrs M had some interest in taking payment protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Barclays advised her there was a suitable product she could 
buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was unable to work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  she concluded she wanted  that product. 
But she made that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning what  she thought she 
was getting is not exactly  what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs M ought  reasonably to have known she would  have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Barclays didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So while  Mrs M 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims related to any health  issue Mrs M knew about or which  she 
asked about or received advice or treatment for from a medical practitioner in the 12 
months before the policy start;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs M wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
Ref: DRN13029307The requirement that to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs M not only be stopped from 
doing her own job, or any similar job, but also be stopped from doing any paid work her 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified her to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking  the policy.
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of the sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mrs M didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I think  she still had 
some good  reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs M 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mrs M had known  she could only claim for disability if she were not only stopped from 
doing her own job, or any similar job, but also stopped from doing any paid work her 
experience, education or training reasonably  qualified her to do, it might have played  into her 
thinking about what to do  and I accept it may have given her pause  for thought.  But, given 
her circumstances and the limited  other  means  she had to make  her payments if she wasnt 
working, on balance  I think she wouldve still been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not that Mrs M would  still have taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to what she 
thought she was getting and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit in a difficult  time, 
notwithstanding her employment benefits and other  means. And in those  circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs M would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN13029308I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs M 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mrs M wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Barclays should pay Mrs M compensation, as that would put her in a better 
position than she would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.
Im also aware that Mrs M thinks Barclays misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclays statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mrs M, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 1997 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Barclays negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs M and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019. 
Ref: DRN13029309Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1302930