K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted unfairly  and 
unreasonably by charging him more interest for his mortgage than it shouldve and adjusting 
his balance without  his consent.  He wants compensation.
background
Mr J had a mortgage  with Halifax. He said that Halifax wrote  to him saying that it had 
reviewed his account and found  that it had charged  him too much  interest,  and adjusted  his 
balance accordingly.  Mr J was unhappy  about  this, felt his consent shouldve been  obtained 
to change his balance, and said Halifax had worsened his mental health issues as a result.
Mr J complained to Halifax. It said that it had taken action at the request of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA),  paid the extra interest charged and adjusted  Mr Js 
balance so more  was interest free. Halifax said that it had put matters  right and doing so 
didnt justify compensation.
Mr J complained to us. The adjudicators view was that Mr J wouldnt have been aware of 
Halifaxs mistake  if it hadnt contacted him and told him. He thought that Halifax acted fairly 
and reasonably in telling Mr J about  the error and in putting it right. It meant  that Mr J had to 
pay less each month and was paying less interest in the adjudicators view. He didnt  uphold  
the complaint.
Mr J disagreed. He didnt feel hed been compensated for Halifaxs  error.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role isnt to punish businesses but to 
put consumers  back into the position  that they shouldve  been in all along  if the error  hadnt 
been made.
Theres no dispute that Halifax made  a mistake when administering the mortgage. Mr J 
couldnt have  been caused  trouble  and upset before Halifax corrected its mistake as he 
didnt know about  it. And while I note Mr J has made the point that he was in financial 
difficulties at the time the error was being made, if the error hadnt  been made, Mr J would 
still have been  in difficulties as he is unemployed. Theres no financial loss due to the actions 
taken by Halifax to put matters right.
Mr J wants compensation for the trouble and upset caused by being  told that Halifax  made  a 
mistake and has put things right. His consent to put things right isnt required as all Halifax  
did was ensure the mortgage was being  administered as it shouldve  been all along   his 
consent was effectively given when he took out the mortgage. And I dont think Halifax  acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in following FCA instructions, telling  a consumer about it and taking 
the required action.
Ref: DRN15798312my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject  my decision before 
28 February 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1579831