K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a whole of life protection  
policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P met an adviser  in 1997  and he recommended they take out a Lifetime Security 
Plan. It was a unit linked  whole of life policy, set up on a standard  cover  basis.  The premium 
was £15 a month and the sum assured was £51,800, which would be paid out on the death 
of the second  plan holder.  
In December 2018 Scottish Widows  wrote  to Mr and Mrs P to say they hadnt carried out the 
reviews on the plan correctly. Following  work  to put that right,  Mr and Mrs P were given the 
option of either increasing their monthly  premium to £44.54 or reducing the sum assured to 
£16,800.
Mr and Mrs P complain  that when they took out the plan,  they were  told the premium and 
sum assured were guaranteed to remain at the same level.  
Our investigator didnt  think the plan was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs P. She thought it was 
suitable for them and that the reviewable  nature of the plan was explained in the terms. 
She said that even  if the adviser  had explained the reviewable nature of the plan more 
clearly, Mr and Mrs P would still have taken it out given how much  they wanted to spend and 
their objective in wanting a life policy. The investigator also thought  Lloyds had made a fair 
offer to put things right following the incorrect reviews.  She said Lloyds offer had put Mr and 
Mrs P in a better position than they otherwise would have been.
Mr and Mrs P disagree with our investigator  and have asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Lloyds have accepted  responsibility for 
the sale of the plan and the reviews  that were carried out incorrectly,  so Ill look at both 
issues in this decision.   
At the time Mr and Mrs P took out the policy they were in their early 30s and had two 
dependent children. It appears from the paperwork that the adviser asked Mr and Mrs P 
about their circumstances and financial situation.  They told him their objective  was to provide 
protection for inheritance  tax liability and their budget was £15 a month.
The adviser recommended the Lifetime  Security Plan with a sum assured  of £51,800. 
Under the term of the plan the proceeds  would be paid to the nominated  person without 
probate delays  and inflation to the inheritance tax liability. 
Im satisfied the plan met Mr and Mrs Ps objective in relation  to inheritance tax and the 
premium was affordable  for them. As a standard cover policy,  it was more  likely to pass  its 
reviews for longer than a maximum cover  policy and therefore provide them  with more 
stability and peace  of mind. So, I think the policy was a suitable  recommendation for Mr and 
Mrs P.
Ref: DRN16704672Lloyds should  also have made  sure that Mr and Mrs P were given clear information about  
the plan they were  recommending,  so they could make an informed choice. That would 
include explaining  that the policy was subject to review and the premiums  could change.  
Ive looked at the paperwork thats  available from the time Mr and Mrs P took out the plan. 
Following his meeting  with them,  the adviser  sent Mr and Mrs P a summary of his 
recommendations. That included information about  the plan, including the premium  and sum 
assured, but didnt  mention that it was subject to review. It said Mr and Mrs P had also been 
given a key features document and a schedule.
  
The personal key features schedule  included  more details about the plan, particularly the 
potential benefits,  but did not refer to the policy reviews process. There  was a note saying 
the schedule should be read in conjunction with the key features document.
Lloyds have also provided a copy of the key features document.  On the first page,  under risk 
factors, it says: 
The level of your contribution Is reviewed after 5 years and may be increased if it 
can no longer support  the amount of cover.
If the investment fund(s) performance is not at the required  level,  it may be 
necessary to increase the level of your contributions. 
Mr and Mrs P have  said the key features document related  to an increasing plan. But I 
think this was a generic  document for all Lifetime Security Plans,  with some text explaining 
the particular features  of an increasing plan.
Mr and Mrs P have  also pointed out that their policy schedule describes the cover as a 
level plan. But that means the plan wasnt index linked for inflation. It doesnt  mean  the 
premiums were guaranteed to remain at the same level. 
Mr and Mrs P have  said the adviser told them the premium and sum assured wouldnt  
change for the lifetime  of the policy. Given they had been clear about their budget,  they say 
the adviser would  have  mentioned the possibility of future increases in the premium if he 
thought he was selling them a reviewable  policy.
I cant be sure what was said to Mr and Mrs P in a face to face meeting, particularly one that 
took place more than 20 years  ago. But even if I was to conclude that they werent  given 
sufficiently clear information about the reviewable  nature of the policy, I would then need to 
decide whether  they would have acted differently if they had been.  And based  on what Ive 
seen, I think its most  likely they would still have taken the plan.
I say that because Mr and Mrs P had been clear about their objective and the budget  
available to them. A non-reviewable policy would have met their objective  but would likely 
have been significantly  more expensive. So even if Mr and Mrs P had been given clearer  
information, I think they would have decided  to go ahead and take the policy recommended  
by the adviser.
Overall, Im satisfied the plan was a suitable  recommendation for Mr and Mrs P. And even if 
Lloyds had provided clearer information about the reviews, I still think  Mr and Mrs P would 
have taken it. So, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN16704673policy reviews
In December 2018 Scottish Widows  wrote  to Mr and Mrs P to say that in conducting the 
latest review of their plan,  theyd become aware  they hadnt carried out the earlier reviews 
correctly. 
Scottish Widows  have  said they wrote to Mr and Mrs P following reviews in 2007 and 2012 
to say that no changes were  needed  to maintain their policy.  I note Mr and Mrs P have said 
they didnt receive  these  letters. 
Scottish Widows  told Mr and Mrs P that if the reviews in 2007 and 2012 had been conducted 
correctly, they would have had to increase their premium to maintain the same level of 
cover. So, Mr and Mrs P had been  paying a lower premium to maintain their sum assured 
which wasnt sustainable. Scottish Widows told Mr and Mrs P that, to put things right and to 
take account of the latest review in 2017, they would have to either  increase their monthly 
premium to £44.54  or reduce the sum assured to £16,800.
Where an insurer has failed to conduct  reviews  as they should, we would expect them to 
carry out the reviews  correctly and reconstitute the policy based on what the customer  would 
have done (or likely  would have done) at each review. Our service might  not recommend 
that the policyholder pay any missed premiums to bring the policy  up to date. But the insurer  
could still require the policyholder to pay a much  higher premium from that point on. 
We wouldnt generally expect the business to pay into the fund so that the policy
could be maintained for the longer term.
Our service asked Scottish Widows to reconstruct what would have happened to Mr and 
Mrs Ps policy if they had calculated the 2007  and 2012 reviews as they should have. 
Having looked  at what Scottish  Widows  have done, Im satisfied theyve brought  the policy  
up to date correctly.  But in addition to what we would  normally  expect, I can see Scottish 
Widows are also investing money into the plan. Their aim is to make the policy more 
sustainable in the longer term, although it will still be reviewable and the premiums could still 
increase. 
In other  words, the business  is now offering not only to make up for its mistake but also to try 
and ensure the policy is sustainable in the longer run rather  than just to the next review. 
Im satisfied that what Scottish  Widows  have  done puts Mr and Mrs P in a better  position  
than if they had done what  we would normally recommend. So, I wont be asking Scottish  
Widows to do anything more. And I would encourage Mr and Mrs P to let Scottish Widows 
know if they would like to accept their offer and increase  the monthly premium to maintain 
the sum assured on the policy.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs P that Ive looked  carefully at everything they have said.
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for them, but I wont be upholding their 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint against  Lloyds  Bank PLC.
 
Ref: DRN16704674Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 February  2021.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN1670467