K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy that Mr and Mrs G bought  in 1999, in 
connection with a further advance they took out on the joint mortgage theyd arranged in 
1984. The policy provided cover for Mrs G if she couldnt work  because of accident,  sickness  
or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Gs needs?
-Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs G the information  they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr and Mrs G are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have  done  something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 
Mr and Mrs G say they were put under pressure to take out the PPI, and that Halifax didnt 
give them  a proper  choice. They  also say that Halifax didnt tell them that the policy only 
covered Mrs G. Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G have said. 
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs G and 
Halifax when the PPI was sold. Im also mindful  that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened  can fade over time.
So without anything  else to support  what Mr and Mrs G have told me, I havent been  able to 
safely conclude that Halifax didnt make them aware  that the PPI was optional. 
Ref: DRN19545752I understand that Mr G was self-employed when the policy was sold, so its unlikely  he 
wouldve been eligible for the cover. I think that explains why only Mrs G was covered by the 
policy.
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs G to take out the PPI and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
-Mrs G was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.  
-Mrs G was entitled to statutory sick pay if she couldnt work because of sickness  or 
accident. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to those benefits, and wouldve been 
useful to Mr and Mrs G if Mrs G couldnt work.    
-Mrs G wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits, such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely she and Mr G needed 
better advice or information about  the policys exclusions  and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs G before they agreed to buy 
it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have  to pay something for it. The policy 
was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs G 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mrs G wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy had a reasonable benefit.  So I think it unlikely  Mr and Mrs G would have made  a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1954575