K821x#15complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Zenith Insurance plc (Petwise) turned down a claim under her pet 
insurance policy. She wants the claim to be paid.   
background
Mrs L took her dog, W, to an out of hours vet on 24 August 2018 because of persistent 
vomiting and rapid breathing. She was concerned he was dehydrated. W was put on a drip 
and later diagnosed with pancreatitis. Mrs L didnt go to a festival because W was so unwell. 
The festival  ticket cost £179. 
Mrs L made a successful claim to Petwise to cover  the cost of Ws care and treatment. But 
Petwise turned down  her clam to cover the cost of her festival  ticket.  Petwise  said the 
treatment W received wasnt life-saving. 
Mrs L complained to Petwise.  She said W had been  suffering from severe  dehydration which 
she considered  to be a life-threatening condition. Petwise said the vet confirmed that to 
Mrs L the treatment may have been considered lifesaving. But Petwise  also noted the vet 
had questioned why Mrs L had waited  three  days before  taking him to the vet. Petwise didnt 
agree W had received  life-saving treatment and referred the claim to its underwriters who 
were satisfied the claim should be declined. 
Mrs L didnt accept Petwises response  and so she referred her complaint to our service.  
Mrs L said Ws treatment was life-saving as he couldnt be hydrated at home  and needed to 
be admitted. She also provided evidence which she said showed dehydration is a life-
threatening condition. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  and upheld it. He concluded that Mrs Ls claim 
was covered under the terms  of her policy. He was satisfied that whilst pancreatitis might  not 
be considered  a life-threatening  condition, dehydration can be fatal. Therefore our 
investigator was satisfied that the intravenous rehydration treatment W received  was life-
saving. And didnt think Petwise  had provided us with evidence to show  that exclusions 
under the policy  applied.  Our investigator said Petwise should  pay the claim.  
Mrs L accepted  our investigators findings.  
Petwise didnt accept our investigators findings  and so the case has been  referred  to me to 
decide. Petwise agreed dehydration can be life-threatening. But questioned why Mrs L 
waited three  days to take W to the vet if she felt his condition was so serious.  Petwise said if 
she hadnt waited  so long, Ws condition wouldnt have become life-threatening as he may 
not have become dehydrated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it. 
Ive looked carefully  at the wording of Mrs Ls policy. Under the heading What  is 
covered? it says the policy  will pay if:
You cancel your holiday within 7 days prior to departure  Because  your vet 
Ref: DRN17351242believes your pet needs  lifesaving treatment or surgery.
Under the heading What  is not covered ? it also states:
Any amount if your pet does not have lifesaving treatment and/or surgery.
The vets notes show that W was suffering from dehydration which Petwise  accepts can be 
life-threatening. The vet admitted W for more than a day to be rehydrated on a drip. 
Therefore, I think its reasonable to conclude the vet believed  W needed immediate life-
saving treatment. So I think Ws situation  did meet  the policy  condition for what is covered.
   
Where a policy states when  a claim wont be paid, its up to the insurer to prove  that 
these terms (exclusions) apply. 
Petwise said if Mrs L hadnt waited three days before taking W to the vet, then his 
condition might not have become so serious.  We put that to Mrs L. She said W had 
been unwell  for three days, but only started  persistent vomiting and rapid breathing 
shortly before she took him to the out of hours vet. Mrs L also said just because  W had 
been unwell  for three days, she didnt  think that changed the fact that he ended up 
needing life-saving  treatment because his health  deteriorated.   
Mrs Ls explanation  seems reasonable to me, and Im not persuaded by Petwises 
reasons as to why the exclusions apply.Theres nothing in the policy  that sets 
restrictions on when or how the pets condition becomes  life-threatening.  Only that life-
saving treatment was considered necessary. Im satisfied  such  treatment was 
necessary in Ws case, and as such, Mrs L was unable  to go to the festival.  So I think  
the claim should succeed.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
To put things right, Zenith Insurance  plc should:
 Pay Mrs L £179 for the cost of the festival ticket; and
 Add interest  at 8% simple from 5 February  2019 when the claim was 
investigated and turned down,  to the date it makes  the settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019
Anna Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1735124