K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B, who is represented by her husband,  Mr B, complains that Lex Autolease Ltd imposed 
unfair charges on the return of her lease car.
Background
In October  2018 Mrs Bs lease car was collected at the end of the hire period. The car was 
inspected by the agent collecting it on behalf  of Lex, but on a more  detailed inspection  
additional damage was noted.  Lex sent Mrs B an invoice for £590.  This was made up of two 
areas of damage  each  for £170  and a further  charge of £250 for an incomplete service  
history.
Mr B complained and Lex reviewed the inspectors report. It concluded that one of the areas  
of damage fell within fair wear and tear as set out in the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  
Association (BVRLA) guidelines and it reduced  the charge by £170, but it maintained  the 
other damaged area was chargeable.
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered  by one of our adjudicator 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He reviewed  the second  damage report and concluded 
the mark fell outside BVRLA guidelines for fair wear and tear. He also noted that Lex was 
entitled to carry  out a second inspection and it had done so due to the rainy condition  when  
the car had been collected.
Mr B didnt agree and said that the damage could have happened after collection and the car 
had been parked close to another by the agent. He didnt think  the mark would have been 
missed by the agent who had collected  the car. He said his wife had only signed  the 
collection report after she had been reassured that there  was no damage  for which  she 
could be charged.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the strength of feeling shown by Mr and Mrs B with this complaint. I have some  
sympathy with them  in that Mrs B assumed that the car had been returned  in an acceptable  
condition. However,  it is open  to Lex to carry out a more detailed  inspection in better 
conditions and it does  happen that dents can be identified which are not obvious in less 
clement conditions.
I have noted Mr Bs view that the damage could  have  happened after the car was collected. I 
agree that this is possible, but I think it more likely that it was present before collection  and 
only came  to light later. There is an element of subjectivity  to deciding if damage  falls outside 
the wear and tear guidelines of the BVRLA and it is possible for charges to be waived on 
occasions. This doesnt mean that all damage  charges are inaccurate. I can see why Mr B 
has said that if the inspector got it wrong once then he may have got it wrong twice. 
As the adjudicator has noted  the photographic evidence  identifies chargeable damage and I 
am satisfied  that on balance this was present at the time of collection. It follows that I am 
unable to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN16130432My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 
26 March 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1613043