K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains to Mercedes-Benz  Financial  Services  UK Limited (MBFS)  about the quality 
of a car it supplied him through a Hire Purchase  agreement.
background 
The circumstances surrounding  this complaint and my initial findings were  set out in my 
provisional decision of 13 September  2019. A copy of that provisional decision is attached 
here and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold this complaint. I invited  
further comments from both parties, before I would reconsider the complaint and issue my 
final decision.
Mr N responded to the provisional decision and accepted it. MBFS did not respond to the 
provisional decision by the deadline I set. And to date I have not seen any further 
submissions from it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I still consider my provisional findings  to be fair and reasonable  in the particular 
circumstances. Neither  party has added anything which gives me cause to change these. 
Therefore, my final decision is the same, for the reasons as set out in the attached 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services 
UK Limited  to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr N;
refund  his deposit minus £500  road fund contribution (£11,401);
refund  him 15% of each monthly rental payment;
pay a pro rata refund for any unused time in relation to the GAP, Minor Damage and 
Tyre and Alloy  insurances that Mr N is unable  to recover himself for cancelling the 
policies early  including refunding the cost of any early cancellation fee(s);
refund  him for any service plan costs he has paid over and above £840, if Mr N does 
not use his 2020  service;  and
remove the finance agreement from his credit  file.
Ref: DRN11698482MBFS should pay 8% yearly simple interest  on all refunds calculated  from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
If MBFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr N a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Mark Lancod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11698483provisional decision
complaint
Mr N complains to Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS)  about  the quality  of a car it 
supplied him through a Hire Purchase agreement. 
background
At the end of January 2017 Mr N financed a new car with a cash  price of just over £56,000.
Mr N contacted MBFS in May 2017 to complain about  handling problems with the car. He says these 
problems have  continued   and they appear to have worsened.
In summary he says:
the car is crabbing and juddering severely  when  manoeuvring (such as reversing and pulling 
out of junctions) at low speeds at (or near to) full lock 
he wasnt expecting it to crab so badly to the point where the car is moving sideways (and 
sometimes feels as though it skids)
the issue  seems worse  in wet and colder weather
the issue  causes excessive  noise
it feels unsafe for him and his family 
the tyres on the car are wearing out more  quickly  because of the issue
MBFS confirmed the manufacturer  is aware of the tyre skipping issue on certain  models of this car 
caused by the different  positioning of the front axle differential on right hand drive cars (compared to 
left hand drive  models). It said this was a comfort issue / characteristic which  is more pronounced 
during cold weather and when larger  wheels  and low profile tyres are fitted.  It offered Mr N a set of all 
season tyres at no additional cost to improve  his comfort.
Mr N says this didnt  fully fix things and he wants more  done to put things right.
Our investigator took a look at things  and thought a brand new car, especially one of this price, should 
run smoothly,  and the tyres that came  with it should be fit for purpose. The investigator didnt think  it 
fair for Mr N to pay for all season tyres going forward to alleviate the issue. The investigator thought it 
was reasonable for Mr N to reject the car and get a partial  refund (to reflect  his use so far).
MBFS doesnt agree.  In summary, it says expert testing confirms  the issue is not caused by a fault 
and the car is safe to drive. And using all season  tyres  will significantly improve the customer 
experience.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard  to the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what  I consider 
to have been  good industry practice at the relevant time.
The finance  agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints  relating to it. MBFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
Ref: DRN11698484The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is of particular  relevance  to this complaint. It says that under 
a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable  person 
would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of the goods, the price  and all the 
other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely  that in a case involving a car, the other relevant 
circumstances a court  would  take into account might include things like the age and mileage  at the 
time of sale and the vehicles history.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes  their general state and condition  and other things like 
their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety,  and durability  
can be aspects of the quality  of goods.
My starting point is MBFS supplied Mr N a brand  new car with a purchase price  of almost £60,000. 
With this in mind  I think  it is fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be 
not only higher than a cheaper more road worn vehicle,  but also to be of a high standard compared to 
similarly specified  but more  inexpensive new cars.
The issue Mr N has described with the handling of the car is something which  he reported in the first 
few months of using it, and MBFS  and the manufacturer acknowledge it is an inherent issue. So it is 
clear to me that it hasnt  been caused by Mr N or usually  expected  wear  and tear. 
The key question here is whether the issue renders  the car, as supplied, of unsatisfactory quality. 
MBFS have  pointed  to it being an acceptable characteristic rather than something which would give 
rise to a case for rejection under the CRA.
I have thought  about  whether or not the way Mr Ns car is handling is considered to be a normal and 
acceptable characteristic  of that model or type of car. I have had regard to the fact that cars will 
handle in a particular way that will not necessarily  be considered a defect. Depending on what type of 
car you choose (and to some extent how much you spend) there will be reasonably varying  degrees 
of mechanical noise,  vibration and smoothness.
However, while I accept that a skipping sensation and additional handling  noise might be more 
common in certain types of car (such as the model which  Mr N purchased).  I also recognise there will 
be situations where  the particular nature of the issues experienced by a consumer can go beyond the 
standard that a reasonable person would  consider satisfactory. This is relevant  to the legal  test in the 
CRA and one that I have had regard  to when  considering what is fair and reasonable here. 
My findings  are based on the particular  circumstances of this complaint and specifically the situation 
concerning Mr Ns car.
safety and other  relevant  considerations
There has been some  focus on whether Mr Ns car is safe or not. Expert evidence I have seen (and I 
note that not all of it relates specifically to Mr Ns car) broadly acknowledges a skipping issue but 
does not indicate that it affects safety. And overall there isnt anything  persuasive to show this 
handling issue  means Mr Ns car is unsafe. 
However, in considering whether a car is of satisfactory quality its safety is not the only relevant 
consideration. Ultimately,  there are other relevant  considerations to think  about. Despite  reassurances 
over safety   if certain issues  with the car are making the driver feel unsafe  or uncomfortable,  or 
having some  other  kind of negative impact on the vehicle  that is also important when considering the 
overall question of satisfactory quality.
what MBFS and the manufacturer said 
Ref: DRN11698485I have looked at the various submissions. It is quite clear that MBFS  and the manufacturer  
acknowledge there is a known  issue with certain cars of this kind exhibiting a skipping sensation. 
From what MBFS and the manufacturer have said it appears that some (rather than all) cars in this 
group have exhibited the front tyre skipping. Information submitted by the manufacturer indicates it is 
a small percentage  of overall users having problems of this nature.
So it seems  that what Mr N has described  is not necessarily the same as others with the same model 
- and he is likely part of a smaller percentage of users experiencing this. This strikes me as being at 
cross purposes to the issue  being categorised as a usual and acceptable characteristic of a 
particular model of car. Because  that would indicate  that all users of that model experience  it rather 
than some. 
I note that MBFS  offered Mr N free all season tyres as a solution. And I also note that the 
manufacturer made a statement acknowledging how this might not be a practical solution for some 
and it was investigating alternative  ways  to help minimise this characteristic.  I acknowledge that 
there might be an element  of goodwill here. However, had this issue been one that is normally 
expected I find it less likely that Mr N would  have been offered free tyres of a different kind and 
reassurance of ongoing  efforts to minimise it. 
I was also recently  made aware of a manufacturer fix for skipping concerns  involving adjustments  to 
the steering rack of cars in the same family  of models as those identified in some of the expert reports  
which MBFS submitted.  I am informed this isnt available to Mr N due to the specific model of car he 
has. However, I question why a fix has been put in place for something that appears to have 
previously been categorised  as a normal characteristic.
what Mr N has said
Mr N indicates that in his case the issues with the car as supplied were particularly pronounced. 
I note that Mr N complained about this issue early on and has been consistent throughout about how 
it has affected  day to day driving. He clearly doesnt think what he is experiencing is normal, and it is 
causing him concern to a degree that he feels worried about using  the car in certain conditions. While 
his submissions are not scientific or expert tests   they are something I have had regard to when 
grappling with the question of whether  the car as supplied was of satisfactory quality based on the 
standard a reasonable person would expect.
In Mr Ns early  submissions he states  that the issue is quite  bad and pronounced and that he wasnt 
expecting it to crab so badly going around bends and pulling out of junctions. My impression  is this 
has been problematic not necessarily due to the existence of some crabbing  or skipping but due to 
the perceived  severity in the individual circumstances. It is also worth noting that Mr N has said this is 
his third car of the brand  which indicates he isnt inexperienced when  it comes to driving cars of this 
price and performance.
Mr N has also said fitting new all season tyres did not eliminate the problem  completely.  However, I 
think that alternative tyres are more relevant to a proposed resolution, rather than the key question  of 
whether the car was of satisfactory quality  at the time of supply.
the expert report on Mr Ns car
Several of the reports  submitted  by MBFS are not about  Mr Ns car or clearly about the exact same 
specification model he has. They appear to be carried out on models with different size wheels.  And 
while I have had regard  to these reports to an extent (as they appear to cover the same family of 
models) I think it can be more useful to consider a report on the individual car Mr N has.
Ref: DRN11698486The expert  report on his car (Report A) acknowledges a slight vibration in handling  but says this is 
normal for the type of car. It doesnt really support a wider  problem  with the car. However, the report 
isnt very detailed  - in particular  as to the nature of the testing. Mr N has made it clear that when  
reversing out of his drive  and pulling  out of junctions he experiences the issue, particularly  in wet and 
cold conditions (he said it isnt as noticeable in better weather). It isnt clear how much of this 
particular driving the engineer carried out or in what conditions and he also only completed a relatively 
short 8 mile road test. 
Mr N disputes the contents of the report strongly and says that the conditions were  mild and that the 
engineer did not include all the details discussed (including excessive  tyre wear) in his report.
The report isnt clear  about  what tyres were on Mr Ns car. But I note that Mr N said the car had all 
weather tyres  on at the time - which are broadly accepted as significantly reducing the issue.
Overall, I find this report less persuasive in showing Mr Ns car was likely of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied, especially  in light of Mr Ns credible  testimony and the other evidence  available. 
excessive tyre wear
In support of his case Mr N has said this issue has caused his tyres to wear excessively.  A report  from 
a tyre specialist retailer has said the tyres are wearing excessively and abnormally and that Mr N 
needs new front tyres  every 5-6000 miles. The report goes on to say that clearly something is not 
right with the car. The tyre edges wear out as though they have been driven around a high speed 
track.
Mr N has also submitted  evidence to show his tyres have been replaced several times. From what he 
has sent it appears that he had three  sets of replacement front tyres in the first 20,000 or so miles 
(four sets on the car in total including  the original factory set). He has also sent in photos  to show 
what appears to be heavy  wear on the tyre edges. This level of tyre wear  seems unusual and 
supports what  the specialist has said. It also seems  that a service manager  at the dealer  has said that 
replacing tyres at 6,000  miles would be unusual unless there was a steering / geometry issue with 
the car.
Mr N has also said the car is used for domestic purposes, mainly for local trips by his wife to take their 
daughter to and from school.  So it seems  unlikely  the car is being driven in such a manner  that would 
explain what  appears to be excessive tyre wear.
The manufacturer has said the skipping effect does  not cause damage or excessive tyre wear. But I 
dont think this in itself is enough to persuade me that in the individual circumstances  of Mr Ns case it 
isnt causing these adverse  effects. And I note that Report  A does not fully address the issue of tyre 
wear.
In the circumstances the more  likely explanation  for what appears to be unusual and accelerated tyre 
wear, is a wider  problem with the steering  system of the car.
noise
I also turn to the issue of noise. Mr N has said that the handling issue is quite loud and you can hear 
what sounds  like thudding  as the car is being  manoeuvred  in his driveway. He has sent in a video to 
show this. While the audio  quality of the video is not the best I can hear what appear unusual  and 
irregular thudding  noises as he turns the wheel  at low speed on his drive. I can see why this noise 
might be alarming  when carrying  out parking manoeuvres. 
I have noted that the expert reports submitted by MBFS are not inspections of Mr Ns car, and dont 
appear to test the exact same model either. However, they do comment  on what appears to be a 
similar issue  with this family of cars. The description of the noises in these  reports is as follows:
Ref: DRN11698487Report B - odd (car fitted with all-weather tyres and on full lock)
Report C - grating  or graunching (car fitted  with standard tyres  and on full lock)
I also note that the manufacturer  describes  the issue of skipping with this family of models as being  
noticeable to the customer through a clunk noise.
It seems this evidence supports what Mr N says about the handling  issue with his car being linked to 
undesirable noise. While cars create noise of all kinds I think it is fair to say that loud thudding , 
grating, graunching and clunking  are not what the average  person would associate with a new car 
costing almost £60,000.
There is also the question of what is causing these noises. It isnt clear  but I have reservations  over 
parts not performing as they should  causing  possible  detrimental long term effects  on the car.
description 
One of the things that has been  identified  by MBFS and broadly highlighted across the expert reports  
is that the issues Mr N has come across appear to be generally evident during low speed handling 
and when the car is placed  on full lock. There also appears to be a suggestion  that a performance car 
such as this is more prone to the type of issues Mr N is experiencing. And that it would  be reasonably  
expected.
However, I think the average domestic buyer is going to commonly come across low speed driving 
and situations (such as coming in and out of a driveway  or parking spot)  when full lock is required.
MBFS has indicated there was a disclaimer  given  to consumers to make them aware of this handling 
issue but it says Mr N didnt sign one. Mr N says he didnt  get shown this and it was given to 
customers who got the car after he did. From the evidence I have I cant see where Mr N was made 
aware that he might  reasonably expect  the type of issues he has experienced during usual domestic  
driving conditions due to the nature of the car he had chosen. In fact I have considered the general 
description attributed to this model  by the manufacturer and despite a mention of sportiness  there is a 
particular emphasis  on its suitability for everyday use and superior comfort in that use. 
So I dont think the handling issue being evident during low speed / full lock is particularly mitigating 
here. Nor do I think from the description and marketing  of the car that Mr N would necessarily  have 
reasonably expected what  he appears to be experiencing. 
satisfactory quality
This case is not clear cut. While there is a recognised issue there is clearly a dispute about how bad 
the handling problems are in Mr Ns particular case. Mr N has been quite credible  and persuasive 
about how bad these are while Report A doesnt  really  go into enough  detail to satisfy me that Mr N is 
not accurately describing his experience  during particular  driving conditions.
I note that the evidence provided does not persuasively  indicate this is a safety issue, however some 
of the reports do indicate there are some particular  noises associated with it. My overall impression  is 
that these  noises do not appear to be in line with what a reasonable person  might expect  from a car of 
this price and description.
Mr Ns evidence supports  there  being  an unexpected noise  issue with his particular car. And he has 
also shown persuasive evidence  of an impact on his tyres which  have not been fully explained by the 
expert who examined his car. While comments from experts have  indicated this is unusual and 
indicative of a wider problem (possibly  with the steering geometry).
Ref: DRN11698488I also note that Mr N reported the issue early on  and in this particular case  I dont think that MBFS  
has done enough to show that he hasnt got an inherent issue  with his car that goes beyond  what a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory taking  account of all the relevant  circumstances 
including price and description.
This is not a straightforward  case. But my decision  is on the balance  of probabilities. On balance,  for 
the reasons I have given above I think that Mr Ns car was not of satisfactory  quality when it was 
supplied to him. And therefore,  on a fair and reasonable basis I think he is entitled  to a remedy.
proposed solution and a fair way forward
It is clear that all season  tyres have been proposed  as a solution to the issue.  I am not persuaded it 
does completely eliminate  the problem   but it seems to improve it.
Mr N has indicated that even  after he had these  tyres fitted they still wore  our prematurely. In any 
event, I also question whether it is practical  for him to continue to buy all season tyres  on an ongoing 
basis, especially when  the car was sold and marketed with different tyres.  And from my research it 
appears that all season tyres are generally  more expensive - which  will mean an additional  ongoing 
cost.
In my mind, the attempt to remedy this by offering all season tyres essentially is the attempt at repair.  
But in the circumstances I dont think it is an effective long term remedy.  Therefore, I have had regard 
to the other remedies in the CRA and what would be fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of Mr Ns complaint. 
All things considered, I dont think  the solution proposed is one that Mr N should  have to accept if he 
doesnt want  to. So I think Mr N should  now be allowed  his final right to reject the car. This would 
mean the car is collected from him, the finance agreement is cancelled and Mr N has his deposit 
refunded (plus interest). 
Mr Ns deposit contribution as reflected on the finance  agreement is £11,901 but in addition to 
including contributions toward the cost of the car in the form of cash  payments and a part exchange  
this also included  payment  of £500 for the first year road fund licence. Mr N has already used this 
road fund licence so I think it fair to take this off any refund of his deposit.
Mr N says he paid upfront for three insurances  (GAP  for £625, Tyre and Alloy for £850 and Minor 
Damage for £499). These all run until 19/2/2020. Mr N has benefited from the coverage these  have 
given him up until now. However, if Mr N accepts my decision and hands back  the car before expiry of 
the insurances I think it fair MBFS pay him a pro rata refund to reflect  any unused time on these  
policies. It might be possible for Mr N to claim  back a rebate himself  for cancelling  the policies  early 
but that isnt clear at this stage. I think it fair that Mr N try to do this first and then if he does receive 
any money back MBFS will cover the amount he is unable to recover (and any early cancellation  
fees). If MBFS want proof of what Mr N got back (and what he didnt)  they can ask Mr N who I expect  
can get something from the insurer(s)  to show this.
It is unclear if Mr N has made any claims on these  insurances. But in any event  it doesnt appear 
likely that any claims would  lead to double  recovery should Mr N accept  my decision (for example in 
relation to the cost of replacement tyres). However,  I invite both parties  to add any clarity on this 
matter in response to my provisional findings. 
Mr N also says he is paying  for a £1,260 service contract on a monthly basis. He has provided an 
invoice to support this. Mr N says it covers his annual service costs around February  each year.  It 
appears Mr N has already  had the annual  service due in 2018 and 2019 and is due a 2020 service 
before the contract ends. So if Mr N accepts this decision and hands back the car without using his 
2020 service  then MBFS should fairly  refund him anything he has paid to the plan over and above 
£840 (which represents 2/3 of the cost of the plan). 
Ref: DRN11698489From the evidence  Ive seen  Mr N has been getting regular use from the car (he says he wouldnt  
have used it if he couldve  but it is his only car)  so I think it is fair for MBFS to retain the majority  of 
his £577.57 monthly rentals. However, Mr Ns driving  experience has been impaired somewhat  by the 
issues he has experienced.  Mr N has not had a loss of major features on the car but he is still paying 
a lot each  month  for a driving  experience  that I am not convinced is to the standard he would  normally 
expect. So I think he should  get a relatively  small  amount of each monthly  rental back to reflect  this.
Mr N has also spent  a considerable amount on tyres since  owning the car - while some of this might  
have been spent in any event on balance it seems  he has likely spent a lot more on tyres  than he 
wouldve in that same  time period were it not for the handling issues. 
Mr N says he has spent £3,731.50 on tyres and provided  receipts to support  that. However, from what  
I can see he has double counted  deposits of £705  and £385. Therefore, I think he has spent  
£2,641.50 - which is still a considerable amount nevertheless.
This is not a science but all things considered  I think it would be fair for MBFS to refund 15% of his 
monthly payments as compensation. 15% is around £85 a month and aims to compensate him for the 
impairment to his driving experience caused  by the car not being of satisfactory quality.  And also 
compensate him for the additional expense he has had on tyres since owning the car.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr N;
refund his deposit  minus £500 road fund contribution (£11,401);
refund him 15% of each  monthly rental payment;
pay a pro rata refund  for any unused time in relation  to the GAP, Minor Damage and Tyre and 
Alloy insurances that Mr N is unable  to recover himself for cancelling the policies early  
including refunding the cost of any early  cancellation  fee(s);
refund him for any service plan costs he has paid over and above £840,  if Mr N does not use 
his 2020 service;  and
remove the finance  agreement from his credit  file.
MBFS should  pay 8% yearly  simple  interest on all refunds calculated from the date of payment  to the 
date of settlement.  
If MBFS considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax from the 
interest part of my award, it should tell Mr N how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr N a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Mark Lancod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1169848