K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the service he received from Metro Bank PLC when opening a bank 
account.
background
Mr P contacted Metro  on 17 April 2019 to ask if it would be possible to get a debit card 
before he went on holiday  in two days time. He was told a current account could be set up in 
branch, and that once this was done  hed receive a debit card straight  away.  
The following  day he called again to check some details and then went into a branch. But 
when he got there he spent a considerable amount of time waiting to be seen and then 
going through the application  process, before being  told that his application needed to be 
referred to Metros Head  Office. As a result Mr P was unable to get his debit card prior to his 
holiday.
Mr P complained to Metro. He asked it to compensate  him for the time he spent in branch 
and travelling to and from it. But Metro said it had listened to the calls Mr P made  to it before 
going to the branch and it couldnt hear hed been  advised of a specific  timescale for opening 
an account. It also explained that its staff cant pre-advise  as to when an account referral 
might be required. And it said it operated a queue  system in branch, and it had offered to 
send Mr P a text message to notify  him when  an advisor was ready to see him.
Mr P wasnt  happy with this response  so he brought his complaint to our service. He says he 
was told he could get a debit card within 15 minutes.  And that if hed known this might not be 
the case he wouldnt have  tried to open  an account  at that time. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He couldnt hear 
that Mr P had been advised of a 15 minute timescale when he spoke to Metro.  And he felt 
that Metro had followed its processes correctly here, and explained that our service isnt able 
to ask a business to change its internal processes.  
Mr P disagrees with this view. So the case has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr P will be very disappointed, but 
Im not going  to ask Metro to pay him any compensation. Ill explain  why.
I appreciate this was a very frustrating experience for Mr P. Hes explained hed been told of 
the benefits of having  a Metro debit card when travelling abroad. And its clear  he got the 
impression from the two phone calls he made  to Metro  on the 17 and 18 April 2019 that hed 
be able to open an account and get a debit  card before he went on his holiday. 
Ive listened to the calls and thought carefully about  what the advisors  told Mr P. On the first 
call the advisor asked some questions  and established that Mr P didnt yet have a bank 
account with Metro. They advised him that opening  an account was a straightforward 
process and someone  would sit down and do it with him in branch. They also told him what  
documents he would  need to provide. And that once the account was open  hed be able to 
get a debit card straight away. 
Ref: DRN16737372On the second  call Mr P told the advisor  that he wanted to go into branch later to get a debit 
card for a current account.  He said hed previously been told that he could get a debit card in 
15 minutes and asked how hed be able to set up a PIN number.  The advisor told him hed 
be able to do this at the same time as receiving the card. Mr P then asked if hed be able to 
use it the next day. And the advisor replied  that he should be able to.
I appreciate Mr P wasnt specifically told on either of these calls that there  was a possibility 
he might  not be able to open an account  and get a debit card before he went  on holiday. He 
says if he had been he wouldnt have spent time trying to open an account that day. And he 
feels he was therefore subject to an unnecessary credit check. 
But I also dont think either of the advisors gave any guarantees to Mr P here. Rather they 
were explaining the general process to him and what he would need to do to open an 
account and set up a debit card. I also cant hear that either of the advisors specified any 
timescales, other than to say that once an account  had been  opened  it would be possible to 
get a debit card straight away. 
I appreciate the advisor on the second  call didnt dispute Mr Ps statement about the process  
taking 15 minutes. But I think its possible he wasnt aware that Mr P didnt already have a 
Metro bank account. Mr P had only mentioned  the fact he needed to get a debit card for an 
account when  he explained why he was calling. He hadnt clarified that he also needed to 
open an account. 
Metro has explained  that there is no way its advisors  could know  in advance  when a request 
to open an account might need to be referred  to its Head Office. This isnt known until after it 
starts the account  opening process  and carries out a credit check. If a referral  hadnt been 
necessary I understand the account could have been opened for Mr P whilst he was in 
branch. But Metro has told us why it needed  to refer Mr Ps application. And Im satisfied it 
followed its processes  correctly when it did this. 
I understand it was disappointing for Mr P that he wasnt able to open an account  and get a 
debit card that day. But for the reasons Ive outlined above I dont think  it would be fair for 
me to ask Metro to pay him compensation for this.
In addition to the application process  taking longer than hed anticipated Mr P had to wait for 
some time to be seen  in branch.  But given  the nature of a branch it is always going  to be 
possible that a customer will need  to wait for assistance. And I havent seen any evidence  
that makes me think Metro treated Mr P unfairly  in this respect. So I dont think  I can 
reasonably ask Metro  to compensate Mr P for this either.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.  
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1673737