K820x#14Complaint
C is a members club. It has complained  that HSBC Bank Plc didnt refund unauthorised 
transactions under its direct debit  guarantee policy.
Mr J, an officer-holder,  represents the club.
Background
Mr J discovered  that DVLA had set up a direct debit mandate on the clubs account, without 
authorisation. He asked  HSBC to cancel the mandate and refund the payments, which  DVLA 
had taken. He also asked for an explanation  of how this had happened,  as he was worried  
the account had been exposed to fraudulent activity.
HSBC cancelled the direct debit mandate.  It also explained that it had been set up via 
AUDDIS. This is a scheme,  which allows a merchant to send direct  debit  instructions to the 
customer's bank electronically, instead of in paper format. It said the mandate  for the direct 
debit is kept by the merchant. Beyond this, it had no more information it could provide and 
advised Mr J to contact  DVLA directly. 
Mr J was dissatisfied with this response and so he brought  his complaint to this service.
He said HSBC didnt  comply with its direct  debit guarantee to refund any disputed payments. 
He said it was left to him to pursue a refund directly with DVLA. He also complained that 
HSBC failed to answer  his specific questions about the direct debit mandate  and, instead, 
referred him to Action Fraud.  
The investigator looked into Cs complaint and decided not to uphold it. She said that 
HSBCs notes showed that it had sent DVLA a request for a refund and had cancelled the 
direct debit mandate. She also said there was no evidence that HSBC  had shared Cs 
details with a third party and there was nothing it could have done to prevent the direct debit 
from being set up.
Given these circumstances, she thought the complaint had been resolved fairly  and reasonably.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion. Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
He maintains it was DVLA who had cancelled  the direct debit and refunded the payments, 
after he had contacted it directly. And he said HSBC may have processed the cancellation 
and refunds, but they did not initiate them. He relied on its final response letter, which stated  
it would  consider a request for a refund.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  Mr J felt it necessary to complain to this service. However, his original complaint 
has been resolved.  The direct  debit mandate was cancelled when he raised his complaint 
and the two payments were refunded. The club is not out of pocket and, from what Ive seen,  
there has been no financial or other  loss or detriment to the club.  
Ref: DRN18632982Nonetheless, I have  considered whether HSBC  responded  fairly and reasonably  to Mr Js 
complaint. 
HSBC told us that the direct debit mandate was created on 5 April 2018. Two payments, 
totalling £43.80 were  made from the account on 17 April and 1 May.
Ive seen screenshots from its computer records, which show that Mr J raised a complaint on 
11 May 2018, after the two payments had been taken. HSBC said he asked for the direct 
debit mandate  to be cancelled. It cancelled the mandate  and raised a request for a refund on 
the same  day.  
On 14 May 2018, it credited his account with £43.80. It confirmed it was the bank, and not 
DVLA, who paid this refund.
I understand Mr J said he first contacted HSBC on 18 April and thats when he was told to 
contact DVLA. HSBC searched its records for this call but couldnt find it or any other  call 
from him between 18 April and 1 May. Ive seen a screenshot of its search confirming this. 
I can only conclude that there was one call on 11 May.
I appreciate Mr J was worried about  fraudulent activity on the clubs  account. However, 
I consider that HSBC  provided him with all the information, which was available  to it. Its not 
obliged to tell him how fraudulent activity occurred  or report it to Action  Fraud, if at all there  
was fraud.  Its equally possible this was an administrative  error  by DVLA. But, even if this 
were a fraud  using  DVLA, the details  would be held by the DVLA. Also,  there was no reason 
for the mandate  to trigger any alarms at HSBC,  given  the instruction came  from a 
government agency.
Based on this evidence,  Im satisfied HSBC cancelled the direct debit mandate  and refunded 
the payments  when  Mr J asked it to do so. And I consider it dealt with his complaint fairly 
and reasonably. I wont be asking HSBC to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1863298