K821x#15complaint
Mr E has membership  of a group, private  medical  insurance policy. He complains  that BUPA 
Insurance Limited refused  to reimburse  payments for medical  treatment in the USA for his 
daughter, M.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 
25 November 2019,  an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, 
I wont repeat that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I didnt  think that BUPA had acted unfairly in 
refusing to exercise its discretion  in Ms favour in this case.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr E said:
It wasnt reasonable for BUPA to decide that there was insufficient evidence in 
relation to the clinical effectiveness and outcomes for VBT as, on the same  evidence, 
Ms specialist,  spinal  surgeons decided to recommend VBT for M.
Its not in dispute that BUPA and NICE both regard VBT as experimental but theres 
an exception in the terms of their cover and Ms case falls within  that exception. 
In August 2019, the U.S Food  & Drug Administration approved VBT for use in 
idiopathic scoliosis, which confirms the substantial body of evidence  for the clinical 
effectiveness for VBT.
This service dealt with a similar case in which an ombudsman directed BUPA to 
contribute towards the cost of medical  treatment  in the USA.
In addition to VBT,  a major part of Ms surgery was fusion of her thoracic spine. 
Thats  the treatment  she would  have had in the UK. So, BUPA should cover the cost 
of the part of her surgery relating to spinal  fusion or at least pay the equivalent cost of 
that surgery in the UK. Refusal to do so isnt fair or reasonable. 
In response to Mr Es comments  and my further  questions, BUPA said:
Its medical director looked at the FDA article but it doesnt change BUPAs  view as 
the FDA approval was eight months after Ms surgery. At the time of Ms surgery,  
VBT was experimental in the USA. In addition,  the FDA approval was based on 
limited evidence. 
Its difficult to say what  the cost of Ms thoracic  fusion  would have  been  in the UK, as 
there are many different variables but, in any event, its not fair for it to pay it. 
Ref: DRN15304052It has an exclusion for experimental treatment as it wants to be confident that any 
treatment it pays for has been  demonstrated to be safe and effective.  Thoracic  spine 
fusion is safe and effective but it doesnt  know what the long-term effect VBT will 
have on Ms eventual  prognosis. 
Its terms provide that it doesnt cover treatment  outside  the UK unless the treatment 
isnt available  in the UK and would have otherwise been eligible treatment. Ms 
surgery was ineligible  because  part of it was experimental.  The spinal fusion surgery 
is available in the UK, so wouldnt come within the exception for treatment outside 
the UK. It would  have  paid for spinal  fusion in the UK but not in the USA if the reason 
for the surgery was to facilitate VBT, which  is ineligible. 
In the other decision to which Mr E has referred,  the key difference  is that there was 
no viable  treatment  or other option  in the UK for that complainant  and the USA 
treatment was otherwise  eligible  under the terms of the policy.  Thats  not the case 
here. 
Mr E responded. He said:
The FDA approval of VBT demonstrates that VBT was well established in the USA 
when M had surgery there.  
The UK surgeons he consulted were  sufficiently satisfied to prescribe VBT for M and 
her surgeon had no doubt this would be the best treatment for M.
BUPAs conclusion about VBT flies in the face of an overwhelming  body of evidence 
and expert opinion.
A patients clinician should prescribe treatment,  not BUPA:  BUPA shouldnt decide  
whether a treatment  is safe and effective  or whether it meets  its approval. BUPAs  
role should be to assess whether the treating clinicians are adequately qualified and 
whether they acted  in the best interests of the patient in choosing a particular type of 
treatment. If those  conditions are met, BUPA should simply cover  the cost of the 
claim. 
Exclusion 16 in the membership guide is relevant here, which  provides that BUPA 
may pay for experimental  treatment of an acute condition.
He disputes  that VBT is experimental. BUPA may have regarded part of Ms surgery  
as experimental but it should have  been covered. 
The spinal fusion  part of Ms surgery in the USA isnt experimental  and should have 
been covered  by BUPA. As BUPA says that it would have paid for spinal fusion in the 
UK, it should at least cover the cost of that in the UK and he can get an estimate.
He chose to act on the advice of the worlds leading spinal surgeons to provide  M 
with the best available treatment. Treatment available in the UK would  have caused  
M problems later. 
BUPAs reference to exclusion 21 is inaccurate: exclusion 16 is the relevant one. 
Ref: DRN15304053Ms case has important similarities  with the other case  to which  hes referred.  
Ms treatment was successful, which is evidence enough that it was safe and 
effective.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E is right to say that BUPAs reference to exclusion  21 relating to overseas treatment in 
its recent response is different from his membership  guide. I set out the relevant exclusions 
in this case in my provisional  decision. Exclusion 21 relates to overseas treatment and has 
no exception attached to it. Exclusion 16 relates to experimental treatment and its exception 
says that BUPA may pay for experimental treatment of an acute condition, before treatment 
and after reviewing full clinical details. 
At the time BUPA made  its decision in this case, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to 
conclude that VBT was experimental or unproved under the terms of the membership guide. 
Subsequent approval by the FDA doesnt alter that. 
Mr E says that BUPAs  role should be to assess whether the treating clinicians are 
adequately qualified and whether they acted  in the best interests of the patient in choosing  a 
particular type of treatment and if those  conditions are met, cover the cost of the claim. 
Thats not what Mr Es membership provides for. 
Ms surgeons are making a different decision than BUPA. Ms surgeons recommended  what  
they thought best for her. That included a treatment which was experimental or unproved  
based on UK medical practice, which is excluded under  the cover M has. Theres an 
exception that BUPA may pay for experimental or unproved treatment for an acute condition,  
before treatment and after its received full clinical details. Ms condition  was acute but when 
BUPA reviewed the clinical  details, it decided not to exercise its discretion in Ms favour. I 
think that BUPA was entitled to do that and didnt act unfairly in coming to that view. 
Each case we determine is decided on its own facts.  I note the case to which Mr E has 
referred but I think there are important differences here. For example, there was a viable  
treatment option  for M in the UK  spinal  fusion. I quite understand that spinal fusion on its 
own wasnt a treatment  Mr E wanted  to pursue  for M, but it was available. Also, VBT wasnt 
otherwise eligible under the terms of the policy. As VBT was only available overseas, it was 
excluded from the policy. 
Ms membership covered  thoracic fusion in the UK. I dont think it would be reasonable to 
ask BUPA  to pay the USA costs of the part of Ms surgery  relating to thoracic fusion. The 
medical system in the USA and its cost are radically  different from the UKs  system and 
costs.  
Ref: DRN15304054Ive thought carefully about whether BUPA should pay what  it would have paid if M had 
undergone spinal fusion in the UK but I dont think that would be a fair outcome. Thats 
because M didnt have the treatment that was covered under the policy   that is, spinal 
fusion in the UK. I think its relevant  that the spinal fusion was only part of the surgery M had. 
I also note that its possible that the ineligible treatment may have an effect  on the spinal 
fusion. That simply isnt known at this stage. In the circumstances, I dont think  it would be 
fair to ask BUPA to pay what it would have paid if M had spinal fusion in the UK, as that was 
an available option for M, which  Mr E didnt take up. I think that BUPA is entitled to consider 
the surgery as a whole. 
I do not doubt that both Mr E and Ms surgeons pursued treatment for M in her best 
interests. Im very pleased to note that M is doing so well post surgery.  But the treatment M 
had in the USA wasnt  covered by her membership.  For the reasons  Ive set out above and 
in my provisional decision,  I dont think BUPA acted unfairly in refusing to exercise its 
discretion in Ms favour in this case.  
Ive considered everything thats been said but I see no reason  to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I set out above and in my provisional decision,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15304055extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr E has membership of a group, private medical  insurance policy.  He complains that
BUPA Insurance Limited refused his claim for treatment in the USA for his daughter,  M.
background
Mr E asked  BUPA to cover treatment in the USA for Ms double, major scoliosis.  M also has 
spondylolysis. The treatment included vertebral  body tethering  (VBT)  which  allows correction 
of a curve  without fusion,  so preserves some  of the mobility in the lumber  spine. Thats 
important in a patient who has spondylolysis. Ms UK consultant orthopaedic and spinal 
surgeon supported  VBT for M but said that it isnt approved by the National Institute for 
Health and Care  Excellence  (NICE)  nor undertaken by any surgeon  in the UK.
BUPA said that the policy doesnt cover treatment  overseas but asked for additional clinical  
information so that it could consider the possibility of covering some of the cost. One of 
BUPAs medical directors reviewed the additional information and BUPA declined the 
claim. It said that there  was a lack of evidence-based information regarding  the clinical 
effectiveness and outcomes of the treatment. BUPA said it would neither fund the 
treatment nor offer a contribution towards it. It said that it would review any further clinical 
evidence that showed the clinical  effectiveness  and outcomes of the treatment.
M had the operation in the USA in December 2018. I understand that her thoracic curve 
was corrected by fusion and her lumber  curve  reduced by VBT. The operating surgeon  
reports that the procedure  has effectively cured  M of her scoliosis.
Mr E says that there  is overwhelming medical evidence that VBT is the best treatment for 
M, which is a good enough endorsement  of its clinical effectiveness.  He says that VBT not 
only treats  Ms scoliosis but also preserves motion  in her lumber  spine.  Mr E says that its 
not disputed that VBT preserves motion and BUPA  either failed to consider that or didnt 
give it appropriate consideration.  He says that BUPA isnt better placed than the experts 
who looked after M to judge whether  the evidence base is good  enough  to support this 
treatment option.  Mr E says that BUPA was wrong  to deny the claim.  He wants BUPA  to 
meet the costs,  which are more than $266,000.
One of our investigators looked  at what had happened. She said that BUPA hadnt acted 
unfairly. Mr E didnt  agree. He provided  further information about  the outcome  of the 
treatment in the USA,  which was effective for treating Ms scoliosis  and preserved motion 
in her lumber spine.  BUPA maintained  its refusal of the claim.
The investigator looked at the matter again. She said that whilst BUPA  acted fairly in 
refusing the claim  under the terms of the policy, it gave Mr E the impression that it would 
be willing  to act outside the terms of the policy if he provided enough evidence to show the 
effectiveness of the procedure. The investigator  said that BUPA  gave Mr E false hope and 
that it should  pay him compensation  of £700  for that.
Ref: DRN15304056Neither BUPA nor Mr E agreed with the investigator. BUPA  said that it didnt set false  
expectations. It said that there was a difference between a successful outcome for M and 
proof of clinical effectiveness. Mr E said that hed provided sufficient evidence to show 
that Ms treatment should be treated  as an exception  under the policy and that BUPA is 
acting unfairly in maintaining its refusal.  He said that he wasnt  asking  for anything outside 
the policy terms or for a gesture of goodwill.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role isnt to substitute the medical  judgement of any of the medical  professionals 
involved in the case with my own. I weigh  up all the medical evidence Ive been provided 
with to decide whether I think BUPA handled Mr Es claim  fairly and reasonably.
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that BUPA has a responsibility  to 
handle claims promptly and fairly and that it shouldnt  reject a claim unreasonably.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy.  The membership guide 
says: Exclusion 16 Experimental  drugs and treatment
We do not pay for treatment  or procedures which, in our reasonable opinion are 
experimental or unproved  based on established medical practice in the United 
Kingdom , such as [] procedures which have not been satisfactorily reviewed by NICE 
(National Institute for Health and Care Excellence)
Exception: We may pay for this type of treatment of an acute  condition. However,  you 
will need  our written  agreement before  the treatment is received and we need  full clinical 
details from your consultant before we can give our decision.
Exclusion 21 Overseas treatment or repatriation
We do not pay for treatment  that you receive  outside the United Kingdom []
has the claim been declined unfairly?
Its not in dispute that VBT was recommended for M by the doctors in the USA and
supported by Ms UK consultant orthopaedic and spinal surgeon.  Its clearly been  effective  
in treating Ms scoliosis. The issue for me to decide is whether BUPA  treated  Mr E unfairly  
in refusing to exercise its discretion in his favour  in this case.
Ref: DRN15304057I dont intend to uphold Mr Es complaint because I dont think that BUPA  has treated 
him unfairly.  I say that because:
Whilst theres a blanket  exclusion relating to overseas treatment, BUPA  offered to 
consider evidence about the clinical effectiveness  of VBT. I think thats a fair 
approach when theres a dispute about whether a treatment  is experimental  or 
unproved. I dont  think  that gave Mr E false expectations. I think  BUPA made  it clear  
that its position was that the treatment wasnt covered under the policy and that it 
hadnt given pre-authorisation  but would consider further information.
The policy covers treatment thats  not experimental or unproved, based on 
established medical practice in the UK. In assessing  that, its reasonable in this 
case for BUPA to look to guidance from NICE  and it mentions that in the exclusion 
relating to experimental  treatment.
VBT isnt approved  by NICE  as treatment for scoliosis, so it doesnt 
seem unreasonable for BUPA  to conclude that it is experimental  or 
unproved.
I think BUPA reached a reasonable decision that, based  on the information it 
had, theres insufficient evidence regarding  the clinical effectiveness and 
outcomes for VBT.
Whilst information from Ms treating surgeon  in the USA explains the rationale for 
Ms treatment,  it doesnt show that VBT is established as clinically effective. The 
treating surgeon  said that his institution had used  VBT for more than seven years 
with generally beneficial outcomes. The published paper provided by the treating 
surgeon related  to a small group of patients.  I dont  think its unreasonable for BUPA 
to conclude that the information isnt sufficiently  extensive to show that VBT is 
clinically effective.
BUPA came  to its decision after referring the matter to one of its medical  
directors, which wed expect it to do in cases like this.
It isnt sufficient  to show  that the treatment has been effective in Ms case: 
that doesnt establish clinical  effectiveness in the broad sense.
BUPA acted within the policy terms and conditions  and didnt act unfairly in 
refusing to exercise its discretion in Mr Es favour in this case as it came to the 
reasonable opinion that VBT is experimental or unproved.
my provisional decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr E but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont propose  to uphold his 
complaint.
Ref: DRN1530405