K820x#14Complaint
Mr I complains that Shawbrook Bank  Limited (Shawbrook) declined  a claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA)  after he took out a fixed sum loan with it 
to pay for dental treatment for a third party  Ms W. 
Background
In May 2017, Mr I paid £2,050 for dental  treatment for Ms W using a fixed sum loan with 
Shawbrook. Mr I says the supplying company, which Ill call S was due to carry out the 
treatment but went  out of business before any treatment was started. 
Shawbrook turned down Mr Is claim under section 75 CCA  because it didnt think  the 
necessary relationship between the debtor, creditor and supplier was present and therefore 
it said the requirements for making  a claim had not been met. 
Our investigator didnt  think Shawbrook  acted unfairly in turning down Mr Is complaint. He 
said it was most likely the contract  for the treatment was between Ms W and S. And because  
Mr I didnt have a contract with S, he didnt think the relationship requirements  necessary  for 
a section 75 claim had been met. 
Mr I didnt agree. He said its unfair that that he should have to continue paying for a service 
that was never provided. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  for 
further review. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must decide here what, if anything, Shawbrook should do to resolve Mr Is complaint. To do 
this, I have to decide what  I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other 
things) any relevant  law. In this case, relevant law includes  section 75 of the CCA. 
Section 75 of the CCA provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against  the credit provider if there  is a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
But there are certain criteria that also need to be satisfied, which  includes establishing a 
direct relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier.
This means  the person  who paid for the goods  (Mr I), should have a contractual  relationship  
with the company who supplied the goods (S), as well as with the credit provider 
(Shawbrook). 
Shawbrook says that the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier relationship  doesnt  exist in this 
case, because  the credit agreement was between Shawbrook and Mr I but the agreement 
for the treatment was between S and Ms W.
Ref: DRN19952922Ss paperwork is no longer available, but it isnt in dispute here that the treatment was going  
to be provided by S to Ms W. It is clear  from the credit agreement that Shawbrook provided  
the finance for Mr l.  
The very nature of this type of treatment means that it will be the patient, Ms W, who will 
have to consent to and receive it. This is therefore a contract between solely Ms W and the 
supplier for specific treatment for Ms W. So, while Mr I paid for the treatment,  he wasnt  
being treated  and so I dont think he had the requisite relationship with the supplier. 
As, I do not think there  is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship  in these circumstances, 
I do not think Shawbrook  has acted unfairly  or unreasonably in declining  Mr Is section 75 
claim. 
I know Mr I will be disappointed  that he is unable to get his money back because of a 
technicality. And I completely understand why he feels  someone  should be responsible 
given Ms W never received the treatment  he paid for. But I have to consider whether 
Shawbrook is liable  here and without the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier relationship I 
cant say Mr I has a valid claim against it.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Is 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020..
Michael Ball
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1995292