K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Ms M are unhappy that Barclays Bank  UK Plc didnt clearly notify them  of changes 
to a home insurance  policy, which included personal  lawyer  cover  a form of legal expenses 
insurance (LEI).
background
In or around 2006 Mr S bought a home insurance policy  (the policy) through Barclays. The 
policy has been renewed each year. 
More recently, Mr S sought to make a claim on the LEI policy  to represent him in a dispute 
he was having  with his life insurer. However,  that claim was declined because the LEI policy  
doesnt cover disputes with any financial  services  supplier arising from the sale or 
performance of products  and services offered or provided to the policyholder. 
Mr S and Ms M say when the policy was first sold to them  the LEI didnt contain that 
exclusion. Barclays says a number of changes  were made  to the LEI policy  in 2012. It says it 
notified Mr S and Ms M of these at the time by way of a document which was sent to them 
entitled summary of important changes (the summary document).  
Mr S and Ms M cannot recall receiving the summary  document  and even if they had 
received and read it, they say they wouldnt have understood from the contents that the LEI 
coverage had been  significantly reduced. They also say the exclusion relating to financial 
services isnt clear and it doesnt clearly explain that claims about  insurance products arent 
covered. If they had been clearly notified  about the changes to the LEI policy  in 2012  they 
say they wouldve arranged cover with an alternative home insurance provider.
So they complained to Barclays. It concluded  that Mr S and Ms M had been  clearly notified 
of the changes to the LEI policy  in 2012.  However, as a gesture of goodwill it did offer them 
£1,150 which equates  to the approximate cost of the home  insurance  premium for one year. 
Barclays did accept that it couldve dealt with the complaint in a timelier manner and offered  
£350 compensation for this. So, all in all, Mr S and Ms M were offered £1,500.
Mr S and Ms M accepted the sum to resolve the issue about the way in which  Barclays 
handled the complaint. But they remain unhappy about the way in which  Barclays notified 
them of the changes to the LEI policy. So theyve  asked  us to look into that particular issue.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. Mr S and Ms M dont accept that and have 
raised further points  in reply. The complaint has now been passed to me to look at 
everything afresh and to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN19510832Its not unusual  for an insurer  to want to make changes to the terms of the policy. And 
generally we dont consider it unfair  for that to happen at renewal; thats when  the 
policyholder and the insurer enter into a new contract with each other.  
Barclays didnt advise  Mr S and Ms M to take out the policy. It was sold on a non-advised 
basis. In that case we would expect any significant changes to the policy  to be highlighted to 
them before renewal, so that Mr S and Ms M couldve considered if the policy remained 
suitable for them.
Barclays has given us a copy of the summary  document it says was sent to Mr S and Ms M 
in 2012 along with the other renewal documents, notifying them of the changes that would 
be made to the LEI policy  at the point of renewal that year. But it hasnt been  able to give us 
a copy of the covering letter to Mr S and Ms M dated  2012 enclosing the summary 
document, or a screenshot showing that such a letter was generated around that time. 
Instead, its provided us with a computer printout showing that the system hasnt stored 
documents for Mr S and Ms M during the period 2011 and 2014. I dont know the reasons for 
that but it means theres  nothing  to support the summary document  was sent. 
So I have  to consider what  most likely happened.  And on balance,  I think the summary 
document was sent to them. Thats because:
I think its most likely  Mr S and Ms M wouldve been sent documents confirming the 
policy had been renewed in 2012  and although they cant recall  having received the 
summary document, they havent  said there  were a number  of years where they 
didnt receive any renewal documents at all (and if they hadnt  received anything 
confirming the policy renewal for a number of years, I wouldve expected them to 
have contacted Barclays and / or the insurer at the time querying this). So rather than 
the renewal documents having  not been  sent between 2011  and 2014 - as the 
printout referred  to above might  suggest - I think its more  likely that there  has been a 
glitch in the system  meaning that the dates on which  the renewal documents and 
their respective covering letters were generated, and sent to Mr S and Ms M, just 
havent been kept. 
Barclays says the summary document wouldve been sent around  seven  years  ago. 
Its not surprising  that Mr S and Ms M wouldnt recall having received, or read it. I 
acknowledge that they now say the exclusions that were added  to the LEI policy in 
2012 significantly reduced its coverage. But at the time, as they didnt have an 
impending dispute  about financial services, its probable that they wouldnt have paid 
too much  attention  to that particular  change.
Having found  that its likely the summary document was sent, looking at what  it says and 
how the information is set out, Im satisfied Barclays let Mr S and Ms M know about the 
changes made to the LEI policy in a clear, fair and not misleading way. Thats  because:
The front page of the summary  document says it contains  important information and 
changes to the policy that you need  to know about before you renew
The amendments to the LEI policy are set out on page 3 of the summary document. 
It says at the top of that page  that a number of changes have been made to the LEI 
section of the policy. The main changes are then listed using  bullet points. One of 
those is: Some new general exclusions have been added   please refer to 
Ref: DRN19510833paragraphs j, k, m and p of the Legal Expenses Exclusions section in the full new 
Legal Expenses policy wording.
At the bottom of that page it says the new LEI policy wording is shown on the next 
page and that the policyholder should  take time to read through this carefully so that 
they understand the cover which applies from your renewal date.  The LEI excisions 
section is set out page 8 of the summary document. And one of the clauses that the 
policyholder has been referred to, clause (j), says cover isnt provided for: a dispute 
with any financial services  supplier  arising from the sale of products  and services  
offered or provided to you
Im also conscious that Mr S and Ms M wouldve received the policy  terms containing the 
exclusion relating  to financial services when the policy renewed each year, certainly  from 
2015, and for the reasons  highlighted above  probably from 2012 onwards. It was for them to 
check whether the cover  provided was right for them,  taking into account the policy  terms.
Ive taken into account what Mr S and Ms M says about the reference made to excluding 
claims for financial  services being misleading. They say it doesnt make  clear that this also 
excluded disputes  about insurance products. But I think  its reasonable to assume  that most 
people would expect  financial  services to include insurance, and, on balance, I think thats  
clear enough  from looking  at the exclusion as a whole.  
my final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc doesnt need to do anything. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Ms M to accept or reject my 
decision before  20 June 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1951083