K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold them  a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in October 2019 explaining why I wasnt intending 
to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. A copy of my provisional decision  is attached  and forms 
part of my final decision.
I asked Mr and Mrs L and Nationwide  to provide me with any further comments  and 
evidence they would  like me to consider. However,  neither party  has provided me with any 
further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
As neither party has provided me with anything further to consider, I dont see any reason to 
depart from the findings as set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I dont think  Mr 
and Mrs Ls policy was mis-sold for the same  reasons as those set out in my provisional 
decision.
Ive also considered the commission aspect  of the complaint. Our adjudicator had previously 
explained why this element of the complaint  was not being upheld  either.  For the sake of 
clarity, I am setting out the reasons  here.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
 
Nationwide has given  me information  that shows Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage was taken out in 
January 2001  and ended in November 2001. So based on what  Ive said above, I dont think 
the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  judgment, 
Ref: DRN19261492or the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  
apply here.
So Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs L paid for the PPI 
they had with their mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint against Nationwide  Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 December 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19261493copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold them  a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage with Nationwide in January 2001. They were sold PPI in 
connection with this mortgage some  six months later.
Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Ls names, the PPI only covered Mr L. 
It would have provided a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months if Mr L was off work sick.
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and thought it should  be upheld  because Mr L told 
us he worked for various agencies at the time of the sale. As an agency  worker, the 
adjudicator thought Mr L would have been  affected  by the exclusions/restrictions  in the 
policy which  would have  made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy.  
Nationwide disagreed with our adjudicator  and said they would like to see some  evidence 
that Mr L was an agency/temporary worker at the time of the sale as Mr L had not mentioned  
this when asked  by Nationwide and when  he initially  filled in our PPI questionnaire.  
The complaint has now come to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Having done that, Im currently not intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. I will now 
explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs L that the PPI was optional  and needed  their 
consent before it could  be applied to the account.  Nationwide no longer  have  the documents  
from the time of the sale. This is understandable given the length of time since  the sale. 
Equally understandably, Mr and Mrs L havent  provided any detailed  evidence as to what  
happened during the sale. But what this does mean is that I dont have sufficient evidence to 
conclude that its more likely that Nationwide didnt  make it clear the policy was optional  
particularly given that the PPI was sold some six months after the mortgage had been taken 
out  or that it was applied to the account without their consent.
Nationwide say they didnt advise Mr and Mrs L to take PPI. From what I understand of the 
sales process at the time of the sale, and without sufficient evidence to say otherwise, I 
accept Nationwide  didnt  advise Mr and Mrs L to take PPI. This means they didnt have  to 
take reasonable steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for them.
Ref: DRN19261494But they did still have  to provide Mr and Mrs L with clear information  about the policy,  in 
particular, about  the costs,  benefits  and main  exclusions under the policy. I dont know if 
Nationwide did provide the information as clearly as they should have. But it doesnt 
necessarily follow that Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld as I need  to consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking the PPI out.
Based on the evidence  currently  available  to me, I dont think better  information  would  have 
put them off taking it out. I say this because:
-Mr L didnt have  any other guaranteed  means  of meeting the mortgage repayments if he 
was off work sick. Mr L has told us he wasnt entitled to any employee  sick pay. He says 
his family could have  helped,  however, the mortgage was a serious  commitment  and 
help from other family members couldnt be guaranteed  if and when the need arose.
-I cant currently see that Mr L was affected  by the terms in the policy which would  have 
made it difficult  for him to make a successful claim under the policy or would have made 
him ineligible to make a claim.   Although Mr L has told us he was an agency  worker at the 
time of the sale, there is some discrepancy  between the evidence  he has provided and 
what the business have provided in terms of length of employment. Mr L has told us that he 
was employed for over four years at the time of the sale with various agencies. However, 
the screen shot from Nationwide shows that Mr L had been with the same employer for less 
than a year. Im inclined to prefer the evidence  which  Nationwide  have provided as it dates 
back to the time of the sale. Of course  this doesnt necessarily mean  that Mr L was not an 
agency worker  at the time of the sale or that the two lengths of employment cannot be 
reconciled, but I would  need some evidence from Mr L to explain the difference between  
the lengths of employment to be satisfied that the discrepancy between  the length  of 
employment was not because Mr L had also got the nature of his employment  confused  
from the time of the sale. Its currently not clear  to me whether the information  Mr L has 
provided is in fact correct  for the date of sale. If Mr and Mrs L are able to provide evidence  
of Mr Ls work status at the time of the sale or some further  supportive  testimony  as to why 
Mr L thinks he was an agency  worker  at the time of the sale then I can reconsider my 
decision. I understand that this evidence  has been requested  previously too but we havent 
received a response from Mr and Mrs L about this.
-I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the cost of the policy meant  that it wasnt  of 
value for money in Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances or that they couldnt afford it.
-Mr and Mrs L couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing  out financially if 
they no longer needed  or wanted it.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I currently havent seen sufficient evidence to 
uphold this complaint.  
my provisional decision
I currently dont think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld.  I will consider  any further 
evidence of information provided  by the parties before 2 November  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1926149