K821x#15Complaint
Mr G - the executor of the estate of Mrs G - complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc are unwilling 
to 
cancel a bankers draft that has been lost in the post. 
Background
Mr G requested four bankers drafts from an HSBC branch in March 2019 to distribute the 
proceeds 
of his late mothers estate. The staff in the HSBC branch suggested that Mr G 
send the payments electronically however Mr G chose bankers drafts as his solicitor had 
told him they were the best option in terms of having a paper trail. Mr G was not given any 
specific terms & conditions regarding bankers drafts at the time of purchase, nor was he told 
what would happen in the case of a lost or stolen draft.
Mr G posted the draft intended for his brother using the Royal Mail Signed ForTM service. 
Mr 
Gs brother was not home when the draft was delivered, and he did not collect the letter 
from the post office within the18-day timeframe for collection. The letter could not be 
returned to the sender as there was no return address. As such the letter containing the draft 
was returned to Royal Mails National Returns Centre in April 2019. Royal Mail could not 
locate the draft when Mr G contacted them, and they advised Mr G that the draft had most 
likely been destroyed in line with their normal process. Royal Mail confirmed they do not 
keep any records of post they dispose of.
As Royal Mail could not confirm the fate of the letter, Mr G decided to cancel the draft and he 
contacted 
HSBC about how to do this. Mr G was given conflicting information by HSBC in 
relation to whether the draft could be cancelled. He was advised on two separate occasions 
that he could pay a £10 fee to have the draft cancelled. However, the latest information he 
received from HSBC was that a banker's draft cannot be cancelled and that if he would like a 
refund or a replacement draft, he would have to sign an indemnity agreeing to be liable for 
the full amount of the draft were it ever to be found and cashed in the future. 
HSBC have said they will place a caution on the draft once Mr G signs the indemnity so that 
if anyone presents the draft for payment, it will be highlighted as a lost item. This is in line 
with their internal procedures however, there is no guarantee from HSBC that the caution 
would prevent the draft from being cashed. Mr G is unhappy with this proposal as he would 
be accepting responsibility for the full amount of the draft by signing the indemnity. Mr G said 
this suggestion has caused him a lot of stress and confusion.
Although HSBC will not stop or re-issue a new bankers draft, they have made a payment of 
£100 to the account to compensate for the inconvenience caused when Mr G was given the 
incorrect information about their process.
DRN19135372Mr G wasnt happy with HSBCs response and he referred his complaint to us. In order to 
resolve the complaint Mr G would like HSBC to confirm that the draft has been stopped and 
provide him with a replacement draft for his brother without him having to sign an indemnity.
Our investigator considered Mr Gs complaint and recommended that HSBC either cancel 
the banker's draft and issue a replacement or alternatively issue a replacement draft without 
asking Mr G to sign the required indemnity.  HSBC did not agree with our investigator and 
asked for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My provisional decision 
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and why I wasnt minded to uphold  the complaint. I invited  both parties to let me 
have any further  comments  they wished to make in response to my provisional conclusions.
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im minded not to 
uphold the complaint. I appreciate that Mr G will be disappointed with my decision 
and I have explained my reasoning below. 
I am satisfied that Mr G has done all he can to try and locate the missing draft. We 
know it was returned  to the National  Returns Centre  in April and Royal Mails usual 
process is to dispose of any undeliverable  items when they cannot find a return 
address. There is no requirement  for a return address  to be provided.  
Although there is no way for us to be sure that the draft has been  destroyed,  I think 
this is the most likely thing  to have happened based on what Royal Mail have told 
Mr G would happen as a matter of policy. This aligns with the information  detailed on 
their website for undeliverable  post.  
Mr G was advised by HSBC on two separate occasions that it was possible to cancel 
a draft for a fee of £10. HSBC has accepted that this information was incorrect,  and 
they have made a payment of £100  to the account in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience this error has caused.  I am satisfied  that this is a fair amount for the 
trouble and upset  Mr G has experienced.
When Mr G requested the drafts from the HSBC branch, he was not given any 
information about what would happen  if the drafts were to be lost or stolen and HSBC 
have confirmed that this is not information they would  normally  give at the time of a 
draft purchase.
I have seen HSBCs process  for dealing  with lost and stolen bankers drafts  and I 
accept that a draft cannot be stopped as part of their process  but that a caution can 
be placed on the draft if an indemnity is signed  by the customer.  This process, 
including asking for an indemnity to be signed, is a relatively common practise in the 
industry. HSBC have said they will apply a caution  to the original draft Mr G 
purchased which will alert staff to it being a lost item should an attempt be made to 
encash it in the future, and this should prevent it from being cashed.3HSBC have also confirmed that the draft must  be paid into an account  in the name  of 
the person it was issued to, further narrowing the opportunity for it to be cashed 
fraudulently.
I think it is reasonable for HSBC to ask Mr G to agree to sign the indemnity  in line 
with their internal  process. Once the indemnity is signed, HSBC  will either issue a 
replacement draft or return  the funds to the account  the original draft was purchased 
from. I understand why Mr G is uncomfortable  with signing the indemnity however, as 
executor of the estate Mr G could already be held personally financially liable for any 
loss to the estate  which  affects a beneficiary. 
Additionally, the fact that the draft has not been presented for payment so far 
increases the likelihood that the letter  containing the draft was destroyed  by Royal  
Mail when  it was returned to the National Returns  Centre in April.  
Taking all of this into account,  I believe there is little chance of Mr G being exposed 
to the loss of the value of this bankers  draft and I dont  believe that there is any 
increased probability of the draft turning up by Mr G signing  the indemnity.
HSBC need to ensure that appropriate  action is taken by them  to prevent the original
bankers draft from being  cashed, were it ever to turn up, as failing to do so might 
impact any right they would have  to seek repayment under the indemnity.
I do not see that the actions of HSBC have  been unfair or unreasonable in this case. 
I therefore think the fairest outcome in this instance is for Mr G to sign the indemnity 
and for HSBC to return the funds to the account.  Mr G can then either purchase a 
replacement draft or he may want to consider  sending the payment electronically. 
The response  to my provisional  decision 
HSBC did not have any further comments.
Mr G reiterated his concerns about  the impact  there  would be on him personally  if the draft 
were to be cashed. He also provided  evidence to show that he had pursued the possibility of 
insuring himself against the possibility of the draft ever being cashed  however this was 
unsuccessful. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Mr Gs response to them.
I understand that Mr G is extremely anxious about  the potential prospect  of being liable for 
the full amount of the draft were  it ever to be cashed  and I truly sympathise with him.
However, HSBC arent willing to issue a replacement draft without  Mr G giving that 
indemnity. Understandably,  they arent willing to leave themselves  open to the possibility 
Mr G is seeking to avoid  for himself,  especially as they werent responsible  for the drafts 
loss in the first place.  I cant  say its unreasonable to require Mr G to sign the indemnity.4Further, I  think it is important to restate that as executor of the estate, Mr G could already be 
held personally financially liable for any loss to the estate which affects a beneficiary even if 
the loss was caused by a genuine mistake. 
I know  that Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, but I would like to remind him that if 
there were ever to be an issue in the future with the original draft being encashed, then he 
might at that point be able to complain to the bank.
My final decision 
For these  reasons, and the reasons outlined in my provisional findings, Im not persuaded to 
change my mind. My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the  rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman