K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) mis-sold  payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  to them alongside  a mortgage. 
Background
Mr and Mrs P took out a further advance to their mortgage in 2010. At the same time, they 
were sold a PPI policy. This was a regular premium policy, which  meant they paid for the 
insurance monthly. It was set up to cover Mr P only. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Through their representative, 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with that view. They said the impact  of Mr Ps medical  condition  
hadnt been taken into account. As the parties are not in agreement  with our adjudicator, the 
matter has been  passed to me to make  a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, but I havent  upheld  their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
From considering the paperwork, it seems likely to me that PPI was sold during  a meeting 
between the parties.  I cant  know what was said during  that meeting. So to help me decide 
whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs P told us about it. And Ive 
also considered  the documents  that are available from that time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr and Mrs P would have  known they had a choice 
about buying this PPI cover. Mr and Mrs P told us that they were  told they had to buy PPI for 
their mortgage to be accepted. But having considered the mortgage  application  form, I can 
see there were two sections on the application form  one to complete  to indicate Mr and 
Mrs P wanted PPI and another to indicate  they didnt. They have  completed  the form to say 
they wanted a policy.  I can also see that they refused some other financial products that 
Natwest offered at that time. 
On balance, I think the discussions that took place during the sale are probably reflected by 
whats written  in the paperwork. I think the wording is sufficiently clear  to indicate the policy  
was optional. And so I think  they probably  knew they could  have refused this cover if they 
wanted to. 
Although I can see that Natwest advised Mr and Mrs P about  their mortgage, the evidence 
Ive seen doesnt suggest that this was an advised PPI sale. Even so, Natwest  still had to 
give Mr and Mrs P enough information about the cover so they could decide for themselves 
whether it was a good fit for their needs. That information had to be clear,  fair and not 
misleading. 
I accept its possible that Natwest didnt tell everything it should have done about the cover. 
So the question  for me now is whether they would have acted differently if Natwest had 
Ref: DRN11407502provided all of the necessary information. To help me decide what theyre likely to have 
done, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive looked at what  Mr and 
Mrs P told us about their personal circumstances at the time.  
I can see that if theyd had to make  a claim,  Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage repayments  would 
have been covered for up to 12 months  if Mr P had lost his job or if he was too unwell to 
work. I understand  Mr P would have  received  six months full pay and six months half pay 
from work.  So it follows that I think the cover would have lasted for longer than Mr Ps sick 
pay. 
Mr and Mrs P told us that they had savings they could have used to put towards their 
mortgage if Mr P was out of work. But I think  its important for me to state that this loan was 
secured on their home.  And if Mr and Mrs P fell behind with their mortgage repayments,  the 
consequences could  have been  significant.  I think that with a PPI policy, Mr and Mrs P would 
have been able to use any savings they had on their other  essential  expenditure at what 
would have no doubt been a very stressful time for them if Mr P couldnt work.
Ive thought carefully at what Mr and Mrs P told us about Mr Ps medical condition. Its not 
entirely clear  what that medical issue was. But rather unusually, after considering the policy 
documents for this particular cover, as our adjudicator said, I dont think  Mr P would have 
been excluded  from making a claim  for a pre-existing medical condition. I havent  seen 
anything else about Mr Ps circumstances that would  have  stopped him from making a 
successful claim  if he needed to. 
Taking everything into account,  I think PPI could have been  helpful to Mr and Mrs P if Mr P 
was out of work.  Looking at the paperwork,  I think they probably chose to buy PPI  so it 
looks as though they wanted this type of cover at the time.  With all of this in mind, I dont 
think more or better information would have stopped Mr and Mrs P from buying PPI. 
It follows that I havent upheld the complaint and I dont require Natwest to take any further  
action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1140750