K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about the way Legal & General Insurance  Limited  handled a claim 
under their buildings  insurance policy.
background
In March 2018, there was a leak in Mr and Mrs As property.  L&G accepted the claim and 
started the drying  process. Progress  of this was slowed  as L&G had to check that the 
property didnt have  asbestos. Once  it was confirmed that this wasnt  an issue, the repair 
works started and were completed  around  mid-June 2018.
Mr and Mrs A complained about the way their claim had been  handled. They  said they were  
initially told repairs would be completed by 30 April 2018, but L&G caused three months  of 
delays.
Mr and Mrs A said phone calls and emails  werent  returned, and they werent told clearly  
what the schedule  of work covered.  They also said they were left to pack up the contents  of 
their rooms, only to be told later L&G could have assisted with this. And L&G failed to 
reconnect the electricity supply to the garage. When they raised this with L&G there was a 
delay in this being resolved. 
Mr and Mrs A were  in alternative  accommodation for a period of time, and L&G made  a cash  
settlement of £5,250 for a six-month rental  property.  Mr and Mrs A thought this wasnt 
sufficient for them to rent a property equivalent  to their own in their local area. 
L&G responded to some of the issues raised  by Mr and Mrs A separately between  April and 
July 2018. It recognised its service had fallen below  expectations and a total of £325  
compensation was offered to Mr and Mrs A for the issues  raised  and to compensate for the 
additional cost of phone calls.
Our investigator thought L&G had caused  unnecessary delays in the claim,  particularly  
before the drying of the property started and in arranging the works. And the fact that                 
Mr and Mrs A had to pack up the belongings in the rooms affected by the leak had caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience to them. So he recommended  L&G pay an 
additional £200 in compensation. 
But he didnt  think L&G needed to pay any more for the alternative  accommodation.  He said 
the cash settlement  was made in April 2018, and the repairs were  completed in June 2018. 
So Mr and Mrs A hadnt  needed the six months  that L&G had paid them for. 
L&G accepted the findings reached  by our investigator.  Mr and Mrs A didnt think  the 
increased level of compensation reflected the upset L&G had caused during  the weeks  the 
claim was ongoing.  They asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint so the matter  
has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN10502132Theres no dispute that L&Gs service was poor during the claim, so I wont repeat the issues  
faced by Mr and Mrs A as part of this decision.  But Id like to reassure them  that I have 
reviewed the entire handling of the claim and I agree with the findings  reached by our 
investigator.
So as theres no dispute around  the handling of the claim,  the only things for me to consider 
is whether a total compensation amount of £525 is enough to compensate Mr and Mrs A for 
the unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience caused. And whether L&G should  pay more  
towards the alternative accommodation costs.
Having looked  at everything, I dont think L&G need to pay any more compensation to         
Mr and Mrs A. I know this will be disappointing to them, but Ive explained why below.
When we award payments for unnecessary distress and inconvenience, we look at the 
impact on the people involved.  We dont  award money for each individual  error, instead  we 
look at everything that has happened  to decide  whats fair compensation overall. Whilst its 
clear the service from L&G was poor, the original  schedule of works  had a completion date 
of 30 April 2018. In the end the claim was delayed by around seven weeks. So although this 
is unfortunate  as much of this delay could have been avoided by L&G  I think its still a 
relatively short period  of time that the inconvenience  was suffered by Mr and Mrs A. And Ive 
taken into account  that they were provided  with alternative accommodation costs to limit the 
impact on their day to day living.
Ive looked at the cash settlement L&G made for the alternative  accommodation.                 
Mr and Mrs A dont  think the amount paid by L&G was sufficient for them  to rent a property  
that was equivalent to their own, in a suitably  comparable area. They  said L&G based  the 
rental costs  on properties that were in much  less desirable areas than where they lived, so it 
wasnt a like for like property.  I appreciate  Mr and Mrs As point, but as part of this decision I 
havent assessed whether the amount offered was sufficient for an equivalent property. This 
is because in the end L&G paid Mr and Mrs A for more alternative accommodation than was 
needed. 
When it cash settled in April 2018  L&G paid Mr and Mrs A £5,250 for a six month  rental 
period. But the repairs  were  completed  by mid-June,  so they only needed alternative 
accommodation for around two months.  So even  if L&Gs amount wouldnt have covered 
them for six months for a comparable property, I havent seen  anything  which  suggests       
Mr and Mrs A had to pay for six months of alternative accommodation  costs.  So Im satisfied 
that the payment made was sufficient for the two months  they did need the alternative 
accommodation.
I appreciate this has been a very stressful time for Mr and Mrs A and they had their holiday 
plans disrupted  on numerous occasions due to the poor handling of the claim. But I think the 
total compensation of £525  for distress and inconvenience is in line with awards this service  
has made in similar cases. And Ive also taken into account that they were paid more than 
L&G needed  to for alternative accommodation costs.
my final decision
My final decision is that Legal  & General Insurance Limited need to pay Mr and Mrs A £525  
in compensation  for distress and inconvenience, minus any amount it has already  paid.
Ref: DRN10502133Legal & General Insurance Limited  should pay this within  28 days of us telling it Mr and 
Mrs A accept my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it should  add interest to the 
compensation at 8% simple per year from the date of my decision to the date it makes  
paymenti 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
i If Legal & General Insurance  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr and Mrs A how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs A a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1050213