K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1994. The policy  provided cover  for Mr G in 
the event of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Nationwide didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint  because  I dont  think Nationwide gave him clear 
enough information about the policy. I say this because the policy had a ninety day waiting 
period before it would  start to pay benefits.  On balance, I think its unlikely that Nationwide  
pointed this out to Mr G when he bought the PPI.
I think this would have  mattered to Mr G because he didnt have any other  means of 
covering his mortgage repayments during the waiting period. This couldve contributed to 
financial problems for Mr G if he couldnt  pay his mortgage.
I dont think Mr G would have bought the policy if hed had enough information  about it. So, I 
think Mr G has lost out because of what the business did wrong.  
Nationwide points out that the PPI was a compulsory  part of Mr Gs mortgage. So it 
considers he couldve  arranged his borrowing elsewhere if he wasnt  happy with 
Nationwides terms of lending. 
But if Nationwide was selling  the PPI as part of the mortgage deal, it still had to give Mr G 
enough information about it so he could make a choice about whether the combine 
mortgage and PPI package was suitable  for him. 
I accept that Nationwide probably  gave  Mr G a leaflet about the PPI during the mortgage 
application process, and made the policy document available to him. 
But Im mindful that the sale of the PPI took place as part of a mortgage application, and that 
Mr G was likely to have been  given significant amounts of information  during that process.
On balance I think its unlikely he wouldve  had an opportunity to study the PPI leaflet or 
policy document in detail  during the application process. And I also think its unlikely that 
Nationwide wouldve pointed out the policys waiting period to him.
Ref: DRN14799622Nationwide mentions that Mr G had said his family  wouldve helped him pay the mortgage if 
he couldnt work. But we dont consider family support to be an alternative means  of 
covering mortgage  repayments, as personal circumstances can change  so family support 
may not always have  been available.  
Nationwide has also referred to another decision by this service, which wasnt upheld.  The 
society considers the circumstances are similar to those  in Mr Gs complaint. Ive noted what 
its said, but we consider  each complaint individually and according to its own 
circumstances. And having taken  that approach in this case, I remain of the view that Mr G 
wouldnt have bought the policy if hed had better  information about it. 
Overall, the points Nationwide has raised  dont change my conclusions in this complaint. 
what Nationwide should  do to put things right
Nationwide should  put Mr G in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken  out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide should:
Pay Mr G the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
compensation to Mr G in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1479962