K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that their mortgagee TSB Bank plc has given them conflicting 
information about their mortgage causing  stress and wasted time.
To resolve  their complaint  theyd  like the early repayment charge (ERC) waived  and 
additional compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs E have  a TSB mortgage with a product  which  carries  an ERC. Theyre  unhappy 
because TSB has given them conflicting information.
On their complaint  to TSB it acknowledged  that on 21 March  2019 at 16:11,  Mr and Mrs E 
had called and asked how much it would cost to redeem the mortgage. The TSB adviser  had 
confirmed there was a discharge of mortgage fee of £250.00. The adviser  didnt mention the 
ERC. Mr and Mrs E had called back at 16:34,  and during  this conversation  an adviser had 
told them  there was an ERC because they had a mortgage  product. 
TSB also acknowledged that it had given Mr and Mrs E conflicting information about  the 
ERC in previous calls.
TSB had offered  Mr and Mrs E £100  for the trouble and upset  caused  by the conflicting 
information but they had declined this offer and had requested that the ERC be waived.
TSB wasnt willing to do this. It said the mortgage illustration issued to Mr and Mrs E on 
24 October 2017 clearly  explained the ERC. The annual  mortgage  statements referred to 
ERCs being applicable  with new products. The agreed documentation clearly  explained that 
the ERC  would be applicable.
Mr and Mrs E werent happy  with this and brought their complaint to this service, but our 
investigator didnt  recommend it be upheld. She thought  that waiving the ERC would be 
disproportionate to what had happened  so she wouldnt  be asking TSB to do this. 
Shed looked  at whether  the offer of £100  was fair in the circumstances, and she thought  it 
was.
Section 7 of the mortgage illustration  said:
You have the right to repay this loan early,  either  fully or partially.
The following  charges  are payable if you repay the loan in full or in part (except for permitted 
overpayments) before 31 October 2022:
The maximum charge you could pay is £3,247.19
You will also need to pay the discharge of mortgage  fees.
Should you decide to repay this loan early,  please contact us to ascertain the exact level
of the early repayment  charge at that moment.
Ref: DRN10189662So the investigator thought Mr and Mrs E were aware or should have been aware that there  
would be an ERC  to pay if they made  overpayments.
Mr and Mrs E didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. They  said a 
claim for moderate inconvenience  or distress  was worth up to £500 and they were still not 
happy with £100 for the upset and stress  this had caused. Especially when TSB knew that 
the money they wanted to repay was from a close  family member who had just died. The 
investigator hadnt considered their stress and sleepless  nights  and amount of time on the 
phone. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This isnt a case in which a consumer has signed  up to a mortgage product carrying an ERC 
as a result  of being incorrectly advised  by the lender that there was no ERC. Mr and Mrs E 
already had the ERC, but were told by TSB that they could redeem or overpay  without  
incurring it. That error was swiftly corrected, and theres  no suggestion that Mr and Mrs E 
proceeded to redeem  the mortgage on the basis of the initial incorrect advice.
Some trouble and upset  was caused to Mr and Mrs E by the incorrect advice but I consider 
TSBs offer of £100 for this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
TSB Bank plc has already  made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that TSB Bank plc should  pay Mr and Mrs E £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 January 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1018966