K820x#14complaint
Mrs W is unhappy about the handling of a claim and cover  provided under a home
emergency insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in January 2020,  part of which is copied below: 
Mrs W made a claim  under her policy in August 2018 as a drain serving her property was
blocked. British  Gas sent its contractors out on 28 and 31 August 2018. They put a camera
down the drain  and cleared a blockage. They apparently found  a fault whereby one of the
joints had formed a lip which was trapping  waste and blocking flow. However, the
contractors said they could not rectify this under the policy,  as it only covers the alleviation of
the immediate  emergency (which theyd  done) and rectifying the fault would amount to
betterment, or an upgrade of the drains.  The contractors apparently  asked Mrs W to sign a
mandate to allow it to manage a home insurance claim to have  this work done on her behalf,
which she refused.
Mrs W challenged this decision but British  Gas would not agree to do the work.  Mrs W asked
what would  happen  if the drain  repeatedly blocked,  which she said would be inevitable  if the
joint had displaced and was trapping  waste. British Gas said it would review  the policy if it
was being used too often.
In October  2018, the drains blocked again  and Mrs W got her own contractors to inspect the
entire pipe.  They jetted the pipe to clear it and they also found  a broken section further down
from where British Gas contractors inspected, which was allowing sewage to seep  into the
ground. Mrs W says the drainpipe has blocked again since  then and when there  is heavy
rain it also causes a foul smell in the downstairs  toilet connected to it. Mrs W says her
husband has been able to clear  the drain  himself so far, using a power  washer.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He recommended  that it be upheld, as he
thought the repair of the drains  should be covered to stop further  blockages.  He also
recommended that British  Gas pay Mrs W £100 compensation for the trouble caused to her.
British Gas says although  Mrs W says the drain has repeatedly blocked, it has only been
called out about this once,  in August 2018. It would  have  come out in October 2018, if it had
been notified of the second blockage. In addition, comments Mrs W made suggests the
blockage is on a shared part of the drain  which  is not covered under the policy.
Mrs W obtained confirmation  from her water suppler that the drain was not shared with any
other property. The water supplier also confirmed  that there was a displaced joint,  which  was
causing blockages.
Our adjudicator suggested that British  Gas attend  again to inspect the drains  and if it agreed
that was a fault, it should repair it.
British Gas sent different drain  contractors who provided a report. It says the policy covers
repairs to drains in the event that flow cannot be restored by using normal  methods, or
where waste water if leaking out of the drain under normal  use. British  Gas says the
blockages have been cleared by jetting, so flow can be restored by using normal  methods
and suggests  there  is no leaking  of waste.  British Gas also says that the second report
confirms that the drains were incorrectly installed,  as there is insufficient gradient/fall and
Ref: DRN17486112rectification of poor installation isnt covered. And finally British  Gas also says,  the damage
to the joint would be deemed  to be accidental damage, which is excluded under the policy.
Following consideration  of this second report,  the investigator changed  his mind and said he
was not recommending  that British Gas should  carry out any further  work.
Mrs W doesnt accept the investigators  assessment.  She says:
The investigator has changed his mind based on one final piece of evidence  provided
by British Gass own contractors, which can hardly  be considered  fair or impartial.
The second contractors report is also at odds with the findings of British Gass
previous contractors, her contractor and the water  supply company.
The investigator has also accepted British Gas's word that all the defects in the
drains were  present  since  their installation, i.e. since  1966.  She bought the house in
2001 and there were  no drain problems until recently. The lack of 'fall' in the drain
may well have been present since installation but the crack/hole in the drain cannot
possibly have been. It is this, which is causing the problems.
British Gas has been continually allowed to search the contract  for any clause which
would allow it to abdicate  responsibility and to continually generate new evidence  to
best-fit these get-out clauses.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not agree with the
investigators findings and will explain why.
The relevant  part of the policy says:
Drains
Whats covered:
repairing and unblocking drains  to restore flow
repairing leaks to internal waste water pipes and external soil and vent pipes
a replacement of parts we cant repair
accidental damage.
It excludes shared  drains and some other matters, not relevant to this case.
The damage to the joints  might  be considered  accidental  but the drainage  section of cover
clearly includes cover for accidental damage. It excludes accidental damage  to parts of the
central heating system,  but that is not relevant here.
I dont agree with British  Gas that this policy wording means  that it only needs  to restore
flow. The clause set out above, contains  the conjunction and which  I consider means that
British Gas is obligated to also repair the pipe and not just unblock it.
In any event, even  if I accepted British Gass argument that it only needs  to unblock the pipe
to restore the flow (which  I dont), I dont think it has necessarily done enough to
demonstrate it has done this. Flow may have been  restored, in that soil waste  is now flowing
out, but a broken section  of pipe and a displaced  joint, will inevitably mean that some of the
volume of water will be seeping out into the ground, rather than being carried  away in the
Ref: DRN17486113pipe as intended. Therefore, it seems to me that flow through  the pipe cannot be said to
have been properly restored.
Mrs Ws contractor  confirmed this in his report: carried out CCTV and high pressure water
jetting to clear and check condition. Large open  joint and potential  water escaping, minimal
fall on rain, no vent all combining to create  problem.
I also agree  with Mrs W that there is a reasonable expectation that any repair  will last for a
reasonable period of time.  In this case, it seems that British  Gas accepts that it is inevitable
that the waste pipe will block again  and says it will attend again to unblock.  I dont consider
this reasonable.
British Gas says that no further blockages have been reported to it. There was clearly a
blockage which led to Mrs W instructing her own contractor and since then she says her
husband has had to use a pressure hose  to clear further blockages. I have no reason  to
doubt what she has said about this and the reasons why she was put off reporting any
further incidences  to British Gas. I therefore  also consider that she would not have had to
incur this expense,  if British Gas had advised her properly when it first attended to the claim.
It should therefore reimburse this cost, together with interest  at our usual rate.
British Gas has also said that the drains  have not been installed correctly  and it will not cover
the cost of rectifying such faults. The policy doesnt cover pre-existing faults with drains but I
cant see that this is relevant to this case.  There is no evidence that the displaced joints were
pre-existing. The drains may have been installed with insufficient  fall (though  this has not
been proven,  as the gradient  may have  changed  over time, which might explain the
displacement at the joints) and this may be a contributory factor  to the problems. However,
the primary cause of the blockages appears  to be the displaced joints.  But for the displaced
joint, I am not persuaded that Mrs W would be experiencing any issues.
In addition, I note that her contractor recommended that the pipe be excavated, a new
plastic manhole installed, the rain vented  and a sleeve  installed. He didnt recommend 
relaying the entire pipe at a different gradient.
For the reasons  given,  I consider that the policy  terms do provide that British Gas should
have repaired the broken  pipe when it first attended. If British  Gas wishes  to make any
representations about the additional costs of a new manhole and vent,  it can do so in
response to this provisional decision.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require  it to do
the following:
reimburse the cost of Mrs Ws contractor of £108 (on provision of proof of payment)
together with interest at 8% simple per annum from the date she paid it to the date of
reimbursement;
arrange for the work required to repair the broken/displaced  pipework, or pay cash in
lieu if agreed otherwise;  and
pay compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mrs W by
this matter.
Ref: DRN17486114responses to my provisional  decision  
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mrs W has confirmed  she has nothing further to add. 
British Gas has also responded.  It does not accept  my provisional decision and has made  
the following  submissions: 
it is disappointed  with the proposed outcome. 
The investigator accepted British Gas's word  that all the defects in the drains were 
present since their installation, i.e. since 1966.  
The drainage  system  was originally laid using salt-glazed clay pipes, parts  have 
since been updated to PVC but without giving enough fall in some  areas.  
The water  level (in the affected  section of pipe)  is minor and whilst relaying this short 
section would be a benefit it is by no means  essential. It is poorly  installed.
It has fulfilled the policy  terms and conditions by restoring the flow, by which  it means 
that waste can get from point A to point B. This would be deemed serviceable by the 
Water Regulations Advisory Scheme. Its current policy  is to unblock and monitor. If a 
second blockage  occurs at the same point it will normally survey the problem section 
of the drain with a camera to assess the serviceability,  and then excavate/line the 
drain if needed. 
There is little to no correlation between  the number of drain repairs  and the likelihood 
of a return visit. As all drains  have  some level of displacement (theyre  not designed 
to have a tight rigid seal) it cant say it will repair leaks on drains. If it did, it would be 
liable to repair nearly all drains,  hence  why it says it will restore flow in the policy   
terms and conditions.
On occasions  some waste does leak into the ground. Whilst this is not ideal, it does  
happen, however,  we always repair any leak above  ground or if it enters or is near to 
the home. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision why I did not agree that British Gas had adequately 
restored the flow in the drains. British  Gas says it has done  so, as waste is carried from point 
A to B and some seepage into the ground is normal. 
While I accept that drains may not be entirely  water tight and that there will sometimes  be 
seepage even  if a drain is serviceable in other respects, in this case  the displaced joint has 
been shown to be the cause of the drain  blocking up. So it would seem to me that this is 
interfering/hindering flow. And the evidence provided by Mrs W suggests the drains were 
continuing to block periodically. Given this, I remain of the opinion  that British Gas has not 
done enough to demonstrate that it has adequately restored flow in the drains.
In any event, however,  I also set out in my provisional decision why I did not think  that 
restoring the flow alone would be enough  for British Gas to have met its obligations under 
the policy. The policy says it will cover repairing  and unblocking  drains to restore flow (my 
Ref: DRN17486115emphasis). So I think it is obliged to repair  the drain, even if it has unblocked it and restored 
flow.  
British Gas has said again that the drains were installed  incorrectly  but the primary cause  of 
the blockages  appears to be the displaced joints. But for the displaced  joint, I am not 
persuaded that Mrs W would be experiencing any issues. British  Gas has not provided  any 
convincing evidence that this is not correct. 
I therefore remain of the opinion  that the policy terms  provide that British Gas should
have repaired the broken  pipe when it first attended. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to do
the following:
reimburse the cost of Mrs Ws contractor of £108 (on provision of proof of payment)
together with interest at 8% simple per annum from the date she paid it to the date of
reimbursement;
arrange for the work required to repair the broken/displaced  pipework, or pay cash in
lieu if agreed otherwise;  and
pay compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mrs W by
this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1748611