K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complains that PDL Finance Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, (PDL), gave him three  
loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr Q took out three instalment loans with PDL as follows:-
Loan number  Date of Loan Number of monthly 
instalments and highest 
instalment amountRepayment date
1. 19/12/2016 Three instalments - 
£127.4621/2/2017
2. 16/3/2017 Three instalments - 
£132.265/4/2017
3. 28/8/2017 Six instalments - £79.73 26/3/2018
Mr Q said that the loan repayments took so much  of his wages that he had to borrow again 
the next month. He borrowed from other  short term lenders to repay PDLs loans and also 
had to use his student loan to repay  them. He said that his credit report  would have shown  
his other  debt repayments and problems.
PDL said that it conducted  credit  checks with a credit reference  agency before the loans,  
although it wasnt obliged  to do so. Its credit check results showed that Mr Qs credit score 
had improved from 545 to 568. It also noted  from its check that Mr Q had no defaults or 
delinquent accounts in the 12 months prior to each  loan. He also didnt have an individual  
voluntary arrangement (IVA) nor was he bankrupt. PDL said that all the loans were  fair and 
should have been affordable based  on the information Mr Q had provided  at the time and the 
checks it had carried out.
The adjudicator said that PDLs checks  went far enough. He concluded that it was 
reasonable for PDL to rely on Mr Qs declared  income and expenditure to determine  if the 
loans were affordable.  He also noted that Mr Qs credit score didnt suggest he was a risk to 
lend to.
Mr Q disagreed. He responded to say that he felt PDL could have done more.  He said that if 
PDL had checked his credit file and not just his credit score, it would have seen  that he had 
several loans running concurrently and that he was at risk. So PDL shouldnt have lent to 
him.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PDL was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to make sure 
Mr Q could afford to repay the loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr Q was borrowing, the length of the loan 
agreement and his lending history. But there  was no set list of checks PDL had to do. 
Ref: DRN17611102The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator at the time Mr Q took his loans 
from PDL. Its regulations  for lenders are set out in its consumer credit sourcebook. These 
regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner without the 
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.  
The FCA defines sustainable as being  able to make repayments without undue difficulty. It 
says this means borrowers should  be able to make their repayments on time and out of their 
income and savings without having  to borrow to meet  these repayments.  
PDL has told us about the checks it did before  lending to Mr Q. I note that PDL asked for 
details of his income  and expenditure. I also note that PDL carried out a credit  check  and 
have seen a brief summary  of the credit  check for the three  loans. 
I note that Mr Q has concerns about PDLs credit  checks. But I can see that as well as the 
credit score, they refer to Mr Q having no defaults or delinquent accounts  in the previous 
twelve months, and no IVAs or bankruptcies. So Im satisfied that PDLs credit check  didnt 
just involve a credit score.
Ive also seen Mr Qs own credit  report. I cant see that he had other short  term loans at the 
date he borrowed Loans 1 and 2. I note that he had one other short  term loan at the date he 
borrowed Loan 3 for which he was paying  three monthly repayments of £129. I also note that 
Mr Qs own report  doesnt show any adverse information such  as defaults within the twelve 
months prior to the loans  that might have caused additional concerns to the lender. 
Im also aware that when  a lender carries  out a credit check,  the information it sees  doesnt
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit report  will and it isnt
necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small  portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware  that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference  agencies. So, Mr Q may have taken other 
payday or short term loans prior to the loans which may not have been  identified by PDLs  
credit check  or his own credit report. So, this may explain any differences between  the 
information provided by PDLs credit check and Mr Qs actual  situation.
Loan 1
Mr Qs income  was declared as £1,100 before Loan  1. Mr Q told PDL that he worked full 
time and named his employer. It doesnt  appear that he told PDL that he was a student. 
Mr Qs declared  expenditure was £249.  I note that the three  monthly repayment amounts  for 
Loan 1 were repayments of up to £127.46. I think that the information PDL gathered  before 
Loan 1 suggested that these loan repayments were affordable, and I think  it was reasonable 
for PDL to rely on the information it had at this early point in the lending. So, Im not 
upholding Mr Qs complaint about Loan 1.
Loan 2
Mr Q repaid Loan 1 around a month before the due date and borrowed Loan 2 three  weeks 
later. Mr Qs declared income was still £1,100 and his declared  expenditure was again £249.  
I note that the three monthly  repayment amounts for Loan  2 were repayments of up to 
£132.26. I think the repayment  amounts were  still relatively modest compared to Mr Qs 
disposable income. So, I still think it was proportionate for PDL to consider Mr Qs 
disposable income again here, without making further checks for Loan 2. So, I dont think 
PDL did anything wrong in giving Loan  2 to Mr Q.
Ref: DRN17611103Loan 3
Mr Q obtained Loan 3 almost five months  after hed repaid Loan 2. The loan was repayable 
by six monthly instalments with a highest instalment of £79.73.  Mr Qs declared income was 
still £1,100 and his declared expenditure had increased to £314. I think it would have been 
proportionate here for PDL to gather  information about Mr Qs income and regular  outgoings, 
which I can see that it did. And the loan repayments  appeared  to be easily affordable  based  
on what Mr Q had told PDL. So I think it was reasonable for PDL to base its affordability 
assessment here on the information  that Mr Q had provided. 
I note that Mr Qs own credit report showed that he had another  short term loan at the time 
of Loan 3 for which three repayments  of £129  were  payable. But even  if PDL had seen this 
on its credit  check  and taken it into account, I can see that Loan 3 still would have appeared 
sustainable based on the disposable income declared by Mr Q.
I appreciate that Mr Q says he had other  debt repayments and problems. But this wasnt  
something he told PDL when he applied for the loans. And I dont think  its something  that 
PDL should  have discovered  from what I consider  to be proportionate checks. So I dont  
think PDL did anything  wrong in giving Loans 1 to 3 to Mr Q.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1761110