K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with fees that he was required to pay when redeeming a secured loan 
account, which is administered by Pepper (UK) Limited (trading as Engage  Commercial).
background
Mr W took out a secured  loan facility in 2009. The loan was later sold.  The new owner wasnt  
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA),  so it employed Engage to administer the 
loan on its behalf.
When Mr W came to redeem the loan in 2018,  he was asked to pay legal fees and a 
servicing fee. He queried the basis of those fees,  which he said werent provided for within  
the original terms of the loan. Engage said they were, so Mr W complained.
Engage maintained its stance in response  to Mr Ws complaint, citing the terms and 
conditions of the facility that said all fees and expenses incurred in connection  with the 
facility were payable  by Mr W. As Mr W remained unhappy, he referred his concerns to us.
Our investigator said that the terms and conditions  set out that Mr W had to pay all costs 
associated with the loan before it would be discharged  and this included  internal 
management, administrative and legal costs. The loan owner had calculated the amounts 
due and instructed  Engage to collect them. So she didnt think  Engage had done anything 
wrong. 
Our investigator also explained  that we couldnt look into the amounts charged,  as these had 
been calculated  by the loan owner  who wasnt regulated (and therefore not covered by our 
service).
As Mr W didnt accept  our investigators view,  his complaint was referred to me to decide.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, setting out why I didnt think  Engage  hadnt 
done anything  wrong. I said:
As our investigator explained, we cant consider the actions of the loan owner as its 
not regulated  by the FCA. Thats relevant here because its the loan owner  and not 
Engage  that calculated the amount of the fees at issue here.  So I cant  look at 
whether the amounts themselves are fair or correct.
All I can consider  is whether Engage acted fairly in requiring Mr W to pay the fees in 
question before discharging the loan.  And I think it did.
I think Mr W is right to say that the fees in question arent  provided  for within  the terms 
and conditions of the loan facility.  Ive reviewed these and I cant  see a particular 
clause that allows for this. But the loan facility was secured (by way of a legal charge 
over a number of properties). And the charge  the release of which is at issue  here  
had its own terms and conditions. Mr W signed a mortgage deed, which set out  
amongst other conditions   that:
Ref: DRN11780602This Mortgage incorporates the Yorkshire Bank  Mortgage Conditions  
2004 Legal Mortgage by Owner to Secure Own Account (the 
Conditions). You acknowledge  that you have received a copy of the 
Conditions and agree  that you will observe and perform them.
Mr W signed that deed and so these  additional  conditions are, therefore,  also 
applicable. Under those conditions, costs  were defined as:
Banking charges  and all costs and expenses (including our own internal 
management and administrative  costs and legal costs on a full indemnity  
basis) incurred by us  in exercising  our rights  calculated as agreed 
between us and the Customer, or if there  is no agreement, in 
accordance with our current practice  from time to time.
So I think the costs  at issue here are covered by these conditions.
There are a number of provisions within the mortgage deed and associated conditions  
that allow for the loan owner  and therefore,  in enforcing its rights,  Engage  to 
recover these costs  through the mortgage. They  provide for the costs to be deducted 
from the account, and the charge is in place to secure all amounts owed on the 
account (which would therefore include the costs). 
And of particular relevance here,  its also set out within the conditions that all amounts 
owing would  need to be repaid before the charge would be released   and that 
discharge itself would be at Mr Ws expense:
3   Proviso  for Redemption
Subject to paragraphs  11 and 18.4, upon the payment and discharge  of 
all sums and liabilities secured by this Mortgage we will at your expense 
discharge this Mortgage.
So I think Engage  was entitled  to require payment of the legal and servicing  fees under 
the terms and conditions of the mortgage.  It follows that I dont  think  it did anything 
wrong in declining to discharge the mortgage unless and until these sums were  paid.
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr W maintained that it was only the terms and 
conditions of the loan facility that were relevant  and that they didnt cover the costs Engage 
had collected.  He also pointed out that Id mistakenly said hed taken out the loan in question 
in 2007, when in fact it had been  2009.
Engage confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision but didnt send me any further 
comments or evidence to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no new evidence  to consider, Ive not reached a different 
conclusion to that of my provisional decision as summarised above. Ill explain why Mr Ws 
additional comments havent caused me to change my mind.
Ref: DRN11780603Mr W has referred me to the 2007  terms.  These  are what I referred to in my provisional  
decision as the terms and conditions of the loan facility. He says the costs  in question here 
werent set out in those terms. I agree with that. 
But in addition to those terms was a further set of terms and conditions that applied to the 
legal charge against Mr Ws property, which he gave as security for this (and other)  
borrowing. And its under those terms that I found  the costs  at issue to have been 
legitimately collected.  Mr Ws additional comments havent led me to think any differently 
about that. 
Mr W rightly pointed out that Id mistakenly  referred to the loan as having been taken out in 
2007. That was wrong, and it was actually 2009   so Im sorry for that. But that clerical error  
hasnt had an impact on my decision, or the reasons behind  it.
So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr W as I know he feels very strongly about this issue,  I 
dont think Engage did anything wrong  in requiring payment of the legal and servicing fees 
before it would discharge the mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1178060