K820x#14complaint
In summary  Mr G has complained that Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) mis-sold him a critical 
illness policy. In particular  he says he didnt need it.
background
Mr G met with an adviser from BOS  in 2009.  His financial  circumstances were  recorded by 
the adviser on a customer information form. This recorded he had net income  of £2,000  a 
month. His total expenditure was £1,200 a month and he had net disposable  income of £680  
a month. His cash savings were approximately  £1,700. His budget for critical illness  cover  
was recorded  as £50 a month.
The recommendation report produced by the adviser  recorded  that critical illness cover was 
recommended as Mr G didnt have savings to fall back on. And he required  a lump sum to 
make provisions for an adapted  lifestyle if he suffered a critical illness. The advice was 
limited to his budget  of £50 a month. This provided  him with a sum assured of just over 
£25,000.
As BOS didnt uphold  his complaint Mr G brought his complaint to this service using a 
representative. One of our investigators  looked  into his concerns. She didnt uphold  the 
complaint. In summary she didnt think the recommendation  was unsuitable  for Mr G.
Mr G didnt agree. His representative  explained that Mr G didnt  have a need for the cover.  
He had minimal monthly housing costs as he was living with a relative. He thought  a family 
bereavement had been used to sell him the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
As Ive summarised above Mr G and his representative think  the policy was mis-sold  
because he didnt have  a need  for it. So Ive thought very carefully about Mr Gs need for the 
policy and the overall suitability  of it for him.
I accept Mr G didnt have  any dependants or a mortgage he needed  to protect. But I dont 
agree with Mr G or his representative  that this together with him living  with his mother; meant  
he didnt have a need for critical illness cover. Ill explain why.
Insurance of the type recommended to Mr G is designed to protect an individual  for an event 
they hope wont happen. Even if I accept Mr G didnt have the level of housing costs  that 
was recorded  at the time of the sale as he lived with his mother,  he still had other outgoings.  
And I think its quite possible the arrangement with his mother  wasnt one that would 
necessarily continue indefinitely. 
Mr G didnt have any significant savings, so it seems plausible to me he might  have  a need 
for the cash lump sum a critical  illness policy could  provide. A lump  sum could be used to 
help with whatever  outgoings he had at the time of a diagnosis of a critical illness  covered by 
Ref: DRN14990282the policy. Also it could help with any adaptations he might need  to make as a result of any 
diagnosed critical  illness.  
Whilst Mr Gs mother  may have  helped him, its possible she may not have been able to help 
at a time Mr G needed financial  support, if he was diagnosed  with a critical illness. But the 
policy would provide him with the guarantee of a cash lump sum in the event he was 
diagnosed with a critical illness covered by the policy. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr G could afford the policy. The documentation from the 
time of the sale shows that he had a budget for the recommendations BOS  made.  And the 
recommendation was made within the budget identified for critical illness  cover. Im satisfied 
the policy was affordable  for Mr G. 
I accept Mr G was still affected by his family bereavement at the time the recommendation 
was made  to him. And I do understand and sympathise that he had been through a very 
difficult time. But I dont have any evidence that if BOS was aware of this, it used this 
information inappropriately to get Mr G to accept  its recommendation.  
So for the reasons Ive set out I think Mr G had a need for critical illness  cover  and dont  
think it was an unsuitable recommendation for BOS  to have made to him. I do understand 
Mr G will be disappointed with my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1499028