K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited T/A: Porsche  Financial 
Services is asking him to pay for three  tyres to be replaced after returning a car at the end of 
a hire purchase agreement. 
background
Porsche Financial supplied Mr F with a car under a hire purchase  agreement.  At the end of 
the agreement  Mr F returned the car. The car was inspected and was deemed to have 
damage in excess of fair wear and tear. Mr F was asked to pay for this. 
Mr F agreed  to pay for some of the damage, but he didnt agree to pay for the cost of 
replacing three tyres.  This was because the car had recently had an MOT and the tyres were  
found to be roadworthy. So he didnt think they needed replacing.  
Porsche Financial didnt  change its mind so Mr F complained to our service.  The investigator  
considered the inspection  findings and photos of the tyres. Taking into account guidelines 
provided by the British  Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA)  he concluded it was 
fair for Porsche Financial to ask Mr F to pay for replacement tyres. 
Mr F remained of the opinion it was unfair for him to be asked to pay the cost of replacing 
the tyres.  As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide.  I 
issued a provisional decision saying why I thought this complaint should succeed. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Porsche Financial was entitled under the terms of the hire purchase agreement to 
ask Mr F to pay for any damage in excess of fair wear and tear on the return of the 
car. An inspection  was completed. The inspector found three of the tyres had gouges 
in them.  Ive seen  photos which support this, and Mr F hasnt disputed that the 
gouges were there.
The BVRLA is a trade body that oversees the vehicle  rental  and leasing sector. It 
issues guidelines  on whats  considered to be fair wear and tear versus damage that 
wouldnt be considered  reasonable fair wear  and tear and would be chargeable. The 
aim of the guide is to highlight unacceptable  or unreasonable  levels of damage that 
would likely  impact on the resale  value of the car when its sold after being  returned 
by the consumer. Cars with higher levels of damage will generally achieve a lower  
value than a similar model without damage. 
If a damaged car achieves a lower  value then this is likely  to cause the business  to 
lose out. And it would  be unreasonable for a business to lose out because  the car 
hasnt been maintained in accordance with the agreed terms of the contract between 
the consumer  and the business. 
In this case, one of the things Ive considered  is therefore whether or not Porsche  
Financial has lost out as a result of Mr F returning  the car with the tyres in the 
condition they were in, i.e. including gouges.  
Ref: DRN10493382For tyres  the BVRLA  guide says they must meet minimum  legal requirements and 
that there  also must be no damage to sidewalls or thread . I think  the gouges count 
as damage to the sidewalls. I take the BVRLAs guidelines into account, but 
ultimately I need to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
The car passed an MOT  shortly before it was returned so I think  its unlikely the 
gouges meant the tyres needed replacing for legal or safety reasons. Cosmetically I 
dont think theyre that prominent. And Im mindful  tyres  inevitably  need replacing 
through use, and that new tyres wouldnt be expected on a used  car. So I think  its 
unlikely the gouges would cause much, if any, effect on the cars resale value. 
Porsche Financial says there  would  be no way of telling if the tyres had an impact on 
the price of the car being  sold and it believes this is not where the dispute is. I 
disagree and as Ive referred to above Porsche Financial applying a charge to Mr F is 
so that it is able to recover any loss he has caused by not taking reasonable care of 
the car. If Porsche Financial has not suffered a loss because of the condition  of the 
tyres I dont think its reasonable for Mr F to be expected to pay for the cost of the 
new tyres. 
Im also mindful that under the hire purchase agreement  Mr F could drive 15,000 
miles. He only drove about 10,000 miles.  Thats 5,000 miles less wear and tear on 
the car in general and less miles on the odometer.  No adjustment has been made for 
this.
Overall, I dont  think its fair and reasonable for Porsche Financial to ask Mr F to pay 
about £900 (with VAT) for three new tyres.  And I think  it should  remove any adverse 
information from Mr Fs credit file related to this dispute about  the tyres.
 
Mr F didnt  respond to my provisional decision. Porsche Financial replied to say that by 
returning the car Mr F removed himself from the possible risk/reward associated with the 
sale of the car, so in its view the mileage and sale price of the car are irrelevant.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the opinion - for the reasons set out in my provisional decision - that if Porsche 
Financial has not suffered  a loss because of the condition of the tyres, I dont think its 
reasonable for Mr F to be expected to pay for the cost of the new tyres. And I havent seen 
anything to persuade me the condition  of the tyres has caused  Porsche Financial to lose out. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) Limited T/A: 
Porsche Financial Services  to not charge Mr F for the cost of replacing the three tyres, and 
to remove any adverse information from Mr Fs credit  file related to this dispute about the 
tyres. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Ref: DRN10493383James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1049338