K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that TSB Bank plc mis-sold a loan to her in 2013 and that it was 
unaffordable. 
background
In 2013 Mrs H applied  for a personal  loan to consolidate  debts she held elsewhere and 
reduce her monthly outgoings. During  the application process TSB made some mistakes 
and used some benefit income it shouldnt have when assessing  how affordable the loan 
was. TSB also included Mr Hs income in its affordability assessment. The loan was 
approved and TSB paid £10,000  into Mrs Hs account. Mrs H repaid various creditors  over 
the following  weeks. 
Mrs H later had trouble maintaining the payments after Mr H wasnt  able to continue  working.  
The loan account defaulted and Mrs H has subsequently been making payments of £1 a 
month. 
In 2018 Mrs H complained but TSB didnt  agree  the loan had been  mis-sold. One of our 
investigators went on to consider what had happened and agreed  that TSB had made some 
mistakes when processing Mrs Hs loan application but didnt  agree  that it was unaffordable. 
Mrs H didnt accept the investigators view and asked to appeal her case. As a result,  its 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin  by saying that all parties agree TSB made mistakes when it looked at 
Mrs Hs income  during her loan application.  The income figure  included  some benefits TSB 
says it shouldnt have  used when looking at a loan application. The income figure TSB used 
was too high. Mrs H has said she feels this means the loan was mis-sold. 
I understand Mrs Hs point and I agree the way her loan was processed was wrong.  But our 
role is to look at whether  an error  by a business  has led to a financial loss for the customer. 
In this case, I need to consider whether the errors TSB made when looking at Mrs Hs 
application led to it being incorrectly approved or whether  it wouldve been  approved  in any 
case. So whilst I take Mrs Hs point  and agree there  were mistakes, I cant  uphold the 
complaint if I think TSB wouldve approved the loan if itd used the right figures. 
So, Ive looked  carefully at what shouldve  happened  during  Mrs Hs loan application. TSB 
has provided details  of its lending criteria from the time and it shows that Carers Allowance 
and Child  Benefit were  both sources  of income  it would consider as part of a loan 
application. TSB also took Mr Hs income  into consideration during the application. Mrs H 
says she doesnt  think Mr Hs income shouldve been considered.  But TSB is free to decide 
what lending  criteria to use when looking at loan applications and has confirmed it will take a 
partners income into account  if its been  paid into a joint account. I havent found  TSBs 
made an error by including Mr Hs income  in its affordability checks. 
Ref: DRN17702052TSB recorded Mr Hs income as £1,559  a month  which  is in line with what Ive seen  on the 
bank statements provided. Mrs H received £58.45 a week  in Carers Allowance and £60.50 
in Child  Benefit. But in her response  to the investigator Mrs H said her Child Benefit reduced 
during the planned loan term because of the ages of her children. I asked Mrs H to tell us 
what her Child Benefit reduced  to during the planned loan term and shes  said it came  down 
to £34.40 a week.
That means Mrs H was receiving around  £402  a month in Carers Allowance and Child 
Benefit, income that TSBs lending criteria  says it could  take into account in addition  to 
£1,559 from Mr H. TSB says it used  the £404  a month rent figure provided by Mrs H and 
applied an outgoings  amount of £1,040.  The outgoings figure of £1,040 a month comes from 
TSBs Household Expenditure Threshold, a figure it uses  to assess the outgoings when 
looking at loan applications. Added to the monthly  loan payment of £289.25  that meant TSB 
assessed Mrs Hs household expenditure to be around £1,733 against a household  income  
of around £1,961. On the face of it, theres around  £225 a month left which indicates TSB 
would most  likely have  gone ahead even  if itd used the right benefits and income when 
looking at Mrs Hs loan application.  
TSB says Mrs H took the loan out to consolidate  other debts and reduce her monthly 
payments. It says that Mrs Hs borrowing costs  reduced from about  £450 a month before she 
took out the loan to £289.25. From what Ive seen, it does appear Mrs H used  the loan funds 
to repay  other debts  and I think she most likely  reduced her outgoings as a result. I think 
thats an important  point as it does appear  Mrs H was in a better position in terms of her 
monthly outgoings as a result of taking out this loan. 
Mrs H maintained her payments until November 2013 but has explained  that the household 
income reduced when  Mr H wasnt able to continue working. I appreciate that led to arrears 
and ultimately the loan defaulted. But it appears that happened  because of a change in the 
level of household income, not because of the way TSB assessed Mrs Hs loan application. 
As the loan defaulted I think its fair that TSB reported that to the credit  reference agencies. 
As Ive said above,  whilst I agree there were mistakes by TSB when completing  Mrs Hs loan 
application that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold  the complaint. To uphold the 
complaint Id need to be satisfied that TSB wouldve declined Mrs Hs loan application in 
2013 if itd used the correct income  figures. But from what  Ive seen I think TSB wouldve still 
agreed to lend even if it hadnt made  any mistakes  with Mrs Hs loan application. As I dont 
think TSBs mistakes affected  the outcome of Mrs Hs loan application and I think its dealt 
with her complaint  fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1770205