K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained PrePay Technologies Limited, trading as PrePay  Solutions,  wont 
refund him for transactions he didnt make  in September  2017.
 
background
Mr H has held a multi-currency travel card issued by PrePay Solutions for a number of 
years. He used it to spend euros when travelling overseas. He last used this to pay for a 
hotel bill in August 2017.
In March 2018 PrePay Solutions contacted Mr H to say his card was expiring. He got a new 
card. He didnt use this throughout  2018 but kept it securely at home with other  cards. In 
2019 when he went to check on the balance   expecting  to use the card later that year  he 
found there was almost  no money on it. This was despite the card having  a balance of €590 
in 2017 after Mr H had last used it.
Mr H complained to PrePay  Solutions. They  told him hed contacted them  more than 
13 months after the disputed transactions. This was therefore outside of the timescale  set 
out in their terms and conditions. Mr H brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.
After getting information about the seven disputed  transactions  that took place overseas in 
September 2017, our investigator  explained to PrePay Solutions why she didnt think  it was 
fair or reasonable  for them to rely on their terms and conditions  to refuse Mr Hs claim.  She 
also thought the evidence  showed  Mr H hadnt  authorised or consented to these 
transactions. She asked PrePay  Solutions to refund Mr H along with 8% interest.
PrePay Solutions continued  to believe theyd followed the Payment Services Regulations in 
rejecting Mr Hs claim as he brought this to them  more than 13 months after the disputed 
transactions.
They asked an ombudsman to consider  Mr Hs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly I should explain that whilst  I take account of the law  in this case the 
Payment Services Regulations  Im also required by statute to make my decision based on 
what is considered  to be fair and reasonable.
Ill tackle this aspect  first.
Theres no dispute Mr H didnt raise  any dispute until January  2019. The last time hed used 
his card was in August 2017. Apart  from getting a replacement  card in March  2018, Mr H 
had had no reason to use the card.
The card Mr H had is a multi-currency  travel  card issued by PrePay Solutions. Its expected 
that someone would  make occasional rather than constant use of that type of card. Mr H had 
had no reason to use the card from August 2017  onwards. As he knew there was money 
Ref: DRN10236562remaining on the card he also felt he had no reason to check  the balance until he knew he 
was more likely to use it. Thats what he did in January 2019.  And when he realised money  
hed expected to see there wasnt, he immediately contacted PrePay  Solutions  to raise his 
concern.
I appreciate the disputed  transactions  on 26 and 27 September  2017   had taken place 
more than 13 months before Mr H raised his dispute.  But this isnt an account  where  there is 
regular use, nor did PrePay Solutions  ever tell Mr H what his current balance  was. If theyd 
conveyed this information in March 2018, for example, and Mr H had waited more than 
13 months to report the issue  then I may have come  to a different view.  However  after 
considering the prompt action  Mr H took, the use he made of his card and the terms and 
conditions relating to his account, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Mr H to 
PrePay Solutions terms and conditions.
As I think  its fair that PrePay  Solutions  consider Mr Hs dispute in full, Ive also considered 
whether he authorised these transactions. To help me make this decision,  Ive reviewed the 
evidence of the disputed transactions that PrePay Solutions has provided along with what  
Mr H has told us.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN  but nothing 
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.  
To clarify, provisions within the PSRs about gross negligence  require the payment service 
provider (PrePay Solutions  in this case)  to show the payment  service  user (Mr H in this 
case) has been grossly negligent in the way he has looked after the security  details for his 
card. PrePay Solutions has provided no evidence on this aspect.  
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were covered in 
our investigators view of 17 January 2020. I dont intend to repeat everything  that was said 
there. Except to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint thoroughly  and the evidence  
PrePay Solutions has provided.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
All the disputed transactions took place on 26 and 27 September  2017.  There were 
seven transactions  withdrawing cash overseas.
Ive seen evidence  from Mr Hs employment,  his passport and bank statement. All of 
this confirms he wasnt out of the country  at this time.
There is no evidence the genuine card and PIN were used to authenticate the 
disputed transactions.  
There were  also a number of attempted withdrawals which were declined  as there 
were insufficient funds.
PrePay Solutions has suggested the fraud occurred  a month after Mr H last used his 
card. They dont think that matches what theyd expect to see when we review  
fraudulent behaviour.  I dont agree.
In fact I think its most likely a card using Mr Hs card details was used to make these 
transactions. All that a fraudster  would have needed was access to information  about 
Ref: DRN10236563the card rather than the actual card. A compromise  of those details could have  taken 
place sometime after Mr H used his card.
Having considered all the evidence, I dont  believe there is anything  to show  Mr H authorised 
these transactions.  Like our investigator  I will be asking  PrePay  Solutions  to refund €589.57 
to Mr H for the disputed  transactions. They  will also need to add 8% simple  interest  a year 
from the date of the transactions until the date of settlement.
Our investigator mentioned PrePay  Solutions could charge Mr H £35 in line with their terms 
and conditions, which state:
In the event that you notify us in accordance with this Agreement  that your Card  has been 
lost or stolen  you will be liable for a maximum of £35 of any loss that takes place prior to you 
contacting Customer  Services.
However I dont think these terms and conditions apply to Mr H. He never  lost or had his 
card stolen so I dont believe he is subject to this requirement.
Mr H has raised  a number of issues around the security of PrePay  Solutions  systems. He 
believes we should  also be considering  those  aspects. But actually thats  not my role as an 
ombudsman. I review  the specific issues around  Mr Hs complaint rather  than how PrePay 
Solutions provide  secure payment systems.  Rather thats an issue  for the regulator.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  PrePay Technologies Limited, 
trading as PrePay Solutions,  to:
Refund €589.57 to Mr H; and
Add 8% simple interest to that from the date of the disputed transactions  to the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1023656