K822xcomplaint
Mr Rs complaint against Capquest Debt Recovery  Limited (Capquest)  is that it recorded  
incorrect information on his credit file, and delayed  in having it removed.
background 
In January 2019 Mr R was made  aware of late payment markers recorded  incorrectly on his 
credit file.
When he complained  to Capquest, it took what he felt was an unreasonable amount of time 
to have them removed.  He said this caused him worry  and inconvenience,  and that he lost 
out on mortgage offers. 
He complained to Capquest, and it acknowledged its part in recording the wrong information. 
It offered  him £25 compensation and said it was seeking removal of the markers from his 
credit file in February  2019. 
When this wasnt done, Mr R brought  his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator  looked  into matters and agreed that Capquest had made a mistake,  and 
should make  redress  to Mr R. She directed that it remove the markers without any further 
delay, and pay £300 in compensation. 
Mr R agreed, but Capquest didnt. It didnt feel the increased compensation was fair. 
Mr R then made our service aware  that as of April 2019, his credit record still hadnt been 
corrected. It took until late May 2019 for this to be done. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaints come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It should be noted that there is no dispute that Capquest made a mistake  and was willing to 
put it right. I understand that Mr Rs credit file was eventually corrected in May 2019, so this 
decision is purely about the level of compensation I think it should pay him.
Capquest offered £25, and our Investigator recommended  £300. My view on Capquests  
original offer is that its much too low and doesnt  take into account at all either  the effect of 
the incorrect credit file information, or the time and worry to Mr R of bringing his complaint 
this far. 
I acknowledge that not all of the delay is the responsibility of Capquest, but it ultimately 
caused the problems in the first place.  £300 is in the middle of our moderate  bracket  of 
awards, and I think is proportionate  to what Mr Rs experienced, and to what Ive seen 
awarded in broadly similar cases. 
This sum doesnt  take into account specifically the loss of mortgage offers,  as these are 
speculative in any event  and havent  been  proved. But overall I think  it covers  all of the 
distress and inconvenience Mr Rs suffered.
Ref: DRN14995212I think its fair and sufficient, along  with the removal of the incorrect  credit file information, to 
resolve matters.
I appreciate that Capquest disagrees, and Id like to emphasise that the £300  isnt a penalty.  
Its a compensatory  award to Mr R for what hes been through,  which is linked to Capquests  
original and admitted  actions/inactions. 
I hope Ive made it clear  why I think this decision is fair to both parties.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint,  and to resolve  matters  Im asking 
Capquest Debt Recovery Limited to pay £300  to Mr R in compensation. I understand that the 
credit file information has now been  corrected,  but in the event that this proves not to be the 
case, I also ask that this be done  without any further  delay. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1499521