K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed that Allianz Insurance Plc, as the insurer, should take responsibility for this 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to Allianz as the seller in my decision.  Mrs T says 
Allianz mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs T took out with a store card in December 1992.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain my reasoning  below.
When selling  the PPI to Mrs T, Allianz shouldve taken reasonable steps to make  it clear the 
policy was optional. It also shouldve  got Mrs Ts agreement to take it out. Mrs T took out the 
PPI in store and says it wasnt made  clear  it was optional. I dont know  what was discussed 
in store,  and where I have limited  information about  a sale,  I have to decide  what  I think is 
more likely based on the information  and evidence I have  seen.
Allianz has provided a copy  of the application form that was completed  at the time. On this 
there is a separate section about  PPI and there is a statement explaining the cover.  A tick 
has been placed in the box next to the statement We strongly  recommend you take this 
cover by ticking the box. If Mrs T didnt want the cover she couldve left this section blank.  
Although I dont know what was discussed at the time, I wouldve expected Mrs T to read 
over the form and raise  any questions  she had at the time before signing it.
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mrs T knew  at the time
that the PPI was optional and that she decided to take it. But I can understand why she 
might not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
Allianz didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs T so it didnt need to check  that it was suitable for 
her given her circumstances at the time. But it did need to ensure that she was given enough
information to decide whether she wanted to take it. Although  I dont know  what  was said to
her then, I think  its likely  that the information  she received about the PPI could  have been
better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed  her mind about
taking the cover and Ill explain why.
Mrs T appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main
exclusions or limitations. 
Mrs T says the PPI was of no use to her because  she had sufficient employee sick pay at 
the time.  However,  for 64p per £100  of the outstanding monthly  balance  the PPI wouldve 
paid out up to 15% of Mrs Ts outstanding monthly balance, until she returned  to work or the 
outstanding balance had been  paid off. And she wouldve received the same benefit  if she 
was made  redundant. The policy wouldve paid out in addition  to her sick pay or redundancy 
Ref: DRN12741312pay and lasted longer. So I think she would have  valued the extra  security  which  the policy  
gave her if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs T. And as the policys  premiums
were paid monthly, she could have  cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
Ive thought about everything Mrs T has said, but this hasnt changed my mind about not
upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Allianz Insurance  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1274131