K820x#14complaint
Mrs B (through her partner Mr N) complains that Amtrust  International Underwriters DAC is 
responsible for mishandling her claim under  a home  emergency insurance policy.
background
Mrs B had an annual policy that covered her central heating boiler. The annual renewal date 
was 11 December. From that date in 2017 the policy cost included  £63.00 for an annual  
service. It was a term of the policy that Mrs B should  have the annual  service through  
Amtrust. So Im satisfied that the service  was ancillary to the insurance  policy.
The policy also covered  repairs  subject to the policy terms. In particular there was an 
exclusion of repairs or replacement of a heat exchanger more than seven years old. And 
there was a claims limit of £1,000.00. There was an exclusion where the boiler  was beyond 
economic repair (BER). 
Amtrust was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Amtrust or the 
insurer I include its administrator, contractors, engineers and any others  for whose actions I 
hold Amtrust  responsible.
In March 2018, Amtrust  said Mrs Bs boiler was BER because it needed a new heat 
exchanger, pressure release valve, fan, diverter valve and expansion vessel.  Mr N 
complained that the insurer hadnt serviced  the boiler properly in previous years  and was 
unfairly saying it was BER. He suggested  that he and Mrs B would pay to get the heat 
exchanger replaced  and Amtrust should then do the other repairs.
In its final response letter  on 15 May 2018, Amtrust  advised Mrs B against  paying for a new 
heat exchanger which it said would cost about £670.00 excluding installation.  But Amtrust 
said as follows:
If Mrs B paid for a new heat exchanger to be supplied  and fitted to the 
satisfaction of the boiler manufacturer, Amtrust would  consider carrying out 
other repairs to the boiler. 
If it cancelled the policy  at the end of May 2018  and didnt do the next annual  
service, it would  refund  the cost of £63.00.
In a follow-up letter  on 24 May 2018,  Amtrust  said that it would only authorise  further  repairs 
if the new heat exchanger  was supplied and fitted to the satisfaction  of the boiler  
manufacturer.
Mrs B and Mr N didnt  accept Amtrusts  offer. He brought her complaint to us in October 
2018. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think the 
engineers shouldve done more  to identify problems and carry out repairs during the annual 
services. He thought  Amtrusts offer was reasonable.  
On behalf of Mrs B, Mr N disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He says,  in summary, 
that:
Ref: DRN12907472The boiler services shouldve followed the manufacturers guidance.
The policy expired  in December 2018  and Mrs B didnt renew it.
Amtrust agreed with the investigators  opinion. But it says, in summary,  that:
On 15 October 2018 it wrote to Mrs B inviting  her to ring to arrange the annual 
service visit. She didnt respond. No annual service  was completed in the policy year 
that ended  on 10 December 2018  when  the policy  lapsed.
In line with the response to the complaint the policyholder is entitled to a refund of 
what she paid in the policy year (£63.00) for the annual service  visit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the insurers records, I find that Mrs Bs boiler  had been  installed  in December 2007. 
The policy didnt cover repairs if the boiler  was BER, that is if any of the following 
alternatives applied:
The point at w/which  parts  are no longer available to repair Your boiler or an 
Authorised Contractor estimates that:
 Your boiler has reached the end of its serviceable  life (based on age and condition)  
and/or
 the cost to repair Your boiler  exceeds its current or replacement value and/or
 the cost to repair Your boiler  exceeds the claim limit
The claims limit was £1,000.00 including VAT. 
Some other policies  provide a payment (typically £250.00) if a boiler is BER. But Mrs Bs 
policy didnt cover such a payment.
And the policy didnt  cover any cash payment  in lieu of repairs to the boiler.
Ive seen the reports from the annual services in 2016 and 2017. They  show  that the 
engineers were satisfied  the boiler  was working  correctly.
I have no reason to doubt the statement of Mr N that he and Mrs B told the engineers that 
the boiler fan was noisy. But Mrs B couldve contacted the insurer at any time to look at the 
fan. As theres no evidence that she did, I dont  find that Amtrust  had missed  a fan problem 
on the annual  services.
Mrs B had problems with the boiler  in March  2018.  But that isnt enough to persuade me that 
there was anything wrong with the services  in previous years. And Mr N hasnt shown us the 
manufacturers guidance or shown any examples of failure to follow such guidance.
Even if Amtrust  failed  to follow such guidance, theres no technical evidence  that such  failure 
caused the need for any of the list of necessary replacement parts.  
Ref: DRN12907473Theres no evidence that anyone had replaced  the heat exchanger since 2007.  As the policy  
didnt cover repair or replacement of a heat exchanger more than seven years old, it didnt  
cover the heat exchanger in Mrs Bs boiler.  Mr N recognised that the policy wouldnt cover a 
replacement heat exchanger. And I can see his thinking that Amtrust shouldve  disregarded  
the cost of that  which it indicated was £670.00.
Instead Amtrusts engineer included it in his calculation  that the cost of all the necessary 
parts to repair to the boiler  would  be £1,371.63.  
But the policy wording  quoted above  includes the words the cost to repair  Your  boiler. And 
Im satisfied that the normal  meaning of those  words includes  the cost of the heat exchanger  
even though it wasnt covered by the policy. 
In any event the estimated cost of £1,371.63 didnt include  labour to remove  the boiler, fit the 
parts and put the boiler back.
So Im satisfied that the cost to repair the boiler  exceeded the claims limit of £1,000.00. I 
keep in mind the age of the boiler and the list of necessary replacement  parts.  So I do not 
find it unfair that Amtrust said that the boiler was BER.
Further, Amtrust  tried to deal with Mr Ns suggestion about replacing  the heat exchanger. I 
dont find it unfair or unreasonable that it made it clear  that if Mrs B insisted on paying  for a 
replacement heat exchanger, Amtrust would need to see evidence  of the new one and its 
professional installation before it would do any other repairs 
Mrs B didnt pursue  that. I think that at some stage she got a new boiler installed but didnt 
tell Amtrust. 
The policy didnt provide for cash  in lieu of repairs. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
order Amtrust  to pay Mrs B what it wouldve paid (hypothetically)  for other repairs if she had 
paid for a new heat exchanger for the old boiler.
Mrs B had a new boiler. And I think thats why she didnt get Amtrust to do an annual  service 
in 2018 and didnt renew the policy from December 2018.
In response to the investigators opinion, Amtrust confirmed its offer to refund £63.00 for the 
service it didnt do in 2018.  At the investigators  request, Amtrust sent Mrs B a letter  and 
cheque in mid-January  2019.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to order Amtrust to make  any further payment to 
Mrs B or to do anything  further in response  to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Amtrust International Underwriters DAC  to do anything further  in response to Mrs Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B (or Mr N on 
her behalf)  to accept  or reject my decision before 7 June 2019.
Ref: DRN12907474Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1290747