K820x#14complaint
Mr D says HFC Bank Limited (HFC) mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr D bought the policy in 1994 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. He applied  for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post. 
At the time,  Mr D was employed  in training  and entitled to some  sick pay, estimated to be 
around for three months. I understand  Mr D to have been in good  health at the point of sale.  
The PPI policy Mr D bought provided cover for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 5% of his credit card balance in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost 49p per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. HFC told us that the credit  card account closed in 2003.
Mr Ds representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all very carefully.  In 
summary, Mr Ds representative says:
The PPI policy couldnt  be claimed on once he reached 65 years of age;
HFC failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr D wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ds representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HFC should have told 
Mr D about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HFC should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr D and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr D received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr D disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN18776932my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HFC, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN18776933While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HFC at the time. So Im satisfied  I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ds 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority.
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
HFC was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ds complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If HFC gave  advice, whether it advised Mr D with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether HFC gave Mr D sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr D, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr D suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr D and HFC, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr D know  he had a choice?
Ref: DRN18776934HFC had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. As this was a postal sale,  I think  
its reasonable for me to say that Mr D would have  filled out the application himself and in his 
own time, without any intervention from HFC. We no longer have access to the original  sales 
material but as the sale was in 1994, that isnt unusual; businesses  arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. Nevertheless, HFC has sent us a example copy of the type of 
application form that was used at around  that time.  I note the form shows  what appears, in 
my view, to be an obvious choice  between either  having  or not having   PPI, with the new 
credit card account. I think Mr D would have ticked the yes box for the PPI to be added.
I also think that the PPI showed up on his monthly credit  card statements. Therefore, if Mr D 
had, for example,  made  a mistake at the point where hed filled out the form, hed have been 
able see the PPI costs  being incurred and then questioned these with the business. Ive got 
no evidence this happened. So, taking everything  into account, I think its much more likely  
that Mr D knew the policy  was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did HFC provide advice?
Again, as a postal  sale, this wasnt an advised one. This means  HFC didnt have to check  if 
the PPI was suitable for Mr D. Instead, it had to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely 
information to enable Mr D to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
the information
HFC has provided us with an example of Mr Ds application form indicating that PPI had 
probably been selected. It has also referred  us to information it says he wouldve received 
including the policy terms and conditions, which I accept on a balance  of probabilities, 
applied to policies  like Mr Ds. Looking at everything  weve got, I dont think  its very likely 
HFC gave all the information he fairly and reasonably needed to make  an informed decision 
about whether  or not to take out the policy. The application form didnt give Mr D much 
information about the PPI but I think its unlikely Mr D would have agreed to take it out 
without at least having a broad understanding of the cover provided   i.e. accident,  sickness 
and unemployment  cover. And I think its unlikely Mr D would have thought  it was free.
But it was HFCs responsibility to draw  to his attention the important information  i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
Im not persuaded HFC did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mr D, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that HFC adequately drew to 
his attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
Im not persuaded HFC did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think that HFC 
adequately drew to his attention to the significant limitations and exclusions. So I dont think 
it gave Mr D sufficient, appropriate and timely  information  to enable him to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing his attention to and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN18776935I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ds representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ds. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ds representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr D about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ds representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr D has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HFC ought to have done  either.
what effect did HFCs  shortcomings have  on Mr D? To what extent  did Mr D suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HFC didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr D. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr D suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr D would have still 
taken out the policy,  had HFC done things  properly. 
Mr D says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. As this was a non-advised sale,  Mr D had 
to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy against the benefits offered and the 
potential consequences  if he didnt insure against the risk of being unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr D chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr D thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr D has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr D ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover 5% of his outstanding balance  this was 
most likely set out on attached application  documents he had. But, I do accept that HFC 
probably didnt  make clear the on-going cost information. So, while Mr D didnt know some 
things, the ultimate  position in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what he 
Ref: DRN18776936would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take out the 
policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr D thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded certain claims relating  to medical conditions  or symptoms that 
Mr D knew about  or ought to have known about 12 months  before  the start date of 
the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr D 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr D be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr D pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr D from taking out the policy. 
However, the evidence  about Mr Ds circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. The policy offered up to 12 months of payments 
towards Mr Ds outstanding balance and in his circumstances,  I think he would have found 
this to be of use. Ive been told that Mr D did subsequently make a successful claim on the 
PPI policy, in 1999. 
Although his representative implies  the policy wouldnt  have been  any use after Mr D 
reached 65, this was still over 20 years off at the point of sale  so I consider this allegation 
to be irrelevant in Mr Ds situation. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest he would 
have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr D didnt have  any pre-existing 
medical conditions  as defined by the policy and he was in permanent employment. I 
therefore think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
If Mr D had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  be qualified 
for, it might have played into his thinking about what he would have done. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mr D was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr D would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting. In those circumstances too, I consider it more likely than not 
that he would have taken out the policy in any event.   
Ref: DRN18776937Mr Ds representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr D would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr D 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr D believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr D in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HFC should pay Mr D compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr D thinks HFC misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HFCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why HFC failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HFC gave Mr D, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ds representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find HFC negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr D and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that HFC had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
Ref: DRN18776938the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr D in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr D.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1877693