K820x#14complaint
Mrs N says HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs N bought the policy in 2007 at the same  time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ns case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs N says she cant remember how the policy was sold to her. HSBC  says the policy  was 
sold during a meeting. Without any conflicting  information, Ive looked at the sale as if it 
happened during a meeting.
Mrs N says she didnt know she had the PPI. HSBC has said she wouldve been  made  
aware it was optional and it wouldnt have been  added unless shed agreed to it. Its 
understandable, given  how long its been  since the sale, that there arent  many  details 
available about  what happened.  But this means  I dont know what was said about the PPI, if 
anything. And I dont  have any actual documents from the sale either.
So Ive looked  at everything we know about how HSBC normally sold PPI around that time. 
And based on what we know about such sales, consumers were usually asked to choose 
whether or not they wanted PPI. So I think its more likely that Mrs N was given a choice and 
she chose to buy the policy, even if she doesnt remember  than now, many years  later.
Mrs N cant remember  if HSBC recommended the policy to her. HSBC says it did 
recommend the PPI. But I dont think it matters whether HSBC advised Mrs N to take the 
policy out not because even if it did - based on what I know  about  her circumstances at the 
time - I think the policy was right for Mrs N. I say this because:
Based  on what Ive seen, Mrs N was eligible for the policy.  
Mrs N says she cant remember if she had any sick pay benefits from her employer.  
The policy is most likely to have  covered  10% of the monthly balance  on Mrs Ns 
card if she was unable  to work due to sickness, an accident  or became unemployed. 
And it couldve paid out for a maximum of 12 months.  
Looking at Mrs Ns circumstances, I dont  think there was anything that wouldve 
made it difficult for her to make a claim. For example, she didnt  have any existing 
health concerns  or unusual working  patterns.
Ref: DRN11009812Nothing Mrs N has told me suggests  she couldnt afford to make  the monthly 
payments. 
HSBC shouldve taken  reasonable  steps  to ensure Mrs N was given clear enough 
information to make a choice about  whether to take the policy or not. 
Taking into account what we know, its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs N about the 
PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But I dont think better  information  wouldve 
stopped her from buying the PPI. I say this for the same reasons I think  the policy  was right 
for her. 
So HSBC  doesnt  have to pay back all the cost of the policy. But HSBC has paid back some  
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs N because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs N about that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mrs N, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs N has said - including  what shes  said about her 
husbands PPI policy being refunded. But Ive only looked at the individual circumstances of 
this complaint and for the reasons Ive explained  above, I dont agree the PPI was mis-sold. 
So this point  doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs N.
But HSBC  Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs N any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1100981