K822xComplaint
Mr T has complained about a life protection and serious illness  policy he was sold by CMAL  
Limited (CMAL). Having recently  found  out that his personal details were incorrectly 
recorded by the adviser  at the time of the sale, he now cant  afford  the new higher  premium.
Background
In 2014 Mr T, along with his wife, applied for an increase  in their mortgage borrowing. At the 
same time Mr T applied  to take out a life cover policy to cover the total amount of borrowing 
including the increase  applied for.
At this point in time Mr T already had a life and critical illness protection  policy in place 
(Policy A). This provided cover for just over £83,000  and at the point  of sale had nineteen 
years left to run. The monthly premium  was £35.92. This policy was cancelled  when the new 
protection policy was put in place.
The new policy  provided life and serious illness protection at the level of £105,000 over a 
twenty-five-year period.  The premium was £36 per month, (Policy B).
While the application  for the further  borrowing didnt go ahead Mr T decided to continue  with 
the new policy.
In 2019 Mr T and his wife happened to check the policy details and found  that Mr Ts date of 
birth had been incorrectly recorded  as being  ten years younger. This obviously had an effect 
on the premiums that were originally calculated for Policy B.
After investigating  the issue CMAL accepted the adviser had made  a mistake in 2014. It did 
explain that it felt Mr T also had a shared responsibility to ensure the details were correct but 
nevertheless it was prepared to do what it could  to resolve the situation.
CMAL calculated that the correct premium Mr T should have been paying for Policy  B had 
the correct date of birth details been recorded. This came out at £125 per month rather  than 
the £36 per month Mr T had been paying.  However, Mr T explained  that this was 
unaffordable and had he been correctly informed  in 2014 he wouldnt have taken the new
policy and would have  continued with the old one, Policy A.
CMAL therefore  approached the provider of Policy  A to ask it to reinstate the old policy.  But 
as this provider  had been closed to new business for some years  this wasnt possible to do.
CMAL then tried to find a policy which would meet Mr Ts current requirements  based on his 
current circumstances. However, because of recent health issues Mr T wasnt able to get the 
cover he needed  very easily.
Therefore in lieu of any other option CMAL  stated that it was prepared  to pay the difference 
in premiums whilst it investigated the issue but apart  from providing  new quotes there was 
nothing further  it could do and it was up to Mr T to decide how best to maintain his life 
protection going forward.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt CMAL  had done all it could 
to resolve the situation having  accepted its adviser  had made  a mistake.  But given the 
difficulties of the situation and how to fix it he was satisfied he agreed  that CMAL  had 
Ref: DRN19582042provided all options  that were  available for Mr T to continue  with some sort of life protection.
Mr T didnt  agree with the assessment. He reiterated that had he been  told about the level of 
the new policy being as high as it is now the correct details have been recorded,  he would 
have kept his old policy, Policy A in place and made  no changes.
The investigator considered what Mr T said but wasnt persuaded to change  his initial 
outcome.
I issued my provisional findings in March 2020. An extract is set out below and forms part of 
this decision:
I agree  with Mr T that the adviser from CMAL was the professional  and of course he was 
entitled to trust him with the professional knowledge  to advise him suitably. However, this 
only applies  to the advice to take out the policy. The suitability of the advice isnt being  
questioned in this complaint and if the premium of the Policy B was correct, I see no problem 
with Mr T taking  it  it provided  a lot more benefits  than Policy A with what  was initially  
thought to be only £1 extra a month.
But this complaint is focused  on the accuracy of information. I dont doubt that Mr T gave the 
correct information   there is no reason  why he would get his date of birth wrong.  So, I think 
it is clear the information was recorded incorrectly by the adviser  and CMAL  has accepted 
this. But there is merit in CMALs argument  that Mr T should have checked all the details 
when he was sent the relevant paperwork.  I know the insurance company providing the 
policy would have sent the policy details  to Mr T to check. This is something  everyone does 
when taking out any type of insurance;  and Mr T has accepted he was sent the relevant 
documentation to check. So it is reasonable that he should have checked  all the details.
I know anyone would  expect an adviser to not make a mistake, but mistakes do happen 
which is why the client, Mr T in this case, is used effectively as the last line of checking the 
information is accurate.  Ultimately only Mr T was in the position to check  and ensure all his 
personal details  were correct  it isnt reasonable that the adviser and insurance company 
would notice an incorrect date of birth.
Therefore because of this I agree  that the responsibility of this mistake can be attributed  half 
and half to both CMAL and Mr T  CMAL shouldnt have recorded  the information  incorrectly 
and Mr T shouldnt  have skimmed  over his personal  details  when he was asked to check  
everything was correct.
I do believe that CMAL  made a mistake and customers  should  be able to rely on businesses  
to record the correct information.  But I am also bound to be fair and reasonable to both 
parties when making my findings.
I dont doubt that if the correct quote for Policy  B had been provided in 2014 Mr T wouldnt 
have taken it out. But he cant be left without life and serious illness  cover  as this is clearly  
important to him, but he really is in a position now where there is little else he can do but 
keep Policy B. And this does need  to be recognised by CMAL.
Mr T would have been paying for a policy in any event.  So its only right he continues  to pay 
what he would have  been paying.  But to recognise  the responsibility that was on him to 
check his details, Mr T must pay half of the difference in cost between the two policies and 
CMAL must make  up the rest.
Ref: DRN19582043CMAL accepted my provisional findings  and agreed  to redress Mr T in line with what I set 
out on the provisional decision.
Mr T didnt  agree with my provisional findings and provided the following comments:
He didnt agree he was partly responsible for the mistake that was made  in the 
processing of this life insurance policy. He felt CMAL was employed to give advice 
and to process the application in full and its responsibility didnt end at the advice 
portion only. 
He said he was never advised to check the policy over at any point and if he was, he 
doesnt think the error wouldnt have  been picked up. He says he was only sent one 
document at the time of the application  on 29th January 2014 which was a 
confirmation of the policy.
He feels the mistake was wholly on the part of CMAL. He gave  CMAL  the correct 
information at the time of the quotation.  Hes said when he received  the confirmation  
documentation at the end of the process he filed it away and was not told or advised  
by anyone at CMAL to check over any documentation  and did not think  it necessary 
at the time. 
CMAL processed the entire application from start to finish and in doing so it accepted  
the responsibility of making sure that this was done accurately. It was not his 
responsibility to check  that this was done correctly. 
If he has to pay half of the difference in the cost this will put him in a worse  financial 
position than he would  have been  otherwise.  This may also be unaordable  in the 
long term which could  force him at some point to have to cancel the policy  and be left 
without adequate cover. He feels he is being  asked  to pay more  than double  the cost 
because he did not know to check that they did the job that they were  paid to do. He 
feels it was CMAL  that made the mistake and it should be held fully accountable.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, despite  the comments  
Mr T has made  I am not persuaded to divert  from my provisional findings.
I appreciate how strongly Mr T feels  about not being responsible at all for the mistake that 
occurred, however I cant agree and as I already stated in my provisional findings, I need  to 
be objective and be fair and reasonable  to all parties.
I know Mr T gave the correct information to CMAL and it did have a duty to record all the 
information correctly  and process it accordingly  and Mr T should have been able to rely on 
this. However, administrative/clerical  mistakes can happen, and this is why it is the normal  
practice for policy holders to check their personal details at the very least, to confirm  all 
details are correct. In my view Mr T was the last line in checking the policy  details and this 
was something he should  have done  without having  to be told to do so. Any reasonable 
person would have checked such details so I cant accept his argument.
Mr T is correct when  he says CMAL was responsible for ensuring the policy was suitable, 
but in my view it did this. It gave Mr T all the technical information  and advice  it had to  that 
isnt in question. But if the personal details of a policyholder are wrong its unlikely any 
business would identify this because the only person who knows their personal details is the 
policyholder himself.
Ref: DRN19582044While I appreciate the cost of the policy is higher than Mr T was paying  for Policy A and may 
become unaffordable for him in the future, I dont  think there is anything further than can be 
done. This Service cant always perfectly  fix an error but we can put a consumer as close  
as possible into the position they would have been  in had errors not occurred. 
For the reasons  already covered in this and my provisional findings it would in my view be 
unconscionable for me to say the error that occurred was fully the responsibility of CMAL.
I therefore remain of the view that the responsibility  of this mistake  can be attributed half and 
half to both CMAL  and Mr T  CMAL  shouldnt have recorded the information  incorrectly and 
Mr T shouldnt have  skimmed over his personal details when he was asked to check  
everything was correct.
What CMAL Limited must do to put things  right
I think the fairest way of resolving this is as follows:
CMAL puts Policy B in place, reconstructed  back to 2014  for the term that was 
remaining on Policy A in 2014,  19 years.
Mr T pays the premium he would have paid for Policy A had it remained in force 
going forward for as long as the policy remains in place or until the end of the term; 
plus half the difference in cost between Policy  A per month and Policy B per month  
for as long as the Policy is in place  or until the end of the term in 2033.
CMAL pays the remaining half of the difference  between the cost of Policy A per 
month and cost of Policy  B per month  for as long as the Policy  is in place or until the 
end of the term in 2033.
It is for CMAL and Mr T to decide  on the best method for the difference  in these premiums to 
be made by CMAL, going forward.  
If Mr T doesnt  want Policy B put in place  then there  is nothing  for CMAL to pay.
If for any reason CMAL  Limited cease  to exist, then any amount remaining due to be paid to 
Mr T will be paid by CMAL Limited in one lump  sum providing the policy  is still in force.
My final decision
My final decisions is that I uphold this complaint and direct CMAL  Limited  to redress  Mr T in 
the way I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1958204