K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy 
with her credit card in 2003.
background
I recently issued a provisional decision  on this complaint, which included the following:
Mrs B took out the credit  card and PPI during  a meeting with one of Barclays advisers. The 
PPI paid a monthly  benefit if Mrs B couldnt  work  due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Barclays disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld because  Mrs B says she had two 
pre-existing medical conditions, which meant  the PPI policy sold to her was unsuitable  
because she wouldnt have been able to claim for either of them.  Mrs B told us shed had 
time off work as a result of the conditions and ultimately left work because  of them. 
When the adjudicator  put all of this to Barclays as reason to uphold  the complaint, it 
disagreed. It responded with a number  of questions it wanted us to put to Mrs B by way of 
getting a better understanding of her conditions and of how they might  have factored into the 
advice Barclays should have offered her during the sale.  For example, Barclays wanted to 
know when Mrs B was diagnosed  with her conditions and when she had to stop working.
Our adjudicator put these questions to Mrs B in January  2019  and again the following month  
but no further information was provided. At my request, the adjudicator  put these questions 
to Mrs B for a third time and, again,  no further  information was provided. 
My current  views that I dont have enough information with which to say how Mrs Bs 
medical conditions  might have affected  the sale or even to show that they were  pre-existing 
at the relevant time.  That being the case,  I cant fairly say that the PPI was mis-sold on these  
grounds.    
Ive looked at how the remainder of the sale was carried out overall but havent seen 
anything else that would  lead me to believe the PPI was mis-sold to Mrs B. For example, Ive 
seen clear evidence  to show she was given a choice about taking PPI and that she decided  
to go ahead with it by ticking and signing the application form in the relevant places. And, 
from what I know about her circumstances in 2003:
Mrs B was eligible  for the cover. And she wasnt affected by any of the other  
exclusions to, or limits  on, the PPI. 
Ref: DRN14320642Mrs B seems  to have had a need for the cover   she only had limited  work benefits, 
and no other means, she could have relied on if she wasnt working due to disability 
or unemployment. On the other  hand, the PPI benefits could potentially  have paid out 
for up to 12 months per claim.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs B. And the policy was 
flexible in that she could have cancelled  it any time if she decided she no longer 
wanted it.
 
Barclays also had to ensure it gave Mrs B clear information about the PPI to allow her to 
make an informed decision about whether to take it. As Ive said,  I think that Mrs B chose to 
take it out  so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have 
provided useful  and affordable protection for her if something went wrong. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B, if it hasnt already done so, 
because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs B about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mrs B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so. Barclays should also pay back to Mrs B 
any extra  interest  she paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs B the difference  
between what Mrs B owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should  also pay Mrs B 
8%* simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs B can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my provisional decision
I currently dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so.
I asked the parties  to reply with any further  comments or evidence  they might  have before I 
looked into the complaint again.
Ref: DRN14320643Barclays confirmed it had nothing further  to add to my provisional decision. Mrs B didnt 
provide any further  comments or evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, and bearing  in mind the parties responses to my provisional decision,  I see 
no reason to reach a different decision now.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank  UK PLC doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1432064