K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) recorded inaccurate  information 
about his account with Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
background 
Mr K has a charge card account  with RBS. Last year he applied for a mobile  phone  contract  
but his application was turned down. He checked his credit  file and found that in 2015 RBS 
had recorded  information with CRAs to show that his account was six months  in arrears with 
an outstanding  balance. 
Mr K complained to RBS because he said the balance on his account should have been 
automatically collected in 2015. He said that in addition  to his mobile phone contract being 
turned down, he believed that hed also had credit card applications  turned down as a result 
of what RBS had put on his credit  file. He was also unhappy,  having  made  RBS aware, with 
how long it was taking  to respond  to his concerns. 
RBS accepted it should have taken the payment in question. It apologised for not responding 
sooner, wrote off the outstanding balance, said it had removed the incorrect  information it 
had recorded  and offered to pay Mr K £150 compensation for the trouble and upset hed 
been caused. It also commented  that it couldnt  establish how or whether the information 
had affected his applications  for credit. 
Mr K raised a complaint with our service because he didnt think  £150  was sufficient 
compensation. He also said that his account had been completely removed from his credit  
file. 
Our investigator considered what had happened. She agreed that RBS was at fault but 
thought that £150 compensation was reasonable in the circumstances. She also agreed that 
the information RBS recorded  may not have been  the reason  Mr K was turned down for 
credit. 
Mr K disagreed. He said that the information RBS had recorded  was the only adverse 
information on his credit file so it was the only reason he was turned down for credit. He 
provided copies  of his credit file to demonstrate this. 
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint.  In summary, I said:
I appreciate it must have  been very frustrating for Mr K to find that RBS had recorded 
inaccurate information about his account  for a number of years. RBS accepted that it did 
this, and offered  to compensate Mr K for the trouble and upset caused. Its for me to decide 
whether or not the £150 compensation RBS offered is reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr K says that he had two credit card applications declined  which  he believes was as a 
result of RBSs error. He says he also had a mobile phone contract declined  late last year 
which he says prompted him to check his credit file. 
Ref: DRN14448972Mr Ks given  us a copy of his credit file which shows he was able to open an account  with a 
mobile communications provider in 2016.  Although  it seems  that particular application was 
not adversely  affected by the information  RBS had recorded, Im nonetheless persuaded that 
Mr Ks credit  score was affected. Additionally, theres little other  information  on Mr Ks credit 
file one could  consider  to be adverse, so I accept that the information RBS recorded may 
well have influenced whether the applications  Mr Ks mentioned were successful or not. 
I think its fair that Mr K should be compensated for the trouble and upset hes been  caused. 
In deciding what a fair amount would be, Ive carefully considered  the evidence Mr K has 
sent us about  the impact the situation  has had on him. 
Mr Ks said that his applications for credit  were declined  in 2016. He says he was caused a 
financial loss because  if hed been successful he would have had access to preferential 
interest rates which he could have used whilst abroad on holiday. He also says the refusals 
caused him to avoid  applying for other products as further refusals could damage his credit  
rating further. Overall  he estimated hed been  caused a loss of around £1,000. 
Lenders are generally free to decide on what terms, if at all, they provide  borrowing. That 
means that even if Mr Ks applications wouldve been successful but for RBSs error,  we 
dont know the terms  and interest rates  which wouldve applied. Additionally, I think  its 
fair to say that Mr K has demonstrated  that he was aware that his credit file could have been 
affected by his applications. And lenders often suggest applicants theyve turned down 
check their credit files. In the circumstances, I think Mr K may have considered checking  his 
credit file in 2016,  which could  have  limited the impact he says the situation has had on him 
as it could have  been resolved earlier. Taking  all of this into account, I dont think itd be fair 
to make an award for the losses  Mr K says hes suffered.
I do accept though that Mr K was caused unnecessary trouble and upset, and Ive also 
considered the point  Mr K made about the time RBS took to correct  its error when he made it 
aware. RBS said that following his contact  on 18 September 2018, it updated Mr Ks credit 
file on 8 October 2018. I dont think that would  be unreasonable if RBS had updated Mr Ks 
credit file correctly, but I dont think it has. 
RBS told me it updated Mr Ks credit file to show that there are no outstanding  arrears and 
the account was closed  in April 2018. However, Mr Ks given  us a copy  of his credit  file 
produced in May 2019. It clearly  still shows  an outstanding balance of £64 on an RBS 
account from 2015 to 2018. It also shows that it was closed in April 2018.
RBS has a responsibility to record accurate information with CRAs. In this case, RBS should 
therefore reflect that there has been no outstanding balance on Mr Ks account,  as if it had 
collected the payment it was meant to in 2015. Further,  Mr K says that as far as hes aware 
the account is still open. And Im aware  that the account was a charge card linked to Mr Ks 
mortgage, which is still showing as active. So unless RBS can persuade me otherwise, it 
should also reflect that the account is open.
Overall I think  its clear  that RBS made an error and still hasnt  done  enough to put things  
right. Taking into account that RBS is still not reporting accurate information to Mr Ks credit 
file, and this could have an ongoing  impact on him, I dont think that £150 compensation is 
sufficient in the circumstances. Overall,  having  considered the impact the situation has had 
on Mr K, I think £250 compensation is a fair and reasonable  amount.  So thats what I intend  
to tell RBS to pay him.
Ref: DRN14448973I provisionally concluded that RBS should
-Update Mr Ks credit  file to show no outstanding  balance or arrears from 2015  to 
date; 
-Update Mr Ks credit  file to show his account  is still open;  and
-Pay Mr K a total of £250 compensation for the trouble and upset hes been  caused.
Both Mr K and RBS responded  to my provisional decision. Mr K said he had nothing  further  
to add. RBS however said that it didnt think it could  to anything further than it already has to 
correct its entry on Mr Ks credit file. It suggested  that it could be the particular  agency  Mr K 
has used that is reporting the account  in question  inaccurately and provided  me with a copy  
of the information it had recorded regarding Mr Ks account. 
I told RBS that the evidence  it had sent me to the information it had reported on Mr Ks credit  
file was represented accurately on his credit file. But that information  isnt an accurate 
representation of what happened; the account  still shows as being  closed since April 2018  
despite being active as late as October 2018  on previous reports, and it is still reporting  an 
outstanding balance of £64 from 2015 until 2018. I reiterated that RBS should follow the 
recommendations I made in my provisional decision.  I didnt hear back from RBS.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst both RBS and Mr K responded to my provisional decision,  neither party  has provided 
any new information I consider material to my assessment. As such, I find no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings,  and I now make  those final. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint and require The Royal Bank  of 
Scotland Plc to;
-Update Mr Ks credit  file to show no outstanding  balance or arrears from 2015  to 
date; 
-Update Mr Ks credit  file to show his account  is still open;  and
-Pay Mr K a total of £250 compensation for the trouble and upset hes been  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1444897