K820x#14complaint
This complaint is being made  by Mr W on behalf  of his wife, the late Mrs W, and himself. In 
the hope that Mr W wont mind, I will refer to the late Mrs W as Mrs W throughout this 
decision.
Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank PLC,  trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester 
(C&G), mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 1998  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  a monthly benefit towards Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage balance,  along with an additional  cash payment of £3.00 for every £1000  of the 
initial mortgage, in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £13.55 a month. 
At the time,  Mr W was self-employed as a carpenter. He has told us he was not entitled to 
any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means  of repaying their mortgage should he be 
unable to work. Mr W has said he was in good health at the time of the sale. 
At the time of the sale, Mrs W wasnt working. Ive seen that Mr and Mrs W have raised this 
as a reason why this policy shouldnt have been  sold to them.  But from the documentation  
Ive seen Mr W was the only person covered  by the policy and so Mrs Ws employment  
situation would not have  been relevant to any claim.
In 2000 Mr and Mrs W took out a further advance on their mortgage and at that point they 
increased the PPI policy to cover this additional  borrowing. While it isnt known how much 
the policy would repay a month towards  their mortgage balance,  we do know  that the 
premium increased to £19.55 per month.  From what weve  been  told Mr Ws employment  
circumstances remained the same as when they took out the initial policy  in 1998. 
C&G has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004.  
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
C&G  failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
Ref: DRN11953602The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means C&G should  have  told 
Mr and Mrs W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means C&G should  have  explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs W and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue. In particular,  they have said that 
Mrs W would  have turned 60 during the time the policy was in force  and so she 
wouldnt have been covered.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr and Mrs W disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
The initial sale took place  in 1998 with the increase taking place in February 2000, both of 
which were before the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC) published  its code of 
practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the GISC  Code,  the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching  
Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable  
to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Ref: DRN11953603The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like C&G  at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN11953604Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If C&G  gave advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether C&G gave  Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent they 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and C&G,  Ive decided  not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
C&G had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive been given a copy of both the 1998  and the 2000 PPI application forms which  were  
completed. These detail who should be insured and the percentage of benefit they should 
receive. I can see on each of these forms Mr W has been listed  as the only insured person 
and that he would receive  100% of the benefit  in the event  of a claim. Mr and Mrs W have 
both signed these forms and Mr W completed  direct  debit  mandates to allow the premiums  
to be taken from his bank  account. 
As these  forms were separate to the actual mortgage applications, I think  Mr and Mrs W 
would have known  that the PPI wasnt a condition of the lending. If they didnt want to take 
out the cover they didnt have to complete  the forms.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs W knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN11953605did C&G  provide advice?
C&G says it provided advice during  this sale. Mr and Mrs W disagree.  Looking at what C&G 
says happened  when it sold Mr and Mrs W the PPI, I think that it did provide advice.
This means  C&G had to advise Mr and Mrs W with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps C&G took to establish whether the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs W. It seems  Mr and Mrs W cant remember  clearly what  
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  Its likely that the adviser would have  
had some limited information about Mr and Mrs Ws financial circumstances, but there  is no 
specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps  to establish whether Mr W would have  been  
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policy did 
not fully meet their needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest C&G considered whether 
Mr W had any pre-existing  medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded C&G  did all it should  have done  to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs W given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded C&G advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded C&G did all it should have  done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs W, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs W had a need  for the policy  Mr W was the main  wage earner and it 
seems likely their finances would be put under  strain if he was not working  Mr W 
would not have received any sick pay if he was unable to work due to illness  and 
they didnt have any savings they could fall back on. The policy  would have helped 
Mr and Mrs W manage the consequences were Mr W unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs W.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs W. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ws employment or occupation which would  have made 
it difficult for him to claim, even though he was self-employed. And he hasnt told us 
about any pre-existing medical  conditions that could  affect his ability  to claim. There 
were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr W be disabled or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs W be unable to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ref: DRN11953606Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  C&G gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what C&G 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr W was unable to work  through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs W 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. And I can see on the PPI application form it states  the policy 
would provide cover for 100% of the monthly  mortgage payment, so I think  they would have 
had some idea of what the policy  would likely  provide  cover  for.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  C&G gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost, the actual monthly benefit or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs W agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs W Im not persuaded 
C&G did enough to present information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded C&G gave Mr and Mrs W all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ws. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
Ref: DRN11953607industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that C&G  ought  to have done either. 
what effect did C&Gs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that C&G didnt do all it should  have  done  when  it sold this policy to 
Mr and Mrs W. So I have  gone on to consider whether  it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs W suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  
whether or not Mr and Mrs W would  have still taken out the policy, had C&G done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded C&G took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs W, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs W have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if C&G had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs W would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy  
in any event.
Mr and Mrs W say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs W had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when C&G advised them that there  was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mr W was unable to work  because of accident,  sickness or unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W knew  they would  have to pay 
something for the policy, as they completed a direct  debit  mandate  to allow for the premiums 
to be taken from a bank account,  I dont have anything to show C&G told them the exact 
premium at the point  Mr and Mrs W applied for the policy. While the premium amount does 
show on the bottom of one of the documents,  it isnt clear if this was entered  after the policy 
had been sold.  Having said that, it seems  likely  Mr and Mrs W would have been told the cost 
before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number  of years,  so if the costs  
were significantly  at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might 
have raised that with C&G at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Ref: DRN11953608Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs W would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  C&G made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs W would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ws 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease or 
sickness which Mr W knew about or should  reasonably have known about at the start 
date of the policy or about which he had seen or arranged to see a doctor  or for 
which he received  treatment from a doctor during the 12 months immediately before 
the start date. This condition only applied if the condition occurred or re-occurred  
during the first 24 months of cover;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do his own gainful occupation or any similar gainful occupation which, in his insurers 
view, he would have  been, or may reasonably have become qualified for in view of 
his training, education and ability; 
The cover  provided  by the policy  ended when Mr W turned 65; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs W pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude  the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from taking out the 
policy. 
The evidence about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr W was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr W was self-employed  when the 
PPI was taken out, it wouldnt  have been  any harder for him to make a claim if he became 
unemployed than someone who was permanently employed. And I havent  seen  any 
evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr W 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions. So I still think they had some good  reasons 
to take the policy  out for Mr W.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr W 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
Ref: DRN11953609If Mr and Mrs W had known Mr W could  only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both 
his gainful occupation and any similar  gainful occupation which, in the insurers view, he 
might reasonably become qualified for in view of his training, education and ability, it might 
have played into their thinking  about  what they would have done. And I accept  it may have  
given them pause for thought  although  its possible  they may not have been  overly 
concerned given that if Mr W was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Mrs W would have reached 60 while  the policy was in 
place and she wouldnt have been  able to claim  on it at that point. The policy  does have an 
age limit, however  it is 65 years, not 60. And Mrs W wasnt insured on the policy so her age 
wouldnt have been a relevant factor. But I have considered the impact of this exclusion on 
Mr W. Mr W was 58 when  he took out the PPI, so I think its more  likely than not hed have 
thought hed still get some value out of having the PPI, as it would have covered him for a 
reasonable period of time before he turned  65. 
C&G may not have told Mr and Mrs W that any claim Mr W made  would be limited to a 12-
month. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for, but they 
didnt have any other means  to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs W would still have thought a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr W be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr Ws business was to fail, or if 
he was unable to work  through  accident  or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more 
likely than not Mr and Mrs W would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding 
the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN119536010Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs W found themselves in as result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude C&G  should pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs W think C&G misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
C&Gs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why C&G failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  C&G gave  Mr and Mrs W, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1998  and 2000 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find C&G negligently misrepresented  the contract  to Mr and Mrs W and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that C&G had been  in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN119536011my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1195360