K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about Trinity Lane Insurance Company  Ltds  handling of a claim on 
his motorhome insurance policy.
Reference to Trinity Lane includes its agents.
background
Mr Ws motorhome  was damaged in an accident.  Trinity  Lane  said that one of its approved 
repairers would repair  it. Mr W wanted  a motorhome specialist to do the repairs. And as 
Trinity Lanes approved repairer wasnt a motorhome specialist  Mr W asked for a cash  
settlement so he could  instruct  a different repairer.  After deducting Mr Ws £200 excess  
Trinity Lane offered  Mr W £4,500 to complete repairs. Thats because Trinity Lanes repairer 
said that they could complete the repairs for £4,700 and an engineer agreed that was a 
reasonable sum.
Mr W asked two motorhome repairers  to provide  estimates to repair  his motorhome. Both 
quoted him over £11,000. So, Mr W said he couldn't get the repairs done for the sum 
Trinity Lane offered  him. He brought his complaint  to us. One of our investigators looked into 
it. He didn't think Trinity Lane had done  anything wrong.  Mr W didn't agree so his complaint's 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr W has made a number of points but in this decision I will focus 
on what I see as being the key outstanding points following  our investigators assessment.
Mr Ws said that he would prefer a motorhome specialist to do the repairs.  While I can 
understand why Mr W may prefer a motorhome specialist  to do the repairs that isn't 
something his policy  guarantees. And Trinity Lane's approved repairer would  be required to 
complete all necessary  work required following the accident to an acceptable standard. So, if 
Trinity Lane can have  that work carried out for £4,700, I don't think  it would be fair to instruct  
it to pay more than double that because  Mr W would prefer to use a different repairer.
Ive looked at the estimates and, while the quotes Mr W provided both include far greater 
labour hours and costs, otherwise the work detailed on those are similar to the estimate 
provided by Trinity Lanes  repairer.  Mr W said that the repairers he approached both said 
that they would repair  the roof, which started  leaking following  the accident. But as I've said 
above Trinity Lanes approved repairer would be required  to repair  all damage  caused by the 
accident. So, if the roof is leaking as a result  of the accident then the approved repairer  
would be required to fix that. And I've noted that the approved repairers estimate does  
include repairs to the roof and related damage. So, Im not persuaded that Trinity Lane  
needs to increase its cash-in-lieu settlement because the other repairers  took the leaking 
roof on board.
Mr Ws added that he wasn't  sure that the engineer that Trinity Lane sent to look at his 
motorhome and the approved repairers estimate  was conversant with motorhomes. But I 
haven't seen any evidence,  beyond  Mr Ws comments, that the engineer didn't have the 
Ref: DRN12770112expertise to authorise the approved repairer's estimate. And as I've said above the approved  
repairer would be required to carry out all necessary work to an acceptable  standard. So, I 
don't think  any concerns  that Mr W might have about the engineers knowledge of 
motorhome repair  is enough  to persuade me that Trinity Lanes  offer to settle the claim is 
unfair.
For completeness Mr W told us that water has continued to leak into his motorhome while  its 
remained unrepaired. But if hed accepted the repairs by Trinity Lanes approved  repairer it's 
likely that wouldn't  have  happened as repairs would have been  completed.  So, I don't  think 
Trinity Lane is responsible for the water  leaking into Mr Ws motor home. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1277011