K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains about how Vitality Health  Limited  (Vitality) handled  various claims he made  
on two private medical insurance policies he had with it. Hes also unhappy about how one 
of his policies  was administered and he also complains he was referred to an unsuitable  
specialist.
background 
In November 2017 Mr K complained to Vitality. His key concerns were:
Vitality hadnt paid claims hed made for medical treatment in early  2017;
Vitalitys agent referred  him to an unsuitable specialist (consultant  A) to review a 
nerve condition  that had returned following an operation hed had to treat it in 2016.
He didnt think the referral  was suitable  because consultant A wasnt  able to perform  
the operation  needed  and he thought the tests  conducted were unnecessary.  He also 
didnt think consultant A would have accepted the referral had Vitality given him 
sufficient information  about Mr Ks nerve  condition;
In July 2017 Vitality  tried to collect Mr Ks monthly premium payment twice.  Mr K was 
concerned his bank  account would go overdrawn so he cancelled  his direct  debit  
instruction. This resulted  in ongoing  problems with future  payments  being made;
Vitality ended Mr Ks policy a month earlier than had been  agreed and rejected 
claims Mr K had made  for hospital treatment  hed received  after the policy  had 
ended; and
Vitality told Mr K during  a telephone  conversation that hed receive full cover  for 
private ambulance  transfer. However, after requesting a private transfer from a 
hospital to his home, Mr K was told the cover was limited to transfers  between  
hospitals. Because of this, Mr K felt Vitalitys use of the term full cover had been 
misleading.
Vitality didnt respond to Mr Ks concerns about it not paying the claims hed made  in early 
2017 or its use of full cover  to describe the cover  for private ambulance transfer.
In its letter  dated  9 October 2017  Vitality said that whilst it does say that 99.5% of its 
members see the right consultant the first time,  it doesnt  guarantee  the first medical 
professional seen will be able to treat a medical  condition.
In its letter  dated  September  2017 Vitality  accepted  its attempt to collect  a second premium  
payment in July 2017 was the result of a technical  error and it paid Mr K £25 for the 
inconvenience this had caused. But it didnt think it was responsible for the ongoing  
problems Mr K said he experienced  when trying to make further  payments.
In its letter  dated  29 December 2017 Vitality  accepted it had agreed for Mr Ks policy  to end 
on 2 December 2017, but it had ended the policy a month earlier because Mr K hadnt made 
the final premium payment. However,  it did agree to process Mr Ks hospital treatment 
claims if he made the final premium payment of £62.59.
Ref: DRN11123572Mr K wasnt  happy with Vitalitys responses  so he brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into his concerns and felt the complaint should be upheld  in part.
The investigator asked  Vitality about  the claims Mr K believed were  outstanding. Vitality 
confirmed it had paid one claim minus a £100  excess, but there was another claim 
outstanding and it arranged for it to be paid. The investigator also felt Vitality should  pay 
Mr K £100  for its delay  in paying the claim and worry the delay had caused Mr K and
Vitality agreed to do this. However, our investigator didnt think Mr Ks other complaint points 
should be upheld.
In response to the investigators assessment, Mr K reiterated that he didnt think  sufficient 
information about his medical  history had been shared with consultant  A. He also referred to 
a statement  given by Vitality in its online member area:
The right doctor, first time.
my provisional findings
I explained that Id considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done that, I was minded to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint  in part. 
claims made  in early 2017
I explained that following our involvement, Vitality had confirmed there was an outstanding 
unpaid claim. It had agreed  to pay this and also make an award of £100  for its delay in 
making the payment. I could see Mr K complained  about the outstanding claim in his letter to 
Vitality dated 26 November 2017,  but I couldnt  see Vitality had provided him with a 
response. 
I explained that Id taken  into account  the length  of time Mr K had been left waiting for the 
claim to be paid and the worry  this had caused him and I felt the award made  by Vitality fairly 
reflected this. Because of that, I wasnt minded to ask Vitality  to do anything  further.
referral to consultant  A
I acknowledged that Mr K felt strongly that the referral to consultant A wasnt  suitable  
because he wasnt able to perform the operation Mr K had needed. I also acknowledged  that 
hed referred to a statement given by Vitality in its online  member  area:
The right doctor, first time.
I explained that it appeared from what Mr K had told us that he thought  this statement was a 
promise or a guarantee that hed be referred to just one doctor  whod be able to diagnose 
and treat his medical condition. I explained  that Id taken Mr Ks view into account, but I 
wasnt satisfied this was how Vitality intended this statement to be interpreted, nor did I think 
this was a reasonable expectation. I said this because its very common for multiple doctors  
to be involved in the diagnosis and treatment  of a medical condition, especially if its 
complex.
Ref: DRN11123573I explained that Id carefully  reviewed the information Vitality  shares in its online member 
area and I could see that one of its quality assurance principles is:
The Panel will choose the most  appropriate consultant to manage your presenting
condition.
Vitality had confirmed that Mr K initially spoke to one of its General Practitioners whod told it 
that the opinion of a peripheral nerve  specialist  was needed. Mr K had suggested two nerve  
specialists, one of which was consultant A. Mr K had felt the other  specialist seemed more  
appropriate, but because they werent  on Vitalitys  list of approved  specialists Vitality couldnt  
arrange a referral to them.
However, Id taken into account  that consultant A had been able to review Mr Ks condition, 
perform tests and determine that Mr K needed surgery.  He then referred Mr K to another 
specialist who was able to perform the surgery Mr K needed. Based on that, I was satisfied 
consultant A had been able to manage  Mr Ks presenting condition.
I also noted Mr Ks comment that had consultant  A been given sufficient information about 
his previous operation and medical  history, he wouldnt have accepted  the referral. I 
explained that Vitality  had confirmed that its agent  spoke  to consultant A on the phone and 
gave him the following information:
Mr Ks age;
Mr K was suffering  from recurrent neuralgia in his right leg;
Mr K had previously had peripheral nerve surgery;
The name of Mr Ks previous consultant and hospital hed been treated  at; and
The surgery had initially gone well, but the symptoms of neuralgia had returned and 
Mr K had numbness in his right leg.
Based on that, I was satisfied consultant A had been  given  sufficient information  by Vitality to 
decide whether  he was suitably qualified to manage Mr Ks presenting condition.
I acknowledged that Mr K felt consultant  A had completed unnecessary tests and another  
specialist had confirmed  this. However, Mr K hadnt provided any information to show this. I 
explained that if Mr K remained  unhappy about  the treatment hed received from consultant 
A, then he could contact  the General Medical Council (GMC).
Taking everything into account,  I didnt agree the referral to consultant A was unsuitable. I 
also didnt think Vitality  had acted unreasonably by deducting consultant As costs from the 
out-patient benefit  limit. Because of that, I wasnt minded to ask Vitality to disregard these 
costs.
duplication and cancellation of premium  payments
I explained that I understood that a direct debit mandate  was in place for Mr Ks premium 
payments to be paid to Vitality on the seventh day of each month. The usual payment was 
received by Vitality  on 7 July 2017,  but it also attempted to debit a further  payment on
10 July 2017 in error. I acknowledged Mr K had said he cancelled the direct debit instruction 
to avoid the further payment leaving his account  and going  overdrawn.
Ref: DRN11123574Vitality said it had asked Mr K for a new direct debit  instruction for his ongoing payments, 
which it received. However,  it was notified by Mr Ks bank on 25 July 2017  that the direct 
debit had been cancelled and it wasnt able to collect the premium  due on 7 August  2017.
I also noted that Vitality  had said Mr K told it hed cancelled the new instruction because  hed 
been told by his bank the original instruction hadnt  been cancelled. Vitality confirmed the 
original instruction had been cancelled and it wrote  to Mr K on 26 July 2017  to ask him to set 
up another direct debit  instruction. I understood a further instruction was arranged in
August 2017,  but subsequently cancelled by Mr K. I also understood that it wasnt until
15 September 2017 that another direct  debit instruction was set up and remained in place.
I explained that Vitality  had accepted  it was responsible for the original error that had 
resulted in Mr K cancelling  the direct debit  instruction and it paid him £25 for the 
inconvenience this had caused. I thought this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I also noted Vitality had asked Mr K on a number of occasions to arrange  a new direct debit 
instruction so it could  collect future payments. I didnt think  that was unreasonable.  And 
based on the information Id seen, I couldnt  hold Vitality  responsible  for Mr Ks difficulty and 
delay in arranging  further payments. Because of that, I wasnt minded to ask Vitality  to do 
anything further.
cancellation of the policy early and non-payment  of outstanding invoices
I explained that it wasnt in dispute  that Mr K and Vitality had agreed  the policy would end on 
2 December 2018. But because Mr K hadnt  paid the final premium, I didnt think Vitality  had 
acted unreasonably by ending the policy early.
Mr K subsequently submitted claims for hospital  treatment hed received on
11 November 2017, but Vitality  refused  to pay these claims because the treatment had 
occurred after the policy had ended.
I noted that Mr Ks policy terms  and conditions said:
7.2 CANCELLING YOUR PLAN AFTER THE 14 DAY PERIOD
If for any reason you decide to cancel your plan after the 14 day period, please  let us know  
either by telephoning, emailing or writing to the customer  services  team  that administers 
your plan. We will refund any premiums you have paid that relate to the period after your 
cancellation date.  Please  note that we will not backdate cancellation or pay for any treatment 
that takes place  after your last day of cover.
I explained that because Mr Ks hospital treatment had taken place after the policy  had 
ended, I didnt think Vitality had acted unfairly by refusing to pay for the treatment. I noted 
that Vitality had since said that it would pay Mr Ks claims if he makes  a final premium 
payment of £62.59 and I thought that was fair in the circumstances. 
private ambulance  cover
I acknowledged that Mr K had said hed been  told by Vitality  that it provided  full cover for 
private ambulance  transfer. He felt this was misleading because the cover was in fact 
limited to transfers between hospitals.
Ref: DRN11123575I noted that Mr K had been unable to say when this conversation took place and Vitality  had 
been unable  to find a record of it. So I didnt  know what was discussed with Mr K at that 
time. However, I could  see that Vitality uses the term full cover for private ambulance 
cover in the certificate of insurance  it sent to Mr K, so I accepted this is a term Vitality  uses 
when describing  the cover.
I noted that the certificate of insurance explains:
to understand your cover properly  please read this certificate together with the Your plan 
terms and conditions document, which  youll find by logging on to the Member Zone at 
member vitality.co.uk and let us I now if anything is missing or something  is incorrect.
I also noted that what Vitality meant when using the term full cover is explained on page  11 
of the policy  terms and conditions document. This says:
Wherever we say full cover in your certificate of insurance we mean all of your eligible  
costs will be covered in full
Whilst I accepted the meaning of the term may not have been  explained to Mr K during the 
conversation he said he had with Vitality, I was satisfied the meaning of the term is made 
clear in the policy terms which Mr K would  have had access to.
I also noted the eligible costs for private ambulance transfer are also explained on page 12:
Charges  for the use of a private ambulance for transfer between  hospitals, whether NHS or 
private, if a consultant  recommends it as medically necessary.
I thought this had made it clear that Mr K would only be able to claim for a private ambulance  
transfer between  hospitals. Based on that, I wasnt minded to conclude Mr K was given 
misleading information about what his cover would include.
responses to my provisional  decision
Vitality accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any additional submissions.
Mr K disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, he said:
Hed previously been diagnosed with Meralgia Paraesthetica rather  than Neuralgia  
(which is what  Vitality  had told consultant A). He feels that had Vitality checked  its 
records of his previous  claim,  it would have known this; 
He reiterated  that the consultant who completed  his surgery had  told him the tests 
that had been conducted by consultant A had been unnecessary and Vitality  hadnt 
looked into this; 
The final premium payment was supposed  to have been taken before Mr K went into 
hospital and no attempt was made to let him know the payment was outstanding 
before the policy was ended; and
Vitality should have been able to find a recording of the conversation hed had with it 
about the cover for private ambulance  transfer.  He also said Vitalitys website used 
the term full cover.
Ref: DRN11123576my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments including Mr Ks additional 
comments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, it remains that Im only going  to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain 
why.
Ive taken into account Mr Ks comment that the nerve condition hed previously been 
diagnosed with was Meralgia  Paraesthetica  and so Vitalitys use of the term Neuralgia to 
describe his condition was incorrect. I understand  the medical term Neuralgia concerns  
nerve pain in general and the term Meralgia  Paraesthetica concerns nerve pain located in 
the thigh, so there is a difference. However, Im still satisfied the information given to 
consultant A was sufficient for him to decide whether he was suitably qualified to manage
Mr Ks presenting condition. And for the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision, it 
also remains my view that consultant  A was able to manage Mr Ks presenting condition.
I understand Mr K wanted Vitality to investigate his concern that the tests conducted by 
consultant A werent necessary, but I dont  think Vitality has acted  unreasonably  by not doing 
this. I say this because I think any investigation  into the actions  of a medical professional  is 
better suited  to the GMC.  
I appreciate Mr Ks comment about Vitality not getting in touch with him before ending  the 
policy and I can see why Mr K would have preferred Vitality to have done this. However,  it 
was ultimately up to Mr K to ensure his premium payments were paid and I dont think 
Vitality has acted unreasonably by ending the agreement early. It has also offered to cover 
Mr Ks claims for hospital treatment if he makes the final premium  payment which  I still think  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
Mr K is adamant Vitality should have  been able to access a recording of the conversation 
hed had with it about the cover for private  ambulance transfer. I appreciate  Mr Ks point of 
view, but I havent  needed  to listen to this call to reach a view on whether Vitalitys use of the 
term full cover in connection with the private  ambulance transfer  cover  was misleading. I 
explained in my provisional decision  that I accepted this is a term that Vitality uses  when 
describing this cover,  but I felt that what Vitality had meant when using this term, along with 
what costs were covered,  had been  clearly explained in the policy  terms and conditions  
document which Mr K would have had access to. 
I appreciate the matter  is very important to Mr K, but for the reasons Ive explained, it 
remains that Im only going to uphold the complaint in part.   
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and for the reasons given  in my provisional decision and my 
findings above I direct Vitality Health Limited to pay Mr K £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Michelle Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1112357