K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that an early settlement figure  he was given by Provident Personal  Credit 
Limiteds representative on the telephone in August 2018 is binding but Provident says that it 
is not.  
background
I issued a Provisional  Decision with detailed findings  and it is attached and forms part of this 
decision. In it were a series of directions as to how I planned to resolve this complaint. 
Both parties  were given  until 14 September 2020  to reply and send me anything further. We 
heard from Mr O who wished to have the planned redress  directions explained to him. But 
apart from that, we have  heard nothing  more from either party. 
This complaint has been unresolved for some  time and so in the interests  of all parties I am 
proceeding to issue my Final Decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further arguments 
or evidence  sent to me over the past month,  then I have no reasons to alter my provisional 
findings. 
The loan agreements  were not varied  by the telephone calls in August  2018.  But Provident  
has conceded that its operative  did make  mistakes and I agree. But the redress Provident 
has carried out to date has not been  enough  for Mr O. 
In order to resolve the complaint my decision is that this is what  Provident  should do:
pay Mr O directly a sum of £400  for distress  and inconvenience; and
reconfigure the Loan 2 outstanding balance to be the same reduced  balance of £996  
offered to him in August 2018  and treat that as if it was the working balance for 
Loan 2. Any intervening  payments (since  August  2018) by Mr O to pay down Loan 2 
since mid-August 2018 are to be accounted for to reduce  the balance  with £996 as 
the starting point.  If there is a balance still outstanding then Mr O will need to pay it.
 
As I am directing that this Loan 2 figure  be treated as if it were an ESB,  then in 
fairness to Provident,  Mr O ought to repay  that outstanding balance  to Loan 2 within  
28 days of his acceptance of my final decision   if he does accept it; and
Provident should correct Mr Os personal credit  file since mid-August 2018 for both 
Loan 1 and Loan 2 to reflect that where  payments have been  made,  albeit a reduced 
amount, that they were paid and they are not recorded as late.
Ref: DRN15772922my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint in part and direct that Provident Personal  
Credit Limited does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 October  2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
my provisional  decision appears on the next page
Ref: DRN15772923my provisional decision dated 14 August 2020
Background
Mr O took two loans - he may have taken more but for the purposes of this complaint  I have been 
informed about two. One was a cash home-credit  loan for £2,100 in March  2017.  When  the interest 
and charges were  added  to it then the balance  to repay was £4,804.80.  This had a loan reference 
ending *258 and I will refer to it as Loan 1. 
The second  loan was taken out in December 2017 for a cash home credit loan of £1,400 and with the 
interest and charges the amount to repay was £3,348.80.  This had a loan reference ending *345 and 
I will refer to it as Loan 2. Mr O still had an outstanding balance of around £3,470 on Loan 1 when he 
took Loan  2. 
In August 2018 Mr O repaid large  sums  to pay down  each  loan: around £940 on Loan 1 (leaving  a 
balance of £1,472.73)  and around £650 on Loan 2 (leaving a balance  of £1,953.47). In August 2018  
Mr Os total balance  still due to Provident was around £3,426.
Later that same  month on 17 August  2018,  having made no additional  repayments, Mr O called 
Provident to ask for an early settlement  figure. Mr O says that he was told by Providents  telephone 
representative that the balance  was £1,953.47  and if he settled that day then he would receive a 
refund of £996.22.  Later the telephone  representative said that the amount to pay was £996.22. Mr O 
was transferred to the payment line at which point  he was informed that the early settlement figure  
would be over £2,000. The figure  given earlier of £996.22  was the early settlement  figure  for Loan 2 
only. 
Mr O is adamant that the figure offered  of £996.22 was, and remains, a legally  binding contract  for all 
of his indebtedness  with Provident and he says that Provident should stick to that. Mr O complained.
Providents final response letter (FRL)  dated 13 September  2018 concedes  that a mistake had been 
made and upheld his complaint and said it had reduced Mr Os balance on his Loan 2 by £50 to 
apologise for the upset. I can see from the account details given to us by Provident that £50 was 
credited to Loan 2 on 14 September 2018. Fresh early settlement balances (ESB) were  given for 
each loan in the FRL. 
Mr O brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator  looked at the complaint and thought that Provident  
did not need  to do more: it had accepted the mistake, upheld his complaint and she felt that the £50 
apology sum credited to Loan  2 to reduce the balance  was fair. 
Mr O disagreed and the complaint remained  unresolved  and was passed  to me for a decision.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have considered the law and good practice. 
Provident has sent to me the recorded calls of the conversations Mr O had with three people at 
Provident on the same  day: the man dealing  with the early  settlement figures; the lady who was ready  
to take payment and the manager. I have listened to them all. 
It does appear to have been the case that the first Provident operative dealing with the settlement 
figures had to put Mr O on hold and check things and got facts muddled  right from the start.  Initially he 
quoted £236.13 as a settlement figure and Mr O realised  that was incorrect. Then the figures  changed  
and as I have said in the background  part of this decision, even that was unclear. Listening to that 
call it is clear to me that he was not very confident in what he was saying. He seemed  to be confused 
whether it was a rebate  to Mr O or a payment to be made by Mr O to achieve the early settlement 
figures. 
Ref: DRN15772924The second  lady who was due to take payment  from Mr O instantly recognised that there had been a 
mistake quoting the £996  figure,  and she explained that the first operative had quoted the early  
settlement figure  for just one agreement ending *345 (Loan  2). And from what  I can see on the 
statement of accounts  that figure of about £996 was likely  correct at that date.
I have listened to the calls to identify whether Mr O was asking for an ESB for both or one account. 
And I conclude that he started by asking about his account in the singular,  and then asked for the 
amount to pay to clear off and finish all I ve got with you and to be done with you guys. These parts 
of the conversation do demonstrate to me that Mr O wanted the overall final figure  for his total 
indebtedness and was willing to pay. And the first operative confirmed again that the £996 figure 
would clear it. 
Provident has accepted that it did something wrong  and so I need not address that aspect in too 
much detail. And the issue remains as to whether this was binding on Provident.  Mr O is placing a lot 
of emphasis on the fact that the calls were recorded. His argument is that Provident should honour 
that figure to clear both his accounts. The recording of the calls has provided me with clear evidence 
of exactly  what was said and how it was said in August 2018 and I have weighed it all up carefully.
Overall, I am satisfied that these conversations  did not result  in a binding contract in relation to both 
accounts. And that is what my provisional decision  is.  
The contracts for the loan had been in place for some time and Mr O called Provident in order to 
reduce his debt. For there to be a variation of those loan contracts the ingredients of a contract  had to 
have existed and I do not think they did. Those ingredients include an actual agreement, certainty of 
the terms, consideration  (which is a legal  term I refer to later), an intention  to create legal  relations 
and for some types of contract  a required formality. Rather than analyse  all the parts, I am focussing 
on the elements I think are missing. 
The first Provident operator  was not at all confident or clear on what  he was explaining to Mr O and 
got it very obviously  wrong at first when he said that the ESB would be about £236. After  that, as 
I said earlier  in this decision, he was very unsure, placed  Mr O on hold more  than once, and vacillated 
between telling Mr O it was an amount to pay and it was a rebate. These are two quite different things 
and so the terms  of any variation were not at all clear. 
Secondly, there was no consideration by Mr O or Provident in order to make it binding.  Consideration 
is an involved  element of contract law and I do not intend to say more than I have satisfied myself that 
there was no consideration by either party and it is an essential  ingredient of any contract. 
And thirdly, the whole basis of the conversations  was founded on a mistake and one I think that Mr O 
suspected may have  been  too good to be true as his reaction was a very positive one when he 
thought that the £996 figure cleared his overall  balance  of over £3,400. It is likely  that Mr O would  
have known that his overall balance was much higher  than the £996 being  quoted to him and not 
least because he had just repaid some earlier that same month  and he was calling in to make 
overpayments again. 
That mistake  was corrected by the second lady within minutes of Mr Os first call and so even if it had 
been a valid variation of the loan contracts (which I do not think it was) I think  it was voidable  and the 
evidence to point to it being avoided  is the swift understanding and explanation of the mistake to Mr O 
in the second call. Providents explanation  had a logical basis which was that the £996 figure was the 
ESB for Loan  2 only. 
That second  call does confirm to me that Provident  would  have been willing to accept the £996 figure  
in relation to Loan 2 which  had an outstanding balance  of around £1,953 at the time.  And looking at 
all the evidence, I have  provisionally decided  that one of the consequences  of this mistake by the first 
operative is that Mr O has lost out on the opportunity to reduce his balance and save interest on 
Loan 2. Mr O has told me that the current balance  on that Loan 2 account  is about  £1,793.  So, I am 
planning to direct  that this is put right. 
Ref: DRN15772925I am not satisfied that Mr O has been adequately compensated  for the mistake that Provident has 
accepted took place. I have  asked Mr O for additional  details and I think  that he has experienced 
distress and poor customer service and has experienced inconvenience. 
I know that Provident  has already made amends with a £50 payment,  but the money  to apologise 
ought to have  been cash to Mr O directly and not a reduction  of his loan balance.  And I think  that it 
may have been an adequate amount at the time it was offered, but there have been additional 
consequences flowing  from this mistake  which  have caused stress and inconvenience to Mr O and 
I plan to make an award to him. 
Mr O has explained to me that he entered into a £25 monthly  repayment arrangement while this 
complaint was being resolved and he has had many visits to his home by Provident representatives 
(debt collectors) to demand payment. He has explained the impact that has had on him. In addition, 
Provident has reported to the credit bureaus that his payments are late which has affected his credit 
file.  
Mr O was subjected to a Provident employees  mistake which has had consequences and Mr O was 
entitled to bring the complaint as he was sure that the basis of it was sound: that the amount he owed 
was substantially less than the original agreements due to the ESB figure  he was given. Even though  
I have made  a provisional decision that this has not radically altered his two loan contracts  and that in 
essence it was a mistake  by that operative, Mr O did not need to have the additional  pressure and 
credit file issues which flow from Providents  mistake. 
I can see from the history  of these accounts that Mr O had been a regular  payer  up until this 
August 2018  conversation and in fact had repaid large amounts  just three weeks earlier and was 
telephoning Provident to pay another large sum to reduce  his balance as well. The copies  of his 
personal credit file show that he has lots of green  ticks to show OK payment entries  for almost all the 
months on both accounts for the periods leading up to August  2018. After  that date there are a lot of 
entries to show late payment. So, I do think that Mr O has been subjected to more upset  and trouble 
than he deserved and for that I plan to award him £400. The original £50 reduction of the balance for 
Loan 2 should remain. 
I have discretion to direct what I think is fair and reasonable and I think  that the loan account for 
Loan 2 should be reworked to reflect that ESB given to Mr O in August 2018  and any repayments  
paid towards  the account  since then would  be to go towards that reduction from the starting balance  
of £996. In fairness  to Provident,  I think  that Mr O ought to repay  now any balance which  remains of 
that £996  after the intervening payments have been taken into account. And if Mr O is not able to 
repay that balance now then it ought to be within  28 days of Mr O accepting  the final decision (once 
issued) after this provisional decision, if he does accept  it. 
I plan to direct that the late payments indicators on Mr Os credit file are corrected as I understand  
that although he has been paying a reduced amount, he has been paying.  
In summary  I am planning  to direct  that Provident does as follows:
pay Mr O directly a sum of £400 for distress and inconvenience; and
that the reduced balance of £996 is the working balance for Loan 2 and that any intervening 
payments by Mr O to Loan 2 since mid-August 2018 are accounted for, and that in fairness, 
Mr O pays  any further outstanding  balance to Loan 2 within  28 days of Mr Os acceptance of 
any final decision of this complaint when it is issued and if it is accepted;
correct Mr Os personal credit file since mid-August 2018 for both Loan 1 and Loan  2 to reflect 
that where payments  have been made, albeit  a reduced amount, that they were  paid and 
they are not recorded  as late.
As this is a provisional decision, then both parties can come  back to me with any additional points or 
evidence and these need to reach me within  a month.
Ref: DRN1577292