K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1994. Mr G says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Mr G says he cant remember 
anything about  PPI and hasnt given  us much detail about what  happened or was said 
during the sale.  And HSBC hasnt been  able to send  us anything from the sale showing Mr G 
chose to take the PPI. Due to the amount  of time that has passed since  the sale though,  I 
dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does means is that, because of the limited information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that HSBC made Mr G think  he had to have the PPI. 
So I think its likely it made it clear  to him that he had a choice about it, and that he chose  to 
take it.
Mr G says HSBC  didnt  recommend the PPI to him. HSBC says it cant confirm  how the 
credit card and PPI were  sold and so cant be sure whether  it did recommend the PPI. If 
HSBC did recommend the PPI, it wouldve had more responsibilities during the sale, which 
would be to Mr Gs benefit.  So, as HSBC cant be sure, Ive assessed the complaint as if it 
did recommend the PPI to Mr G. This means  HSBC had to check  whether the PPI was right 
for Mr G.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Gs circumstances  at the time,  I think that the PPI was right 
for him. He doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover.  And hes told us he wasnt entitled  to any sick pay and didnt  have any other 
means he couldve used  to make his repayments  if he wasnt  earning.
Mr G has said he was self-employed when the PPI was sold.  But the policy did cover self-
employed people,  and didnt make it significantly  more difficult  for them  to claim than for 
employed people.  So I still think it was right for him.
As well as checking it was right for him, HSBC had to give Mr G clear information about  the 
PPI. Its possible the information  it gave him wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But, for the 
same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would  have been  useful  for 
Mr G if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr G off taking it out.
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
Ref: DRN19967972But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1996797