K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains Elite Insurance Company Limited hasnt paid his claim on his alloy wheel 
insurance policy. 
For ease any reference to Elite includes its agents.  
background
Mr S put in a claim to repair damage  to his alloy wheels  in June 2018. Elite accepted the 
claim and explained  there  was a restricted payments protocol in place, but said the repairer 
would be in contact  in four weeks. When Mr S didnt hear anything further he contacted  Elite 
to find out what  was happening.   
Elite said the restricted payment protocol  remained  in place and referred Mr S to their 
website for updates. Because of the lack of information Mr S also contacted  the garage he 
bought the insurance through. 
Elite issued a final response  in September 2018  where they explained that because  of a 
reinsurance arrangement affecting  Elites  assets,  a restricted payments protocol had been  
introduced. Elite said Mr S would receive an update by 7 September 2018. Mr S didnt 
receive an update  by 7 September 2018  so he contacted Elite again to find out what was 
happening. As Mr S wasnt happy with Elites response he brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Ss complaint and recommended it was upheld. He found that 
Mr S hadnt  been  given  any specific  updates or even told when the repair would be done. Mr 
S had also spent a lot of time contacting  Elite and the business  which  sold him the policy  
trying to find out what was happening. Because of this our investigator recommended  Elite 
pay Mr S £100 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by the lack of 
communication during the claim.
Mr S responded to say he accepted our investigators findings. Elite responded and 
disagreed, they said because  of the payment protocol they were  unable to issue refunds 
sooner and didnt  agree  to the £100  compensation. They also said Mr S had been kept 
updated during  the time. 
As Elite disagreed the complaint has come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr Ss claim to repair  his car has now been arranged so I wont go into that further  
here. 
Elite disagreed with the £100  distress  and inconvenience recommended.  They said as the 
payment issue was across all polices and was outside of Elites  control,  there wasnt 
anything else they could do. In regards to the time taken to pay the claim Elites  website 
explains this was because  of an appointment of a liquidator to a third party insurer, who 
reinsures most of Elites  assets. Im therefore  satisfied the delay was outside  of Elites 
control, but I think they could have done  more to keep Mr S updated during this time.  
Ref: DRN10211112I say this because  Mr S chased Elite and their representatives  several  times to find out what  
was happening.  When Elite let Mr S know the problem was going  to continue for some  time 
they didnt provide time scales or let him know what other options he may have. 
There does appear  to be some communication to Mr S before and after the final response 
received from Elite.  Elite have provided a breakdown of contact between  them  and Mr S 
which shows he was provided some information during the claim. However I can see Mr S 
had other  questions and had to chase Elite several times when he didnt hear back  by the 
dates given. I can also see Mr S tried multiple times  to speak with Elite on the phone and 
requested call backs but didnt receive  them. Because of this Mr S had to spend  a lot of time 
trying to find out what was happening  and chasing  Elite up. Elite should therefore pay Mr S 
£100 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience he suffered by not being kept updated 
and having to chase Elite for updates. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold this complaint and require Elite Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Mr S £100  for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Elite Insurance Company  Limited should do this within 28 days of us telling them  Mr Ss 
accepted my final decision. If it pays the compensation later than this they should add 
interest to the compensation at 8% simple per year from the date of my decision until the 
date they make payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Elite Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr S a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Ref: DRN1021111