K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance ( BPF).
background
In May 2018  Mr D was supplied with a car and entered into a financial agreement  with BPF. 
At the point of supply the car was approximately 11 months old and had covered 
approximately 6,600 miles.
Mr D experienced a number of issues  with the car. Repairs were carried out by the 
dealership to the clutch and flywheel in September 2018 but when Mr D got the car back he 
noticed a vibration. He reported  this to the dealership  and BPF.
BPF arranged for an independent inspection. The report concluded that the car displayed 
rough clutch  action and vibration through the clutch pedal. It concluded that the previous 
repairs hadnt been successful.
Mr D continued to experience issues with the car and it was returned  to the dealership  
several times. He was provided with a courtesy  car during this time which he says was 
unsuitable for his needs. Further repairs were carried out to the clutch  and flywheel in 
February 2019 but this didnt resolve  the issue. BPF arranged  for a further independent  
inspection. The report identified vibration and Mr D asked to reject the car.
BPF didnt  agree to the request to reject so Mr D complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She recommended that Mr D should  be allowed to 
reject the car.
BPF accepted the investigators view.  But Mr D wasnt happy about the fact that he was 
being asked to pay arrears which had accrued on the account. He said he would accept the 
investigators view and reject the car, and refer the issue of the arrears only to the 
ombudsman for a final decision. BPF agreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr D accrued arrears on the account  in 2018. These were written off by BPF 
in February 2018.  But Mr D hasnt made any payment to the account since  then.  BPF issued  
a default notice in May 2019  and advised  Mr D that once the car was returned, the debt 
would be passed  to a debt recovery company who could agree a repayment plan with him.
Mr D doesnt feel that he should have to pay the arrears. He says that if BPF had accepted 
the investigators initial view in March 2019  and had allowed him to reject the car at that time,  
there wouldnt be any arrears.
In considering whether to ask a business  to refund monthly repayments (or write off arrears)  
I need to look at whether the car has been  driveable. So, for example, if a car has been  in a 
Ref: DRN12010032garage for a period  of time, Id consider asking the business to refund all or some of the 
monthly payments  made during that time.
I can see that Mr Ds car was in the garage  for a significant period of time in 2018. And 
although he was provided with a courtesy  car, it appears that this wasnt  suitable  for his 
needs, which included  needing to fit a pushchair in. BPF agreed  to write off the arrears  
which accrued in 2018 which I think was fair. So Im only concerned  with arrears which have  
accrued since then.
I understand the point which D has made  about  BPF being in a position to accept his request 
to reject sooner.  I can see that the investigator  recommended rejection in her initial  view in 
March 2019. However,  I can also see that BPF didnt agree with the view and has provided  
further evidence  since then for the investigator  to consider. Whilst this evidence  didnt 
ultimately change  the overall outcome, it did change the investigators  reasoning  for 
recommending rejection.  The business  is entitled to disagree with the investigator  and 
provide more evidence and in this case,  because the evidence  changed the rationale,  I dont  
think its fair to say that the initial view should have  been accepted.  
Moreover, Mr D has been able to use the car since February 2019. I appreciate that his use 
of the car has been impaired because of the ongoing issues,  but I think this impaired use 
has already been  recognised and reasonably compensated for in the distress  and 
inconvenience award of £550  which Mr D has accepted. Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that Mr D wasnt able to use the car since February 2019  in particular, he hasnt said that 
hes had to use a hire car or public transport.  So I cant fairly conclude  that Mr D should be 
exempt from making his monthly payments.
Ive taken into account what Mr D has said about  not being able to pay the arrears in a lump 
sum or over a short period of time. So whilst Im not of the view that the arrears  should be 
written off, I think  BPF should ensure that it arranges an affordable repayment plan with Mr 
D.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint in relation to payment of the arrears.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1201003