K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about advice he was given by AWD Home Finance Limited, a broker and 
appointed representative of Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited.  He says he was 
mis-sold a mortgage. A complaints management company (CMC)  has brought this complaint 
on behalf of Mr L.
background
Mr L re-mortgaged in 2006 following advice from L&G. The CMC says the advice it gave to 
Mr L wasnt suitable. It says L&G shouldnt have recommended Mr L consolidate  a loan 
which had an interest rate of 6.1%. And it says Mr L had to repay  the previous lenders 
£1,000 help with costs benefit that had only 11 months left to run. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying:
Mr L wanted to raise capital for home improvements and reduce the term of his 
mortgage. Consolidating the loan and other  unsecured debts reduced Mr Ls outgoings. 
The interest rate on the new mortgage was lower.  L&G made Mr L aware of the effects  
of consolidating  the loan.
the incentive had to be repaid if Mr L repaid his existing mortgage or took out a new 
mortgage product  with his existing lender before mid 2007.  Mr Ls product had expired. 
Given Mr Ls aims, it was likely hed have gone  ahead with the re-mortgage even if hed 
known hed have  to repay  the £1,000.
The CMC responded  on behalf of Mr L to ask for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
The broker  recommended  the mortgage  to Mr L. So it needed  to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the mortgage was suitable  for him, including gathering information about  Mr Ls 
needs and circumstances. L&G provided copies  of mortgage paperwork,  including a client 
review and mortgage record of suitability.
These documents say Mr L wanted to raise £2,100 for a new bathroom. He wanted to 
reduce the term of his mortgage but also reduce his monthly outgoings so that hed have 
more disposable  income. He intended to make  overpayments to reduce  the term further.
Increasing the amount of Mr Ls mortgage  loan and reducing the term meant his monthly 
repayments increased  which would have  reduced  his monthly  disposable income. The 
broker recommended  consolidating Mr Ls unsecured debts to reduce his monthly debt 
repayments. 
Ref: DRN19977542Mr L had three credit  card accounts  (totalling about £3,000),  an unsecured  loan (about 
£12,000) and an overdraft. The monthly cost of Mr Ls unsecured  debt repayments  was £437 
and his monthly payments for his existing mortgage were £331 (totalling £768).
The broker  recommended  a mortgage  with a 15 year term. This was about  eight years 
shorter than Mr Ls existing mortgage  term. The initial interest  rate was 4.44%. After  taking 
out the new mortgage, with the additional borrowing and debt consolidation, Mr Ls monthly 
debt repayments  were £592.24.  The broker set out the implications of consolidating debt  
including a comparison of the overall  cost of the mortgage with and without consolidating  the 
unsecured debts. 
Mr L had received a help with costs benefit of £1,000 from his previous lender. This was 
repayable if he repaid  the mortgage or took out a new product with the same lender within 
three years of completion  (mid 2007). The fixed  rate product  on Mr Ls existing mortgage 
had ended and his lenders standard variable rate (SVR) of 5.99% applied. To avoid  having  
to repay  the £1,000, Mr L would have  had to remain on the lenders SVR until mid 2007.  The 
client review says Mr L was prepared to repay the £1,000  benefit.
Overall, I dont  think the brokers recommendation was unsuitable. It achieved  Mr Ls aim of 
raising capital for a new bathroom, shortening the mortgage term and increasing  his 
disposable income by reducing his monthly debt repayments.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1997754