K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC Trust Company (UK) Ltd didnt deal with the transfer of a child 
trust fund account as quickly as it should have  done and the delay has meant his children 
havent been treated the equally.
background
Mr T opened Child Trust Funds (CTF)  with HSBC for his two children  who Ill call Child 1 
and Child  2. Mr T sent off requests at the same time and asked HSBC to transfer the 
proceeds of both CTF accounts  to a new provider in mid July 2018.  HSBC completed 
Child 2s CTF transfer at the end of July 2018. But Child  1s transfer  didnt complete until a 
number of weeks later. And in the meantime the valuation of each  unit in Child 1s fund had 
fallen.
Mr T complained to HSBC. He wanted  Child 1 to be put in the same position  they would 
have been had Child 1s transfer  been processed at the same  time as Child 2. And he also 
complained that the late investment meant  Child 1s CTF proceeds bought a higher number 
of units in their new account  than would have been  the case  if the delay hadnt occurred. 
Hed like Child 2 to be compensated for the financial benefit  Child  1 has received because  
he wanted the funds for both children invested  at the same price.
In its final response letter  HSBC agreed  that the transfers should  have been processed at 
the same  time. To put matters right HSBC  calculated  Child  1s loss and paid this to Child 1s 
new account. However, Mr T says this was done  without consulting  him first as hed asked.
HSBC said it didnt  contact Mr T beforehand because it had an obligation to put Child 1s 
account into the position it would  have been in had the delay not occurred. By way of 
apology it offered £200 compensation,  which Mr T rejected. However,  HSBC  didnt agree to 
compensate Mr T or Child 2 for the amount of Child 1s financial advantage.
Unhappy with HSBCs response Mr T referred  his complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint should  be upheld. And she thought  £200  
compensation was reasonable  taking  into account HSBCs mistake and the inconvenience 
caused.
Mr T disagrees with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im sorry to disappoint  
Mr  T but I broadly agree with the investigator  and for much the same reasons.
HSBC accepts that there was a delay in processing the transfer  of Child  1s CTF.  At the time 
it completed the transfer of Child 2s CTF at the end of July 2018  the value of each  unit in 
the CTF was £1.40. However,  by the time it completed the transfer of Child 2s CTF the 
value of each  unit had fallen to £1.362. Based on the number of units held by Child  1 HSBC 
calculated Child 1s loss at £157.53 and paid this to Child 1s new account.
Im satisfied that HSBC  acted fairly  here because it put Child  1s account into the position it 
would have been in had the transfer completed at the same time as Child 2.
Ref: DRN19242862Due to the delay Mr T says Child 1 CTF proceeds purchased a higher number of units  in 
their new account than would have been the case if the delay hadnt occurred. Im afraid I 
dont agree that HSBC should  compensate Child 2 for the financial benefit Child 1 received. I 
say this because, as Ive explained above, HSBC has already compensated Child 1 as Id 
expect it to by putting Child 1 into the position  they would have been in had the delay not 
occurred.
Im also satisfied that HSBC completed  the transfer of Child 2s CTF as requested - so 
theres no loss to Child 2. I think it was simply fortunate for Child 1 that - due to changes in 
market conditions  they were  able to buy more units in the new fund due to the delay.
I dont think HSBC acted  unfairly when it didnt contact Mr T before  it paid compensation to 
Child 1s new account. This is because I think its unlikely that any different outcome would 
have been achieved given that HSBC was required to, and did, compensate  Child 1 on the 
basis Id have expected it to do.
However, considering  the facts of this complaint, Im not sure I would have offered an award 
as high as £200 - so it follows that I will not be increasing this. Should Mr T wish to accept 
HSBCs compensatory offer of £200  Id expect HSBC to honour this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1924286