K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains Lloyds Bank plc keeps messing things up when she tried to put an 
arrangement in place,  which she needs because of her financial difficulties.
background
Ms T has a credit card account with Lloyds.  Unfortunately she is in financial difficulties and 
so has been trying to agree an arrangement. 
Lloyds has accepted there have been excessive delays in getting Ms T through  to the 
correct department. For this complaint it has paid her a total of £160 for the distress and 
inconvenience she suffered, and the call costs she incurred. Lloyds additionally refunded the 
interest accrued  on Ms Ts credit  card for August  2018. Lloyds also offered  to transfer Ms T 
to the correct department but it wasnt convenient for her at the time so in its final response 
letter to Ms T she was provided  with the contact  number  for its collections department  who 
could look into setting  up an affordable plan.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. In his view he noted  that Lloyds 
had on a number  of occasions  not charged  Ms T interest on the money she owed. He also 
noted that Lloyds had asked Ms T to complete an income and expenditure review and she 
had refused this. He understood  that Ms T would have found the time she had to wait on 
calls frustrating but he felt the compensation Lloyds had paid was fair. And he thought  that 
Lloyds not charging  interest and asking Ms T to complete  an income and expenditure  review  
was a fair response  to her financial difficulties. 
Ms T disagrees  she says she has had to pay a lot of interest  since last year when  she 
started calling  to put an arrangement in place. And when she called the number given to her 
in the final response  letter  she was again  unable to get through to the right person. She feels 
it would  be fair for all the interest to be frozen  and further compensation paid.  She feels  this 
has had a detrimental affect on her health.
The adjudicator responded by setting out the months when  interest wasnt  charged and that 
he didnt think Lloyds  was wrong to charge interest when it did. He urged Ms T to agree to 
an income and expenditure review and to keep trying to make  contact  with Lloyds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear that the challenges reaching  Lloyds have had a detrimental  effect  on Ms Ts 
health. Banks have  a duty to treat customers in financial difficulty positively and 
sympathetically and it is often when customers are in financial difficulty that they feel most 
vulnerable when dealing with a banks poor performance.
We do, however,  expect  a customer to work with a bank to help themselves. In this case  
Ms T hasnt provided Lloyds with the information it needs to allow  it properly to consider  how 
it can help. Like the adjudicator, I do urge her to agree to an income and expenditure review 
with the bank.
Ref: DRN10126122Overall  whilst  I think Lloyds  has let Ms T down  I think the compensation it has paid is fair 
particularly as Im mindful that if she had agreed to the review  earlier  then she probably 
wouldnt be making the calls.
I appreciate Ms T has lost confidence in Lloyds ability to work with her but I urge her to try 
again. If Ms T seeks to engage productively  with the bank and it again lets her down  she can 
return to this service.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1012612