K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Santander  UK Plc wrongly advised them  to invest  too much of 
their money in an unsuitably risky fund in 1996  and 1999.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 15 May 2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Santander disagreed with my findings, and said:
Given the length of time since Mr and Mrs H made these investments it does not 
have any point  of sale information;  but it is satisfied that they would  have received all 
the key information plus a full recommendations report
As theres no point  of sale information,  my provisional decision  is solely  based on Mr 
and Mrs Hs recollections from more  than 20 years ago - by definition this cannot be 
entirely reliable
If accounts were closed more than six years ago it no longer  holds  any records so 
cannot offer any information about what savings or investments  Mr and Mrs H may 
have held. The absence  of such information does not mean  they did not have any
Mr and Mrs H did not provide any documentation  about  their finances, retirement 
payments, new income or business profitability. However, they would both have 
received pensions from their employer  and Mrs H may have received a carers 
allowance
Mr H must have  been happy with the performance of his PEP as he visited the 
branch two/three years later to arrange  a further  £14,000 investment (jointly)
There is no evidence to indicate that they didnt understand  the risks
Mr Hs profession  meant he would have had the skill and attention to detail to 
understand the documentation and been capable of raising any questions  or 
concerns at the time (rather than 20 years later)
If Mr and Mrs H did not have any existing  savings  it seems unlikely they would  have 
taken early retirement and invested funds for a recommended minimum five year 
period, especially given Mr H was setting up a new business
Have they provided any information  as to why they surrendered their investment after 
three years? Its possible that this was just due to poor performance rather than a 
need for this money
Their representatives  comments  suggest they were able to absorb the losses; this 
contradicts his argument that they were encouraged  to invest  too much  money
A loss of £2,870 would have been  a significant amount, and theres no evidence  to 
show this loss did not affect them
Their representative  refused  to allow Mr and Mrs H to fill in its standard  
questionnaire. It therefore does  not know what they recall being told at the times of 
advice. Any decision is therefore based on very limited information
It still does not accept that this complaint should be considered within our jurisdiction 
given the size of their losses
In the light of Santanders comments, I asked Mr and Mrs Hs representative  to speak to 
them further about their overall finances at the time of the first advice point including their 
pension income.  I also wanted to know  how the subsequent meeting came  about, why they 
cancelled the investments  early, and to confirm  whether they had any prior investments.
Ref: DRN11596302Their representative  replied:
Mr H was receiving  around £1,200 a month  from his police pension; Mrs H was not 
receiving a carers allowance
They said that the meetings generally occurred as a result  of going into the branch 
for day-to-day activities and then being recommended to speak to an advisor;  but 
they cannot recall  the specific circumstances surrounding this second meeting
They cannot remember  the reasons for the withdrawal
They had no previous investment experience and are willing  to sign a document to 
that effect. Mrs H did hold some British  Gas shares from the original privatisation/ 
public offer
my findings
Firstly, I have considered Santanders repeated view that this complaint has been  made  too 
late under  our time rules.  A business is entitled to continue to raise  jurisdiction  objections  
even after an ombudsman  has made a ruling  that a complaint is within  our jurisdiction (as in 
this case).  
However, this is in order for it to raise new arguments or fresh  issues not to have a second  
bite of the cherry. From what  Ive read,  its current comments  are in essence the same as 
those it originally raised and which were  fully considered by the ombudsman  who made the 
decision that this complaint  was within jurisdiction. I have therefore not reconsidered the 
jurisdiction issue again at this stage as, in my view,  no new arguments have been  raised.
Ive then considered  all the new evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am still satisfied  that 
this complaint should be upheld - with the redress previously proposed.
I am satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr and Mrs H had no previous investment 
knowledge or experience (except  the British Gas shares) and therefore they would have 
been reliant on the advisor to fully explore  their propensity for risk and make  
recommendations accordingly. The fact that Mr H had been  employed in a responsible  job, 
requiring judgment and expertise does not alter this fact or mean he would have understood 
the risk posed by the recommended product.
Given this, I think it is more likely  than not  given their overall circumstances, finances and 
somewhat uncertain  income prospects  that Mr and Mrs H would have been looking to take 
no more than a modest  risk with their money.
That said,  I recognise that there is very little information about what was discussed, and a 
less than complete  picture of their finances. For these reasons, I am not convinced that there 
is sufficient to safely conclude that the 1996 advice was wrong - despite my concerns about 
the risks of the recommended  funds   given the modest sums involved.
However, for the reasons  previously outlined, I am satisfied that the 1999  advice more likely 
than not exposed the new investment sums to a greater risk than Mr and Mrs H would have 
wanted, or should have been advised to take.
Given their advisor said they did not want to take any risk with this money,  I think  it is 
reasonable to instruct  Santander  to pay compensation  based on a risk-free compensation 
formula. While there  is some argument that it might have been reasonable for Mr and Mrs H 
Ref: DRN11596303to have exposed  these sums, or a percentage  of them, to a small risk, neither party  has 
suggested this. So I dont think it is appropriate to award compensation on this basis.
I instruct Santander to pay compensation based  on what  Mr and Mrs H would  have earned  
on their ISA invested sums (totalling £14,000)  if they had kept this money in secure, interest-
guaranteeing bank accounts.  It should use the standard formula  recommended by this 
service i.e. the returns on the Bank  of Englands  fixed-rate bonds of 12 to 17 months  
maturity.
It should then add 8% simple interest  per annum  to these two loss figures  from the dates of 
surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Santander UK plc to pay compensation  as outlined 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
 
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN11596304provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Santander UK Plc wrongly advised them to invest  too much of their 
money in an unsuitably risky fund in 1996 and 1999.
background
In 1994 Mr H retired at the age of 50, taking  a £50,000 cash lump sum from his pension but then 
setting up in business himself. Mrs H had retired permanently.
Two years later Santander  recommended he invest £2,000 in a PEP plus £50 a month,  both in its UK 
Growth Fund.  In 1999 Mr and Mrs H agreed to invest approx. £7,000 each in the same fund within  an 
ISA. They closed all their accounts after three  years.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative complained that:
They  were first-time investors  and the recommended  fund was almost entirely exposed  to 
equities and was therefore  too risky for them
They  had used much of the lump sum for home improvements and were not left with sufficient 
residual savings  after the initial investment
Mr H invested £20,000  in his new business so the second advice resulted in the majority of 
their remaining money being in risk-based  assets
They  wanted to preserve the rest of their pension money so should not have been advised  to 
make any further  investments
Santander said that as these investments  had all been surrendered more  than six years ago it did not 
have more  than the basic paperwork about the sales. It did not have copies of fact finds, 
recommendation letters  etc. 
An adjudicator did not feel the advice had been obviously inappropriate, based on the limited 
information available.  She felt the sums were modest and that as Mr H was still in his early 50s and 
running a new business  he was likely to have sufficient ongoing  resources to be able make these  
modest investments.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative did not agree, and said that irrespective of its other complaint  points,  
the UK Growth Fund was clearly too risky for a first-time investor   something the adjudicator had not 
addressed.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise there is very limited information about the sales, something which  is understandable given 
the investments  were  cancelled many years ago. Nevertheless, I am satisfied that there is sufficient  
information to reach a fair and reasonable decision, based on the balance  of probabilities.
Santander has not disputed  that Mr and Mrs H had no investment experience or the various sums 
involved. I assume it has access to Mr and Mrs Hs bank accounts from the time,  and so if they had 
significantly more capital than suggested it would  have pointed this out.
Ref: DRN11596305On this basis I am not satisfied that the advice was reasonable given Mr and Mrs Hs limited capital, 
lack of investment  experience and likely  objectives, particularly given the level of risk posed by the 
fund in question.
On balance, I think  that - given the modest amounts involved - the 1996 advice  was not necessarily  
unreasonable, even taking account of the significant risk posed by the UK Growth Fund.  But the 1999 
advice seems to me to pose an unnecessary level of risk to Mr and Mrs Hs money, and Ive seen 
nothing to indicate that they wanted to take such a risk.
If Mr and Mrs H had something like £25,000, or less, in cash  at the time, I think  it was highly arguable 
whether they should have put nearly  £14,000 in any investments,  even low risk ones. While Mr H was 
only in his mid-fifties and had started a new business,  this could not have provided  a guarantee of a 
sufficient, medium-term income (unlike  his previous job). Given the precariousness of start-up 
businesses, its quite  possible that Mr and Mrs H wouldve needed to draw on some of his remaining  
pension pot cash in the near or medium-term future.
Crucially, I strongly  suspect  that Mr and Mrs H would  have been heavily reliant on the advisor as to 
what fund to invest  in. While they may have been drawn  to the attractions of an ISA-linked  investment 
and may have been prepared to take some risk with some  of their money, I doubt they would have 
understood the specific risks of this fund.
As their representative  said, it exposed virtually all of their money to the vagaries of the stock  market 
and the potential for it to fall very substantially  and by a far larger amount than they eventually lost.  
Given their overall circumstances  and likely objectives, I dont believe  this was appropriate advice.
While Mr and Mrs Hs representative says, or implies, they didnt  want to take any risk with this 
money, I think they would have been aware that they were committing to a risk-based investment. So 
it is not clear to me whether, if fully and fairly  advised, they would have invested any of this money  in 
a product where they could lose some of it.
I note that they surrendered  these  ISAs  and Mr Hs earlier investment within three years of 1999. This 
suggests they may not have been able to afford to commit  so much of their capital  (after the earlier 
investment) to what needed to be considered as a medium-term investment.  
So, on balance,  I believe  it is appropriate to instruct Santander to pay compensation  based on what 
Mr and Mrs H would have earned  on their ISA invested sums if they had kept their money  in secure, 
interest-guaranteeing bank accounts. It should use the standard formula recommended by this 
service i.e. the returns on the Bank of Englands fixed-rate  bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity.
It should then add 8% simple interest per annum  to these two loss figures  from the dates of surrender 
to the date of settlement of this complaint,
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Santander UK plc to pay compensation  as 
outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1159630