K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  Sainsburys Bank Plc blocked her credit card whilst she was overseas and 
this caused her inconvenience  and unnecessary  costs.
background
Miss S brought her complaint to us as she was unhappy with Sainsburys response to her 
complaint. They apologised  for the service Miss S received when shed contacted  them from 
overseas. Sainsburys  said her card was declined on 23 June 2018 for three transactions 
and their records showed that her PIN had been  blocked due to being entered  incorrectly  on 
three consecutive attempts. Sainsburys said they should have  advised  Miss S she could 
only unblock her PIN at an ATM in the UK. They said her experience  would be shared with 
their head  office  to ensure  they learned  from it. Sainsburys  offered Miss S £50 for the 
misinformation given  when she called and asked her to inform them  of any call costs  which  
they would  review as they were keen to ensure  she wasnt out of pocket for any costs  
incurred. Miss S declined  the offer. 
Sainsburys told us they hadnt sent out a new PIN to Miss S. So our investigator wasnt  
convinced that Miss S didnt know her PIN otherwise she wouldnt have been able to unblock 
the card herself  - as she did on 14 July 2018  at an ATM in the UK - using that existing PIN. 
Our investigator considered and calculated the detriment to Miss S in terms of the charges 
for foreign usage and the loss of interest  on money in her account  which  she thought  
equated to roughly no more than £35. She also agreed there wouldve been inconvenience  
to Miss S by paying the money from her current account rather  than on her Sainsburys 
credit card. But she thought the £50 already  offered by Sainsburys covered the approximate 
loss and didnt  think it would be proportionate to award anymore. And the investigator asked 
for Sainsburys to arrange for that payment to be processed if it hadnt already been  paid to 
Miss S.
Miss S didnt agree, she felt the investigator hadnt addressed all elements of her complaint. 
And she questioned whether the investigator  had actually listened to all the calls shed made  
to Sainsburys.  Sainsburys  told us they had no reason to doubt their records  showing 
excessive PIN attempts and didnt agree that they should be liable for the costs of 
approximately £35. They remained of the view that the £50 offered as a direct  apology for 
misinformation on a call to be fair and reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the view 
that Sainsburys have  already responded  reasonably to it. Ill explain why I think that.
I appreciate it is frustrating when a card doesnt  work as expected. And I can understand 
Miss S wants answers as to why she was given incorrect information when she called on 
from overseas, along with the precise times  and places where shes supposed to have  
entered the wrong PIN. But Im afraid even if we did have the answers  to those  questions  it 
wouldnt change my view on this complaint overall. Thats because,  like the investigator,  I 
think the compensation already offered by Sainsburys  covers the approximated loses and 
the inconvenience Miss S has sustained whatever the reason for the block.  And its in line 
with the sort of award  I would  have made  in these circumstances had the business not 
Ref: DRN17982372already offered it. Our investigator has already given a breakdown of the approximated 
losses in her view so I wont  repeat  them here but confirm I agree with them. 
Id expect Sainsburys to now process payment of the £50 compensation offered promptly 
once Miss S confirms her preference as to how that payment is made  Sainsburys gave 
options to credit her bank  account, a cheque, vouchers for Sainsbury's  supermarket or 
loyalty card points. I understand  Miss S feels strongly about what happened. But my 
decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with Sainsburys 
informally  can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints Miss S.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1798237