K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that when he made a claim on his legal expenses  insurance policy,  LAMP 
Insurance Company Limited  wouldnt  pay all the disbursements incurred by his solicitors 
during the legal claim.
background
Mr F took out an After  the Event insurance  policy to provide  cover  for his legal fees for a 
claim he wanted to bring against a third party. The claim was concluded and his solicitors  
asked LAMP to pay the fees covered by the policy. LAMP paid some of the fees requested 
but didnt agree to pay for Mr Fs medical fees without  a full breakdown of these.
The solicitors had used  a medical agency to obtain  the medical reports  needed  as part of the 
claim. The solicitor provided  invoices  from the medical agency for charges amounting to 
around £1,300.
As LAMP didnt  agree  to pay these fees, Mr F asked our service to investigate his complaint. 
His solicitors raised a number of points on his behalf, including:
The only question is whether the medical agency  fees were reasonably and properly 
incurred. Due to the nature of the claim a medical report would be needed.  The policy 
also confirms the need for a medical report. So the medical report  was reasonable. 
And as a report was provided, its reasonable to pay for it.
The invoices provided are in line with other medical agencies, and other underwriters 
have accepted similar invoices. LAMP  has been  invited to provide evidence to 
dispute that the costs were reasonable.
A medical agency was required to help with arranging  the medical report close  to the 
clients location. They also allow a deferred payment arrangement which  wouldnt be 
possible if the experts were instructed directly.
Our investigator didnt  dispute that it was reasonable to get medical  evidence.  But she said 
LAMP was entitled  to request evidence of the actual costs incurred and without a breakdown 
of those costs, it wasnt possible to say if they were reasonable. So if Mr Fs solicitors could 
provide a more  detailed  breakdown shed expect  LAMP to consider it. But on the basis of the 
information provided she thought it was reasonable for LAMP not to pay the fees.
Mr Fs solicitors didnt  agree and requested an ombudsmans decision. They have provided 
further comments. Ive summarised some of these as follows:
They originally claimed these costs in 2015 and LAMP  didnt make  it clear further 
information was needed; by the time LAMP  requested further details  the information  
was no longer available.
Its unfair to say Mr F could have complained earlier.
The definition of disbursements in the policy terms doesnt  set a limit or any 
requirements for pre-approval. Theyd  like me to consider the independent evidence 
they have provided from another insurer and medical agencies  about what  is 
reasonable and proper.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN18563722The policy terms say LAMP will pay disbursements  that are reasonably  and properly 
incurred in pursuing  the claim.  Theres no dispute  that it was reasonable to obtain medical 
evidence  Mr F needed it to pursue his legal  case.  And its reasonable to expect there will 
be some  fees for this. The issue is not whether its reasonable to pay for medical evidence, 
but whether the amount  being claimed  is reasonable. It wouldnt be fair to expect an insurer 
to pay whatever is charged, however much it is. LAMP  is entitled  to check how the fees have 
been incurred,  to decide whether the amount being claimed is reasonable.
Although Mr Fs solicitors have  provided  some details about the charges, there  isnt a 
detailed breakdown. For example, they dont  say how much time has been spent, how many  
letters sent or how many phone calls made.
I know the claim was made  some  time ago and Mr F waited quite a long time before hearing  
from LAMP. His solicitors have said they cant get a further breakdown without further cost. I 
dont think this means the information shouldnt be provided. They  would have been aware 
of the risk of the insurer scrutinising the costs being claimed  when they decided  to use a 
medical agency. So its reasonable to expect them to obtain details if they want  LAMP to 
consider these costs.  And Mr F could have  complained sooner, if he wished.
I also appreciate the solicitors have said the fees are comparable  with other medical 
agencies and other underwriters have accepted those levels of fees. But I have to look at 
this particular case. The amount of work needed may be different in each case. So whats 
charged in another case doesnt necessarily  help decide what  was reasonable in this case. 
Ive considered evidence they have provided  from another insurer.  Although they say they 
wouldnt tend to question  fees like this, that doesnt necessarily mean they would never 
question them. In any event, the fact that another insurer might  not seek  such a detailed 
breakdown doesnt mean LAMP cant do so. Where someone is asking their insurer to pay 
large sums of money for disbursements,  I think its reasonable to provide evidence  of how 
those disbursements  have been  calculated. 
In these circumstances I agree that its reasonable for LAMP to request a breakdown. If 
thats provided, Id expect  LAMP to consider it. But as it stands, my view is that LAMPs 
decision not to pay the disbursements is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1856372