K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  about charges NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua has applied  to her credit card 
account and how its dealt with her following her financial and health difficulties.
background
Miss K says she paid £750 towards  her Aqua credit card balance but its not been cleared 
due to charges  that have been incorrectly applied. She says that for the whole of 2017 Aqua 
had agreed that charges wouldnt be applied to her account and that she sent it details of 
her medical position in 2018 as well as in 2016.  Miss K says she was told a payment in 
February 2018 of £50 would be taken off the balance but the full amount wasnt.  And that 
overall shes been treated badly by Aqua.
Aqua says its tried to help Miss K over the last few years.  It says in 2016 it applied  a block 
to the account  which  stopped some charges and interest and it took into account her medical 
position. It also says in late 2017  it agreed  an arrangement with Miss K but she didnt keep 
to the terms of it. Aqua says it asked Miss K in 2018  for information about her medical 
position and didnt receive a response. But during that time placed a hold on interest and 
charges being  applied.  It says its tried to help and support Miss K but sold her debt to a third 
party company in June 2018.
Miss K brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought Aqua had acted  positively 
and sympathetically  towards her. The investigator thought Aqua had placed a medical block  
on the account in 2018 and 2016  to help Miss K. But she hadnt provided it with any medical 
evidence in 2018 and so had acted fairly  by removing  it and making the decision to sell the 
debt.
Miss K didnt accept  that view and said she had sent the medical information to Aqua. She 
also says she was told by it that charges and interest may appear on her account  statements 
but she wouldnt have  to pay them.
The investigator listened to the call about  the £50 and thought that the £50 did come off the 
balance but there was a late payment fee of £12. She also thought that all payments 
appeared accounted for.
Miss K has asked that an ombudsman review that decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for largely  the same reasons.
Ive looked at Aquas records over the last few years  and listened to all of the available calls 
between the parties  from 2017 to 2018.  Having done I accept that this has been  a difficult  
period of time for Miss K as far as her health  and finances are concerned.  In those 
circumstances I would  expect a business  to treat its customer  both positively and 
sympathetically. And Im satisfied that Aqua has done so here.
I can see that in 2016  Aqua fairly took account  of Miss Ks medical position and placed a 
block on the account which I think was designed to help her. I can see that Miss K asked for 
Ref: DRN14010652that to be removed when she recovered. Im also satisfied that Aqua took other steps  to help 
Miss Ks position at that time by refunding or not charging late payment fees.
I appreciate Miss K says that she believes her account was on hold for the whole  of 2017 
and that she shouldnt have been  charged fees or interest. But having listened  to the calls 
and looked at Aquas records I find that wasnt the case. Im satisfied that during the calls in 
the early part of 2017 Miss K was aware  that charges are being  applied and on one occasion  
accepts that she asked her daughter to make  a payment which she didnt. Im satisfied an 
agreement was reached in October 2017  but Miss K didnt keep to the terms of it which led 
to charges and interest being  applied.
In March 2018 I can see that Aqua  asked  Miss K for a medical pack  to be completed  and 
returned to it. It stopped  any interest  and charges whilst it waited  for it. I appreciate  Miss K 
says she returned  it and has proof of that but she hasnt provided  that proof to us or given 
Aqua a copy of it. So I dont think Aqua  acted  unfairly in May 2018  by removing the medical  
block and making  arrangements to sell the debt.
Overall Im satisfied Aqua has tried to help and support Miss K. Ive not seen any evidence 
that charges or interest have been incorrectly applied or payments havent been  used  
correctly. As Aqua no longer  owns the debt I hope  Miss K will approach the new company 
and try and agree any repayment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1401065