K821x#15complaint
Ms H says Oakam Ltd irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 2 payday loans Oakam provided to Ms H between 15 November 
2013 and 2 December 2015.  Loan 1 was refinanced  with further  loans four times. Ms Hs 
borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Number
Start date of 
loanLoan amount  
(rounded)End date of 
loanMaximum monthly repayment
Terms of 
agreement in 
weeks
1 15/11/2013 £200 04/01/2014 £94 17
1a 04/01/2014 £292 11/04/2014 £80 26
1b 11/04/2014 £396 01/07/2014 £87 39
1c 01/07/2014 £565 10/12/2014 £103 52
1d 10/12/2014 £664 01/12/2015 £104 52
2 02/12/2015 £1,000 09/06/2016 £103 52
Ms H complained the loans had been made  irresponsibly as she had other  loans running;  
she had trouble paying the loans and found  the high interest rate stressful.
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Hs complaint and thought loan 2 shouldnt have been given. 
Neither Ms H nor Oakam  made any comments about loan 1, so I will not be looking at that 
loan in this final decision.
Oakam disagreed  that loan 2 should  be upheld and it asked for the matter to be looked  at 
again. Oakam added it had checked  Ms Hs income, expenditure and bank statements; there  
hadnt been any missed payments on the previous  agreements and the loan had been 
repaid in full and on time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN16690072the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Oakam  was required to establish  
whether Ms H could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan 2 would most likely  have shown  
that Ms H:
omay have had difficulty repaying  previous  loans  and
ohad problems managing her money.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Oakams  lending history with Ms H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Oakam should  reasonably have seen that further lending  
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so I think Oakam should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided loan 2. Given the particular circumstances of Ms Hs case, I say this 
because:
At this point Oakam ought to have realised Ms H was not managing to repay their 
loans sustainably. Ms H had refinanced loan 1 four times  within  14 months  and Ms H 
had been indebted  to Oakam for around  two years in total. So Oakam ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Ms H was having to borrow  further  to cover the 
hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Ms Hs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ms Hs first loan was for £200  and loan 2 was for £1,000. At this point Oakam  ought 
to have known  that Mr H was not likely  borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in 
their income but to meet an ongoing need.  
Ms H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Oakam.  Loan 2 was 
taken out around two years after Ms Hs first. And it was for a larger amount. Ms H 
Ref: DRN16690073had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Oakam over an 
extended period.
I think that Ms H lost out because Oakam continued to provide borrowing with loan 2 
because:
This loan had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Ms Hs indebtedness  by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Ms H borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost  loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 2 and Oakam should put things right.
putting things right  what Oakam Ltd needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms H paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
All entries about loan 2 should  be removed from Ms Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Oakam Ltd 
must give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Hs complaint. Oakam Ltd should 
put things right for Ms H as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1669007