K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Paragon Finance PLC didnt  treat them fairly when they had 
financial difficulties and missed payments for their secured loan. 
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a secured  loan in 2008. The loan was sold to Paragon  in June 2014. 
Mr and Mrs S say Paragon hasnt told them what it paid for the loan. They say it applied  
excessive interest and charges and bombarded them with letters,  messages and phone 
calls. Mr and Mrs S say Paragon didnt agree a final settlement  figure. As a result they had 
to enter  individual voluntary arrangements (IVA). Paragon  didnt  agree  to be part of the IVA 
and Mr and Mrs S say this is unfair and has affected  their well being and credit rating. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said:
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about  the sale of the loan by the original lender will be dealt 
with separately.  Here,  shed deal with Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about how Paragon 
dealt with them after it bought  the loan in 2014.
Mr and Mrs S missed  payments  soon after Paragon  bought  the loan. Paragon offered 
payment arrangements  and reduced the loan interest rate. Mr and Mrs S didnt maintain 
payments. 
As Mr and Mrs S hadnt made a payment since April 2016 it was reasonable for Paragon  
to contact them to try to agree  an affordable payment arrangement. It was entitled to ask 
them to complete up to date income  and expenditure  forms.
Paragon didnt have  to agree to the secured  loan being included in the IVA. 
Mr and Mrs S chose  to enter  IVAs  which affected their credit rating. Paragon wasnt 
responsible for this.
Mr and Mrs S agreed the interest rate when they took out the loan. Paragon  hadnt 
increased the interest rate. 
Paragon doesnt  have to provide the documents related to the loan transfer or 
information about what it paid. The loan terms didnt  change.
Paragon said Mr and Mrs S hadnt  raised their complaint with it about the settlement 
figure. If they still want a settlement  figure, they should contact Paragon.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree. Mr S said they fell into arrears  because he was unemployed for 
four years. He said they have a right to know what the loan was sold for as this affects them  
and their children.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
Ref: DRN18296582words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs S have  financial  difficulties. They say this has affected their wellbeing and they 
feel under  constant  pressure. I do sympathise  with their situation. But my role here is to 
consider whether Paragon has made  an error or acted  unreasonably. 
When Mr and Mrs S took out the loan in 2008  they agreed to the terms. The loan was 
transferred to Paragon  in 2014. But the terms of the loan didnt change.  
The transfer was of a number of loans and its unlikely they were valued  individually.  The 
price paid by Paragon is commercially  sensitive. I cant reasonably  require Paragon  to 
provide this information to Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S have  been in financial hardship since Paragon acquired the loan. Id expect 
Paragon to treat customers in financial  difficulties fairly. This includes asking  them for 
information about their circumstances so it can consider how it can help.  
Paragon asked Mr and Mrs S for income  and expenditure information.  Mr and Mrs S say it 
asked them for updated  information  every few months. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S found 
this upsetting. But circumstances can change. I think it was reasonable for Paragon to ask 
for information about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances and ensure its up to date. It needs this 
information to ensure  any payment arrangement it offers  is affordable.
Paragon offered payment arrangements to Mr and Mrs S. It reduced the interest  rate on their 
loan  at times to zero  to help them. I think Paragon  acted  fairly.   
Mr and Mrs S didnt  maintain payments. They say they feel bombarded  by Paragons letters,  
phone calls and messages. A field agent  appointed by Paragon visited the property. Being 
contacted about the loan upsets Mr and Mrs S. But payments havent  been made for some 
time. I think its reasonable  for Paragon  to try to get in contact with Mr and Mrs S about  the 
loan.
Paragons loan is secured on Mr and Mrs Ss property. So it can, ultimately, seek  to recover  
the debt from the proceeds of the sale of the property. It was entitled to decide whether or 
not to give its consent to the loan being included in the IVA. 
Lenders have to report accurate and up to date information to the credit reference  agencies. 
Mr and Mrs S are in arrears with their secured loan (and, presumably, other debts)  and have 
entered IVAs.  This has affected  their credit rating. But Mr and Mrs S havent said that the 
information Paragon  recorded about the loan is incorrect.  And Paragon isnt responsible  for 
Mr and Mrs Ss decision  to enter  into IVAs or information recorded by other lenders. 
Overall, I dont  think Paragon has treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly. 
Paragon says if Mr and Mrs S want to discuss a settlement of the loan they should contact it 
to confirm the settlement figure and the source  of the funds. 
Ref: DRN18296583my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1829658