K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains the vehicle he acquired on finance  provided by Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services UK Limited was not of satisfactory  quality. He wants  to reject the vehicle.
background
Mr H tells us he acquired  the vehicle in February 2016. He says that in June 2016 he 
complained to the dealer  about a rattling noise.  He says he was told this was a design 
issue. And he says that the vehicle has consistently suffered from abnormal tyre wear - and 
has required  several replacements.  He says the rattling  noise has got worse as time has 
passed. After continued  problems he says he decided in July 2018 that hed lost faith in the 
vehicle and issues were  not likely to be fixed. Mr H says he then ordered a new vehicle 
(using the existing  vehicle  as part-exchange) - but his application  for finance  was declined  so 
the deal couldnt proceed.
As a result Mr H says he decided he wanted  to reject the vehicle and complained  to 
Mercedes. Mr H says he doesnt  accept the view put forward  by Mercedes that the tyre wear 
was possibly due to potholes or driving style.  And he says Mercedes told him the dealer 
accepted it had twice carried out wheel-alignment checks - but hadnt been  able to identify 
the cause of the uneven  tyre wear.
Mercedes told us the first visit Mr H had made to the retailer was 18 months after hed 
acquired the vehicle.  It said repairs had been carried out to remedy a rattle  from the 
Command Screen and rear interior trims. Following this it said Mr H had returned  with further 
issues including other rattles  and uneven tyre wear. Mercedes said the dealer had been 
unable to find fault with the vehicle and said the issues were due to driving style/ external 
influences, not a manufacturing  defect.  It said that - as the first rattle did not present itself 
until 18 months into the agreement - it felt if it had existed at the point of supply it was 
reasonable to expect  it would have presented much sooner.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She didnt think there 
was enough evidence to show what the causes of the problems were. She saw there had 
been issues with the tyres  and that the tracking had been found  to be faulty. But the reason  
for this hadnt been identified. And she said common reasons for wheel misalignment were 
external influences such as heavy impact  with potholes or kerbs.
But our investigator did find that Mr H had raised the issue  of the rattling  sounds in June 
2016. And not after 18 months as Mercedes  had indicated. She said shed seen a report 
which made reference to vehicle interior noises localize. As she didnt think this had been 
looked into at the time she asked Mercedes to arrange an independent  vehicle inspection.  
But she says when  the inspection was about to be carried  out it was discovered the vehicle  
was not covered by a valid MOT certificate. And as the inspection would have required a 
road test it was not possible to go ahead. She said Mr H wasnt willing to have this MOT 
arranged. As she couldnt  determine what the causes of the faults were she wasnt in a 
position to say Mercedes should repair the vehicle or allow  Mr H to reject it.
Mr H didnt accept the outcome  and said he was willing for the MOT to be carried out - just 
he wasnt prepared to drive the vehicle. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint  an 
ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
Ref: DRN19555282my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr H didnt get the degree of enjoyment and satisfaction from this vehicle that 
hed anticipated  when he acquired  it.
Ive also considered a copy  of a letter from solicitors who are now representing Mr H. 
Although this was addressed to Mercedes  it was copied to this service in the hope that this 
issue can be resolved  in a swift and amicable  fashion. 
The letter summarises the history of the various  faults and it alleges Mercedes is in breach 
of contract. It goes  on to seek damages - and advises that Mr H considers the agreement 
terminated - having  stopped using the vehicle in October and ceased  to making repayments 
from December.
In the light of this I think it might be helpful if I explain our approach to trying  to resolve the 
complaints we deal with. And I should  make it clear that this service  is an informal  resolution 
service and not a like for like alternative  to a court. We are required to make decisions on 
the basis of rules laid down in statute  and by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).  In 
particular under the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP).
DISP 3.6.1: The ombudsman will determine  a complaint by reference to what is, in his
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4 In considering  what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case,
the ombudsman  will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations
(b) regulators rules, guidance  and standards
(c) codes of practice and
(2) (where appropriate)  what  he considers  to have been good industry practice  at the
relevant time.
So its not for me to decide  if theres been a breach of contract by Mercedes or to determine 
if Mr Hs purported repudiation of the agreement is valid. That would  require a court  to make 
such findings.
Here there was a report of a rattling noise which  seems to have arisen after about four 
months of supply. Ordinarily where theres a fault at this time the supplier is offered the 
chance to repair it. Failing  which the customer is permitted  to reject the vehicle if the 
unrepaired fault means the vehicle is not of satisfactory quality. I cant  see this rattling 
noise was ever satisfactorily  explained - but it seems Mr H didnt  fully pursue this at the time.  
And in the absence  of any evidence as to causation - its not possible to say if the noise 
came from an inherent defect or some other cause - such as an external object having found  
its way inside the vehicle.
Ref: DRN19555283Whilst other complaints  were made,  the timeline  provided by Mr H suggests  that for the most  
part these related to issues  with the tyres. Between December 2016 and September 2017, 
Mr H described  four occasions  of either  excess  wear  or tyre failure. I understand these  were  
dealt with by the dealer. And issues were found  with the tracking - which  was repaired under 
warranty.
Mr H says he again asked, in September 2017,  for the rattling  noise to be investigated. But 
he says he cant recall  the exact  diagnosis he was given. The relevant  warranty invoice 
refers to work on the doors and interior trim - but it isnt entirely clear if this was related to the 
rattling noise.
Mr H reports further issues  with excessive  tyre wear  in June  and July 2018 by which time he 
says hed lost faith in the vehicle and decided  to try and exchange it. Subsequently the 
finance for the replacement vehicle fell through and he says he then tried - without success  - 
to reject his current vehicle.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in combination with our 
fair and reasonable remit. Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some 
of it is here - I make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities.
In the absence of an independent report its hard to know exactly  whats been happening  
with this vehicle.  It certainly  appears  to have had more than its fair share of problems with 
the tyres  and/or tracking. But these are normally considered to be wear  and tear issues.  
That is to say all vehicles  - in the course of a normal service  life - will routinely require 
replacement tyres from time to time and checks and/or adjustments to tracking.  And the 
frequency of such replacements  and maintenance will vary considerably  from one vehicle to 
another. And it will also be significantly affected by external factors such  as mileage, terrain 
and driving style.
I do not consider  there is any persuasive evidence  which leads me to conclude  there  was an 
inherent fault with the vehicle at the time of supply which caused the issues with the tyres. 
And as the repairs were  mostly covered by warranty or gestures of goodwill  I cant say 
Mercedes has acted  unfairly in this respect.  
Whilst Mr H sought to reject the vehicle  in July 2018 - by that time he needed to show that 
the vehicle had not been of satisfactory  quality when supplied.  Whilst thered been the report 
of the rattling  noise  in the early months following supply - I think  this is too ambiguous to 
allow me to say that - in the absence of an independent report  identifying the cause - it 
meant the vehicle was not of satisfactory  quality when supplied.
Its unfortunate that - due to the absence of a MOT certificate - it wasnt possible to examine 
and road test the vehicle. Ive checked on the relevant government website which  indicates  
the vehicle is still without an MOT certificate  - although it appears to have  valid road fund 
licence.
Ref: DRN19555284But I cant hold Mercedes  responsible for this as its up to Mr H to ensure that the vehicle is 
maintained in good condition and complies  with relevant legislation  ( insurance, road tax and 
MOT, if required) when being used on the road. Equally, I acknowledge that if Mr H has 
purported to terminate  the agreement - he wont want to incur any further expense  or take 
any action which might appear to contradict this intention. So it seems  theres  an impasse 
which is unlikely to be resolved informally.
Im aware that Mercedes  has issued a notice of default and has indicated it may seek to 
repossess the vehicle.  And I further understand that Mr H has no wish to retain it. Im not 
aware at the time of writing if the vehicle remains with Mr H or not. But that does not affect  
my decision.
In summary,  I do not think it would  be fair and reasonable for me to conclude  this vehicle 
was not of satisfactory when supplied. Therefore Im not requiring Mercedes to allow Mr H to 
reject it. And whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr H Im not upholding this 
complaint.
It remains open to Mr H - if he does not accept my decision - to take such  further action  as 
he sees fit. And as he is now represented by solicitors  I assume  he will be guided  by them.
But - irrespective of whether it is accepted  or not - my decision brings to an end the 
involvement of this service in this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1955528