K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a store  
card.
A retailer sold the store card and PPI, but AXA France IARD, the insurer, has accepted  
responsibility for the way the policy was sold.
background
In July 1994, Ms S applied for a store card. At the same time, she was sold PPI.
Ms S thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint  but didnt  think it should be upheld. In particular, 
our adjudicator didnt  think  Ms S had ever been charged anything for PPI  so she hadnt 
lost out.
Ms S didnt agree. She feels the business should  be held accountable for the sale of the 
policy.
As Ms S was still dissatisfied, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about PPI should  be upheld, Id 
expect any compensation to put the consumer in the financial position  theyd  be in if they 
hadnt bought the policy.
The PPI was attached to a store card. So any premiums would be charged to the account, 
and Ms S would repay these extra charges, with interest, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the card.
But in Ms Ss case, it doesnt look as though AXA ever charged  any premiums to her card. 
AXA has told us that the PPI started  on 28 July 1994, and was cancelled  on 
9 September 1994, around  six weeks later. Its records show  that no premiums were charged  
to the account  during this period. Ms S hasnt been able to show she paid anything  towards  
this policy  either. This means that even if something  had gone wrong when the retailer  sold 
Ms S the policy, Ms S hasnt lost out financially  because of this.
Ive thought about what Ms S has said about this. She doesnt think this is fair. She feels  that 
AXA fraudulently added  the PPI to her account,  and AXA should be punished for this. She 
asks me to take them to task.
Though I can understand why Ms S might  feel this way, this doesnt change  what  Id expect 
AXA to do to put things right. In particular,  any award Id make is not designed to punish the 
business but to reflect  the impact its actions had on the customer. Ms S never  paid anything  
towards the insurance - she hasnt lost out.
Ref: DRN16579042As Ms S never paid anything towards the PPI, she hasnt lost out financially  because of the 
sale of the policy.  I dont uphold her complaint and I dont  an award.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1657904