K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold  them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr and Mrs H have been represented throughout their complaint.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2003.  They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy. The policy covered them for accident,  sickness and unemployment with a 
maximum claim benefit of up to 12 months  per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest has shown  us copies of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage paperwork. Within the mortgage 
application that Mr and Mrs H have completed, signed and returned to NatWest, there is a 
section called Mortgage Repayments Protector.
Under this it states,  Do you want Mortgage  Repayments Protector (PPI). There is a pre-
printed Yes  and it also states under who to be covered, For You and Your Partner. And 
£400 was the amount chosen  to be protected.
Alongside the mortgage application  form Mr and Mrs H also received a Mortgage 
Quotation. This is a one page  document that sets out the details of the borrowing. On this it 
document it states: Mortgage Repayments  Protector Premium  (Optional) £16.90 .
A separate  PPI application form and direct debit mandate  also had to be completed which  
Mr and Mrs H have signed.  Within  this Mr and Mrs H chose the level of benefit required and 
that it was to jointly cover them. 
So overall, after taking  everything into consideration, I think  NatWest made Mr and Mrs H 
aware that that it was an optional insurance  and they had a choice  about  buying the PPI. 
And Mr and Mrs H chose  to take it at the level they required.
Ref: DRN15874032I havent seen  anything to suggest NatWest assessed Mr and Mrs Hs individual  
circumstances such as their employee  benefits  or any other insurance policies Mr and Mrs H 
held and from this provided a tailored  recommendation for PPI. So, on balance,  I think this 
was most likely a non-advised sale. This means  NatWest didnt have to make sure the policy 
was right for them. But it had to provide  Mr and Mrs H with enough information so they could 
make an informed choice  as to whether to take the policy.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have  been. But Im satisfied  that they likely  chose to take out the PPI - so it looks 
like they wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they 
were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it could have been 
useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.  
Mr and Mrs H say that had been  employed  for a lengthy time and both received a good level 
of sick pay from their respective employers.  So Mr and Mrs H say they didnt need the policy.
But taking a mortgage is a large, long term financial commitment. If repayments arent met 
borrowers stand to lose their home. The PPI would have covered the mortgage repayments  
for up to 12 months for each claim if Mr and Mrs H were unable to work because of sickness 
or if they lost their jobs.  All things  considered,  I think the policy provided a useful benefit. 
After taking everything into consideration, I dont think  Mr and Mrs Hs PPI policy  was mis-
sold.
what else have I considered?
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
It referred to a two-step  approach. 
The first was that a business should  look to see whether a policy was mis-sold and whether 
the consumer  would  not otherwise have bought  the policy they did. 
And if the policy wasnt mis-sold, the second  step was to look to see whether  the level of 
undisclosed commission (and profit share) received by the business  created an unfair 
relationship between the consumer and the business.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
NatWest has said that the level of commission  and profit share  it received  for Mr and Mrs Hs 
PPI policy  was under 50%. So it says that it doesnt need to do anything.
NatWest recently wrote  out to Mr and Mrs H explaining the levels of commission (and profit 
share) it received over the duration of Mr and Mrs Hs policy. I can see that NatWest never 
received more than 50% of the premium as commission and profit share.
Ref: DRN15874033Having looked  at this, I agree, NatWest doesnt  have to refund Mr and Mrs H anything  as 
the level of commission  and profit share  it received was under 50%. 
I note that Mr and Mrs H are concerned because in some years  especially  the earlier years 
that they held the policy, NatWest received 47.30% in commission.  But the rules state that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. So despite  it being  close to 50%, it wasnt over 50%. So I think  
NatWest has applied  the rules it must follow, correctly.
Mr and Mrs H also had a concern that NatWest could have just provided the percentage 
figure  and it isnt based on any evidence. I know that Mr and Mrs H feel strongly about 
their whole complaint  including the level of commission and profit  share NatWest received,  
but I disagree that it just provided  a percentage number.  Ill explain why. 
The FCA provided guidance to businesses on how it should  evidence what  it received as 
commission and profit share. So Id like to assure Mr and Mrs H that from what  we know and 
have seen of how NatWest has been working  out the commission  and profit share it 
received, were satisfied  that it is working it out correctly. 
Overall, I am satisfied NatWest has applied  the rules it must follow, correctly.  And while  Ive 
thought about whether theres  anything about  Mr and Mrs Hs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means NatWest  should do something different, I dont think there is. So 
Lloyds doesnt  need to do anything  further  in Mr and Mrs Hs case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold.
As the level of commission  and profit  share National Westminster Bank Plc received for 
Mr and Mrs Hs premiums wasnt more than 50% of the PPI premium,  National Westminster 
Bank Plc doesnt  need to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1587403