K822xcomplaint
Mrs I has complained about the advice to switch some of the funds in her Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP),  into another SIPP and then invest  into Harlequin, an unregulated 
overseas property investment. She believes  that LP Financial Management Limited  (LP) 
facilitated this switch and investment and is responsible  for the advice she was given. She 
believes this advice was unsuitable and had led to her investing  in a high risk unregulated 
investment which  has since failed. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 2 December 2020.  A copy  is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  In the provisional decision I set out why I was intending to uphold the 
complaint.
LP made no further submissions. Mrs I accepted  the provisional decision and made  no 
further submissions.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing in mind that I have not received any further  submissions, my decision remains  as 
set out in the attached  provisional decision.  I uphold the complaint.
fair compensation
I set out in the provisional decision how compensation should be calculated. To confirm:  
what should  LP do?
To compensate Mrs I fairly, LP must:
Compare the performance of Mrs I's investment with that of the benchmark  shown.  If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
LP should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, LP should pay into Mrs I's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation  and any interest.  The amount  paid should allow for the 
effect of charges  and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If LP is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs I's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to her. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs I's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. 
Ref: DRN19096532For example, if Mrs I is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs I would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mrs I £250 for the inconvenience  and upset caused by the losses she has 
incurred and the issues caused  by the illiquidity of the investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If LP deducts  income  tax from the 
interest, it should  tell Mrs I how much has been  taken off. LP should  give Mrs I a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. LP 
should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to 
the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as I set out above.
If LP is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. LP may require that Mrs I provides an undertaking to pay LP any 
amount she may receive from the investment  in the future. That undertaking must allow for 
any tax and charges  that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension  plan. LP 
will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN19096533Any additional sum that Mrs I paid into the investment should be added to the fair value  
calculation at the point it was actually  paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if LP totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at the 
end instead of deducting periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs I wanted capital  growth and was willing  to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs I's circumstances  and risk attitude.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and order LP Financial Management Limited to calculate and pay 
compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN19096534copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mrs I has complained about  the advice to switch some of the funds in her Self-Invested  Personal 
Pension (SIPP),  into another SIPP and then invest into Harlequin, an unregulated  overseas property 
investment. She believes  that LP Financial Management  Limited (LP) facilitated  this switch and 
investment and is responsible for the advice  she was given. She believes this advice was unsuitable 
and had led to her investing in a high risk unregulated  investment which has since failed. 
background
In 2012, Mrs I switched about £16,000 of the money she held her existing SIPP (a DP Pensions 
SIPP) into a new SIPP  (a Lifetime SIPP). Mrs I says she was advised to do this by an individual I will 
refer to as Mr H. At the time Mr H was a Director of LP and also a Director of a business called 
Atlantic Partnership LLP (Atlantic), an unregulated  company. Mrs I had previously dealt  with Mr H in 
his capacity  as a Director of LP - who advised her on an earlier pension switch.  
Mrs I signed  the SIPP application form on 21 August 2012. The pension switch  was processed and 
funds transferred in October 2012.
The Harlequin  investment has since become illiquid and Mrs I complained to LP and Atlantic about  
the advice to switch her pension. 
The complaint against  Atlantic  could not be considered by this service as it was an unregulated  
business.
LP said it gave Mrs I no advice and was not involved in the switch. 
In July 2013,  subsequent to the switch, LP conducted a retrospective review of the switch. Following 
this Mrs I signed an, execution only authorisation form. She was sent a settlement payment of £100 
by LP.
Mrs I complained to LP in February 2015. LP responded to the complaint in August 2015 and 
confirmed the letter of July 2013, brought your attention to the fact if you were not happy with the 
outcome of our review you could take the matter to the Financial
Ombudsman Service and that you had a 6 month period in which  to do so. We would therefore  
consider that this matter  would now be time barred by the FOS. You also accepted our payment of 
£100 each in full and final settlement on the matter, which was paid in acknowledgment of the time 
you had taken  to assist us with the review.
In May 2016,  following a letter from our service to LP, LP wrote to Mrs I again. The letter said Mrs I 
had six months from the date of the letters  in July 2013 and August 2015  to take the complaint  to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Therefore, it was not obliged  to consider  the complaint further.
Mrs I subsequently asked this service to consider her complaint. An adjudicator looked into the 
complaint and considered  whether it had been made in time. 
The adjudicator considered that Mrs I had signed  the application form on 21 August 2012. LP had 
said that it conducted a review in July 2013 and that Mrs I had been given referral rights to this 
service at this time. It said she was also paid £100 towards settlement of the matter. However,  the 
adjudicator noted that LP had confirmed that this was as a gesture to thank her for completing the 
review, not in settlement  of any complaint about the pension  switch and investment.  In the 
adjudicators opinion, the letter of July 2013 issued  after the review was conducted was not in 
response to the complaint brought by Mrs I and did not consider the same issues she had raised now. 
Therefore the six month time limit LP had mentioned was not applicable to this complaint. 
Ref: DRN19096535The adjudicator also considered that the letter  issued by LP in August  2015 in response to the 
complaint of February 2015 did not give Mrs I referral rights to this service. Therefore, this letter  could 
not be considered a final response letter and there was no six month limit applicable from the date of 
that letter.  
The adjudicator then considered the merits of the complaint.
LP provided evidence that Mrs I had signed a declaration in July 2013 that confirmed that she did not 
receive any advice as to the pension switch. Also, that the investment was carried out on an 
execution only basis. This had been evidenced by a declaration signed as part of the application to 
Lifetime SIPP in August  2012. LP also said that Atlantic  facilitated the switch  from D P Pensions to 
Lifetime SIPP directly with no reference to LP. Also, LP werent copied  into any of the correspondence  
between Lifetime SIPP and Atlantic. The application was completed with the name Lansdown Place 
as the adviser, but this was not authorised  by or agreed by any adviser  at LP and was done by 
Atlantic or Lifetime SIPP without its knowledge.
It also pointed out that no fee or commission was paid to LP for this transaction.
This service had not been provided  with a suitability  report or written recommendation,  but looking at 
the circumstances, the adjudicator concluded  that it was highly likely that Mrs I did receive advice for 
this pension switch and investment from Mr H. The reasons for reaching this conclusion were:
There was no evidence that Mrs I had researched  the Harlequin  investment 
herself.
Mrs I was not an experienced investor. So it was unlikely that she would have instructed  a 
series of complex transactions that involved transferring the cash element from the existing 
SIPP into a new SIPP that would  be willing to accept an unregulated investment like 
Harlequin without receiving any advice.
The adjudicator considered the material  issue was if LP had carried  out the transaction that Mrs I 
complained about. The adjudicator noted  that the party indicated as the investment manager  on the 
Lifetime SIPP application  was Atlantic Partnership LLP. This entity appeared to be yet another 
unregulated business  linked to Mr H as he was listed on Companies House  as its director at the time.
She thought  it was likely that Mr H used Atlantic Partnership LLP to give advice about  the Harlequin 
Investment. Mr H had probably  used this company as a vehicle for him to introduce and recommend  
the Harlequin  Investment to Mrs I. 
However, she considered that Mr H was a director of LP at the time of the switch  and she had seen 
evidence that Mr H was liaising  with Mrs I regarding the switch of funds to Lifetime  and Harlequin  
using his LP email address. 
Furthermore, if LP had no involvement in the transfer,  she didnt think  that it would  have felt
obliged to conduct the review in 2013.
 
In her opinion the second  SIPP with Lifetime  SIPP was only set up with the intention of allowing the 
investment into an unregulated investment like Harlequin, which  D P Pensions would  not allow.
She further considered  that LP had professional and regulatory obligations and it shouldve  
questioned the pension switch when it received a request from Lifetime  SIPP. There wasnt any 
evidence to suggest that LP carried out even basic checks to confirm  that the assessment of 
appropriateness was applied. In her opinion, had LP done  so, it would  have concluded that Mrs I 
could not reasonably be treated on an execution only basis.
She concluded from the evidence that the switch  into the SIPP and then investing in Harlequin was 
unsuitable. And that LP was involved in the switch. 
 
Ref: DRN19096536LP requested that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my provisional  findings
time limits
LP originally said that the complaint had been made too late. This was because it said it had given  
referral rights to this service in 2013  and had issued  a further response to the complaint in 2015.  The 
adjudicator explained why the six month time limit did not apply and my understanding is that LP has 
not disputed that. However I would confirm  that I agree that Mrs I has not complained later that the six 
month time limit that LP refers to. 
The time limits are contained in the DISP Rules, set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook.
DISP 2.8.2
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which  the respondent sent the complainant  its final 
response,  redress determination or summary  resolution  communication
Firstly, the letter that LP issued  in 2013 was not a final response  letter to a complaint  Mrs I had made. 
LP had seemingly  asked  Mrs I whether  she wished for it to undertake a review of the pension switch. 
Mrs I agreed to that and then LP issued  a letter  which  set out its response.  From the response it is 
unclear what  form this review took or what LPs findings were. The letter of 3 July 2013 from LP to 
Mrs I is very brief and seems  to say that it had not given  advice  as to the investment in the SIPP. It is 
unclear what  conclusions LP drew from that as they are not set out. This letter does not address the 
issues that Mrs I raises now and it is not a final response to those matters. Therefore the six month 
time limit contained in that letter is not applicable to the complaint that is made  now.  
LP issued a further letter dated 4 August 2015 responding to Mrs Is complaint. But this had  no  
referral rights and did not set out any six month time limit for referral. So it does not qualify as a final 
response letter.  
In summary, Mrs I has not complained later than the six month time limit allowed. 
the merits of the complaint  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Lansdown Place, which appears on several  documents, is a trading name  of LP Financial  
Management Limited  (LP). So I have referred to LP throughout.
LP has said it is not liable for the pension  switch and investment about which  Mrs I  complains.  In 
order to consider that I have taken account of the following evidence:
An email from an employee  of DP Pensions to an employee of LP dated  4 July 2012 that 
confirms the current  SIPP cash balances for Mr and Mrs I.
An email from an employee  of DP Pensions to an employee of LP dated  7 August  2012 that 
states it attaches asset statements and other documents for Mr and Mrs I. 
A letter from Atlantic Partnership LLP to Lifetime SIPP dated  24 August 2012. This enclosed  a 
SIPP application  for Mrs I. 
Ref: DRN19096537A Lifetime  SIPP application form for Mrs I. The IFA on the form is recorded  as Lansdown 
Place and the investment manager as Atlantic Partnership LLP.  The application  is dated 21 
August 2012. 
A Harlequin investment  application signed  and dated  on 21 August 2012. This records Mr H 
of Atlantic Partnership  LLP as the investment  manager. Mrs I has also signed  the declaration 
for execution  only investors to indicate she has not received advice about the SIPP or 
investment and is an execution only customer. 
A Transfer-Out Request  Form that records the reason for the transfer as, Property 
purchase with another provider.
An email of 7 September 2012  from the Lifetime SIPP  administrator to ilia@aoiltd.co.uk, 
acknowledging Mrs Is SIPP application.  
An Atlantic compliment slip which says it attaches,  Member Investment Declarations for 
Mrs I. This is signed  Lila.  
An email from an employee  of LP to an employee of DP Pensions dated  18 October 2012.  
This states:
Further to our discussion  earlier today as there is now sufficient funds  in the clients bank 
accounts to make the partial transfers please could you proceed with the clients  instructions.
Could you let me know when you think the bank instructions  which you said would need  
completing by the clients will be ready and if these could possibly be e-mailed to us to speed 
up the process? 
There is a response the same day from DP Pensions to LP which  states:
Thank you for your email,  please find attached  two bank instructions for (Mr and Mrs I) to 
sign and return to me to facilitate the partial transfer out.
An email dated 26 October 2012 from Lifetime SIPP to ilia@aoiltd.co.uk acknowledging a 
transfer payment  from Mr I. 
A Lifetime  SIPP investment instructions form for Mrs I which instructs  an investment to be 
made in Harlequin. The Advisor is listed as Lansdown Place.  Mrs I has dated this form 5 
November 2012. It includes the statements:
I confirm that I have  considered the information prospectus provided by the product provider 
and I am fully aware that this Investment  is High Risk and/or  Speculative, may be Illiquid 
and/or difficult  to value or sell and confirm  that wish to proceed.
I acknowledge that I have been recommended to seek professional advice from a suitably 
qualified and authorised adviser however have chosen not to seek  advice for this transaction.
An LP Execution Only Authorisation Form.  This was signed by Mrs I on 16 July 2013. This 
sets out:
I wished to purchase  the product listed below. I understand and confirm that I am purchasing  
the product without having  received any advice. The, Reason for Execution Only Business 
is completed thus:
We wanted  to use our existing SIPP  (at existing SIPP provider) to access  a specific 
investment, but were unable to use that SIPP.  As such we wanted to transfer a cash element 
Ref: DRN19096538to (Lifetime SIPP) to access that investment. We did not seek or receive any advice in this 
respect. 
The declaration on the form is:
I accept the responsibility for this transaction. I confirm  that I do not require your advice with 
regard to this transaction nor did I request advice  regarding any alternative products or 
arrangements.
Mrs I has said that Mr H advised her to switch some  of her SIPP money  to another  SIPP to facilitate 
an investment into the Harlequin overseas property investment. 
When the complaint  was originally  submitted it was said that:
This was advised by (Mr H) under his business "Atlantic  Overseas Investments".
We had previously been advised in respect of a similar transaction  by (Mr H) when  he worked for 
Lansdown Place. We have discovered  that (Mr H) carried  out the transaction via Atlantic as an 
unregulated individual and we were not advised of this fact, or the consequences of this action.  In 
addition the recommendation to transfer was made by Mr (Mr H) at a time when he was not 
authorised and regulated.
Although I have attempted to clarify what occurred  with Mrs I, a response has not been forthcoming.  I 
have therefore proceeded based on the submission  that it was Mr H representing Atlantic Overseas 
who gave her the advice to invest  in Harlequin.
Having said that, I note that there  was a history of Mr H providing  financial advice  to Mr and Mrs I 
when representing LP. He had previously  provided them with such  advice in 2010.  There  are 
documented recommendations  at that time in respect of Mr and Mrs I switching  their pensions to a 
SIPP. So Mr H had previously given  them advice in respect  of pension  planning.    
It is clear that Mr H was the architect  of the switch  and investment. And I do not believe it is likely  that 
Mrs I would have made such a switch  and invested in a high risk unregulated  product such as 
Harlequin without being advised to do so. 
Mr H was a director  of both LP and Atlantic Partnership LLP at the time the switch and investment 
took place. And historically he had given  Mrs I advice as a representative  of LP. The evidence would 
suggest here that he was making use of both LP and Atlantic  Partnership LLP in advising and 
facilitating the switch and investment  I have discussed how both those businesses  were  involved in 
the SIPP  switch and investment. LP was the regulated financial adviser  noted  on the SIPP application 
literature and that switch would not have been able to go ahead without LPs involvement. 
LP has said it had no knowledge of that switch  or investment but that is not what  the evidence would 
suggest. As I have set out, as well as one of its Directors being directly  involved,  there are exchanges 
between employees of LP and Lifetime SIPP which  set out that LP was facilitating the switch  and 
requesting and providing information so that the switch  could  go ahead. It was clearly in my view at 
least arranging that pension switch. So it was carrying out a regulated activity to enable the switch  
and therefore the investment  which was the only reason  why the switch was being  made. 
It is also clear that employees of Atlantic  Partnership  LLP were involved  it is noted as the 
investment manager, it sent the SIPP  application to Lifetime SIPP and Lifetime SIPP was also 
corresponding with its employees. But that does not mean that LP did not have its own 
responsibilities.
I have also noted that LP has referred to another IFA being involved.  But the SIPP provider has 
confirmed this IFA was not involved, that was an error and that such  a reference only appeared 
because it was a process it used to handle  the SIPP application.  
Ref: DRN19096539the scope of LPs duties
There are overarching  reasons why in my view LP should not have proceeded  with this transaction at 
all or on an execution only basis  (if this was an execution only transaction, which  I am not persuaded 
it was). 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances,  I am required to take into account  
relevant: law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; and codes of practice. I am 
also required  to take into account, where  appropriate, what  I consider to have been good industry  
practice at the time.
I consider that the FCAs Principles  2, 3 and 6 are of particular relevance to my decision about what is 
fair and reasonable in this case.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general  statement of 
the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system  (PRIN  1.1.2G). Principles  2, 3 and 6 
say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business  with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate  risk management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
The Principles have a wide application, and I need to have regard to them when  deciding what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
As I have not seen any fact finding or documented  recommendations in respect of the switch to the 
SIPP and Harlequin investment, I have considered the fact finding  undertaken by LP in 2010.  This 
sets out that the transactions or investments  Mrs I was familiar with were  pensions, mortgages and 
life assurance. No other investments are listed. Furthermore  it was noted  that Mrs I would  usually  
seek professional advice rather than make her own investment decisions. Mrs I was also noted  as a, 
Non-professional (retail) client. The total value of her pensions at the time was about £157,000.
So, LP was aware that Mrs I was not an experienced, wealthy or professional investor  who was 
accustomed to entering into execution only transactions to purchase overseas unregulated 
investments without advice. It had classified  her as a retail client.  It was also aware that the intention 
was to invest  in an overseas unregulated  high risk investment  where there was the potential  for all the 
money to be lost. 
Given what it knew of Mrs I, I do not believe  that LP met its obligations  under the principles to simply 
arrange the switch of pension benefits on an execution only basis. It should  have been aware that 
there were very extensive risks inherent in this which Mrs I was likely not aware of. To simply process  
the transaction aware of this information and where  it was clear that Mrs I did not have the 
wherewithal to likely  appreciate all the risks herself was not acting in its customers best interest.  I do 
not believe it could ignore  these risks and carry out the transaction on an execution only basis. 
It should have either declined to carry out the transection or provided further guidance or advice on 
the overall arrangement of transfer, SIPP and investment.  I do not believe it acted with due care or in 
Mrs Hs interest  in accordance with Principles  2, 3 and 6. 
the SIPP
Ref: DRN190965310As discussed, in terms of the SIPP and investment,  I do not believe the transaction  can be safely  
considered execution only. I am not of the view that the circumstances suggest  it was an execution  
only transaction. Mrs I had only been told that she may be able to use her pensions  to invest in 
Harlequin by Mr H. 
Furthermore Mrs I was clearly not the type of sophisticated, knowledgeable  or professional investor  
who would normally be involved in execution only transactions to facilitate high risk unregulated 
investments and this would  likely  have  been  apparent  to LP, given what  it already knew about her 
from its previous  dealings. 
I say this as Mrs I was the Director of a small  toy retailer, had modest pension savings and no 
investments of an unregulated  or high risk nature. In fact, apart from her pensions, it would appear 
that she had no investments  at all. 
So Mrs I would clearly  not have appeared  to be an individual who would  know what  she was doing. 
LP should have taken this into account,  particularly  given the nature of the entire undertaking. 
In my view Mrs I was entitled to believe  that Mr H was looking after her interests in recommending the 
SIPP to be used and that the pension switch was appropriate for her. Given that I do not believe the 
SIPP arrangement can be considered properly execution only, LP should have  obtained sufficient 
information to ascertain if the pension  switch to the SIPP  was appropriate and suitable. It did not do 
so and if it had I believe it would have been clear  that it was not appropriate. 
It is also notable that LP only asked Mrs I to complete a formal execution  only form for it in 2013  
nearly a year after the transaction took place. This retrospective request is not indicative of a sound 
process and casts doubt on the validity  of that form. 
the suitability of the advice  
I have discussed Mrs Is circumstances and they do not indicate  high risk investing in overseas 
unregulated investments  would be acceptable. Her investment  in Harlequin was likely a result of a 
promotion of that investment  to her by Mr H  Mrs I had not arrived  at this decision on her own. 
The Harlequin  investment was an off plan  unregulated speculative overseas  property investment. It 
was high risk and the investor faced  the real possibility of losing all their money. Because it was 
unregulated Mrs I did not benefit from the protection afforded by the Financial Services Compensation  
Scheme.  I believe it is clear that Mrs Is risk tolerance (which was documented as Realistic in 2010)  
does not indicate she was suited to these risks.  
Mrs Is investment experience was limited and does not suggest  that she was an experienced investor  
who could appreciate all the risks of what she was doing  or would  not be reliant on LP to consider her 
best interests. I do not believe the investment was appropriate for Mrs I or she would have  invested if 
fully informed of all the risks of it.
did LP cause Mrs Is loss
Mrs I was a toy retailer. She was not a financial adviser. I do not believe she was likely aware of all 
the risks of the Harlequin investment. 
If LP had advised  Mrs I that she should  not switch or invest in Harlequin I think it more likely that she 
would have taken account of that advice  and it would have been persuasive, coming  from a 
professional regulated financial adviser. I think it is more  likely  that she would not have invested and 
this advice  would have changed her motivation to invest in Harlequin.  
It follows that she would not have switched, nor needed to have switched, her pension to the SIPP. 
So neither the SIPP nor the investment would have taken place  but for LPs recommendation. 
Ref: DRN190965311Consequently any loss Mrs I has suffered through transferring to the SIPP and investing  in Harlequin 
has been caused by LP.    
Im aware that a party involved with Harlequin  Property had been charged with fraud offences. A court  
might therefore conclude that the loss doesnt flow directly from LPs unsuitable advice. And on this 
basis, a court might not require  LP to compensate  Mrs I  notwithstanding the clearly unsuitable 
investment. 
But in assessing fair compensation, Im not limited to the position  a court  might take.  It may be there 
has been a break in the chain of causation . That might mean  it wouldnt  be fair to say that all of the 
losses suffered flowed  from the actions of LP. That will depend on the particular circumstances of the 
case. No liability will arise for a business  that has acted appropriately even if fraud later takes place. 
But the position is different  where the consumer  wouldnt have been in the investment in the first 
place without the businesss actions. In that situation, it may be fair to assess compensation on our 
usual basis  aiming  to put the consumers  in the position they would have been in if theyd been  given 
suitable advice.
In this particular case, I conclude  that it would be fair and reasonable to make an award, given  the 
specific circumstances. I am satisfied that Mrs I would  not have made  the Harlequin  Property 
investment had it not been  for the failings  of LP. As a direct result of LPs actions,  Mrs I invested 
some of her pension into a specialised, unregulated investment with a limited track record.   
So I think that its fair and reasonable to hold LP responsible for the whole of the loss suffered by Mrs 
I. I am not asking LP to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. I am 
satisfied those  failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That other parties might 
also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, which I am not able to determine. However, 
that fact should not impact  on Mrs Is right to compensation from LP for the full amount of the loss.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs I should be put as closely as possible  into the position  she would probably now be 
had it not been for the actions of LP. 
I think  Mrs I would have invested differently.  Its not possible  to say precisely  what she would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mrs I's circumstances 
and objectives when she invested.
what should LP do?
To compensate Mrs I fairly, LP must:
Compare the performance  of Mrs I's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
LP should add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, LP should pay into Mrs I's pension  plan to increase its value  by the amount  
of the compensation  and any interest. The amount paid should  allow for the effect of charges  
and any available  tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would  
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If LP is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs I's pension plan, it should  pay that amount 
direct to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the compensation should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs I's actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at her selected retirement age. 
Ref: DRN190965312For example, if Mrs I is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement  age, the 
reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs I would  have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mrs I £250 for the inconvenience and upset  caused by the losses she has incurred and 
the issues  caused  by the illiquidity of the investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If LP deducts income tax from the interest,  it 
should tell Mrs I how much has been taken off. LP should give Mrs I a tax deduction certificate  
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the investment. This is complicated where  an investment 
is illiquid (meaning  it could not be readily sold on the open  market) as in this case. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. LP should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance paid as I set out above.
If LP is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should  be assumed  to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. LP may require  that Mrs I provides  an undertaking  to pay LP any amount she 
may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow  for any tax and charges  
that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. LP will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mrs I paid into the investment should be added  to the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations  simpler, Ill 
accept if LP totals all those  payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
Ref: DRN190965313Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs I wanted capital  growth  and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.  
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mrs I's 
circumstances and risk attitude. 
My provisional decision
I currently intend to uphold the complaint.  My provisional  decision is that LP Financial Management 
Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1909653