K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) refused a payment made via his internet 
banking. Hes also unhappy that Lloyds suspended his account and made him go to a 
branch to prove his identify. Mr B says hes suffered financial loss.  
background
On Saturday 30 March 2019 Mr B tried to make  a payment of £88.50 with his business debit 
card. The payment failed and an indicator was put on his account to restrict online 
payments. Mr B was asked to call Lloyds fraud team. He was asked  a number of security 
questions. But as he was unable to answer all the questions correctly,  Lloyds  asked Mr B to 
go to a branch  with photo ID. Mr B visited  a branch on Monday 1 April 2019 and the indicator 
on his account  was lifted. 
Mr B complained to Lloyds. He felt it was wrong  for such a small payment to have been 
subject to security checks.  He was also unhappy  that he had to travel some  distance to the 
nearest Lloyds branch to prove his identify. Mr B said Lloyds should reimburse his travel 
costs and for loss of wages amounting to a total of £250. 
Lloyds said it was right to decline the payment made by Mr B on 30 March  2019. It accepted  
that this can inconvenience customers,  but said it has a duty to protect its customers 
accounts and is entitled to carry out security checks to assist in the detection of fraud. Lloyds 
assured Mr B that such  checks are not random, and are linked to a number of factors.  
In terms of the security  process, Lloyds explained how it had been unable to verify Mr Bs 
identify over the phone  and so he had been  asked  to visit a branch. Lloyds accepted this 
was unfortunate  and caused Mr B inconvenience.  But it didnt think  it had done  anything 
wrong. Lloyds didnt accept Mr Bs clam  for £250, but paid him £59 as a goodwill gesture.
Mr B didnt accept Lloyds response  and referred  his complaint to our service.  He maintained 
that Lloyds had made mistakes. He said his account  had been blocked  meaning he was 
unable to make and receive  payments.  He still felt Lloyds should  reimburse  him for the £250 
he lost in expenses  and wages. 
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. He said Lloyds was 
entitled to decline  the payment and to carry out checks to verify  Mr Bs identity. He felt the 
£59 paid by Lloyds was enough. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion and so the case  has been passed to me to 
decide. Mr B said Lloyds had made a mistake because the transaction was genuine. And it 
shouldve been  able to identify him over the phone. Mr B said it was Lloyds mistake  that 
meant he lost out financially.  He said he should be fully compensated.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as our investigator.  
Ref: DRN19631402Banks are entitled to make any checks they consider necessary to verify transactions made 
by its customers. This is needed to protect those customers  and to combat  fraud. Lloyds has 
explained to us how there are a number of indicators which  alert it to a possible fraudulent 
transaction. This is much  more comprehensive then the size of the payment alone.  
Lloyds has provided  us with information  on why it carried out checks on the payment made  
by Mr B on 30 March 2019. Its also explained the account wasnt blocked; rather  an 
indicator was put on Mr Bs account whilst the payment was being looked  into. I cant  see 
that Lloyds did anything wrong  here. Even if the transaction was found to be genuine, Lloyds 
was entitled to carry out the checks it did and to restrict the use of Mr Bs account whilst  
those checks were  carried out. 
Lloyds has also provided us with information on the security checks it did over the phone 
with Mr B. Lloyds wasnt satisfied that Mr B had verified his identity, and has told us more  
about its reasons  for that. Again, I cant see that Lloyds has done  anything wrong here. Wed 
expect a bank  to be completely satisfied of a customers identity if there were any concerns 
that their account was being compromised. And the bank is entitled  to carry out any further 
checks it considers necessary in order to do that. It had some doubts  about Mr Bs identity 
and so asked  him to visit a branch in person. Whilst I can understand why Mr B found this 
inconvenient, Lloyds did nothing wrong.   
Lloyds has paid Mr B £59 because it accepts he was inconvenienced by having  to go to a 
branch, particularly as the nearest one was 35 miles away.  But Im satisfied this was 
necessary in order for Mr B to verify his identify. So I cant say that mistakes by Lloyds  
directly led to the financial loss Mr B is claiming. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Anna Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1963140