K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains about the interest rate he was offered  after he applied for a personal loan 
with Admiral Financial Services Ltd
Background
Mr M applied  for a loan with Admiral via a comparison website.
After applying, Mr M was offered a loan with an interest  rate of more  than 5% more than the 
one advertised to him on the comparison website. He didnt take out the loan.
Mr M complained to Admiral. He wanted  to know  the reason he wasnt  offered the loan at the 
advertised rate as he had a high credit  rating.  He said he thought Admiral were  offering the 
loan to him with a higher  interest rate as theyd seen  his salary and knew  he could afford to 
pay the higher  rate. Hes not happy the application  left a search footprint on his credit file 
and said if hed known  hed have been offered  a higher rate, hed never have applied for the 
loan.
Admiral said it cant  tell Mr M the exact  reason he was offered a higher rate because that 
information is commercially sensitive. It said it assessed his application  in line with its 
lending criteria and so the rate it offered is fair. Admiral also said it was clear on the 
comparison website and its own website  that Mr M might not be offered the advertised 
interest rate. And it was clear on Admirals website that the application would record a 
search on Mr Ms credit file.
Unhappy, Mr M brought his complaint  to us.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and thought Admiral  had acted fairly.  She 
explained shed  seen the reason Mr M was offered  a higher interest  rate. And although  she 
couldnt share this reason with Mr M, she was satisfied Admiral had assessed  his application 
fairly, in line with its lending criteria. She thought it was clear before Mr M applied for the 
loan, that the advertised interest  rate wasnt guaranteed, and that submitting an application 
would report a search on his credit  file.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He doesnt think its fair 
hes not been told why he wasnt offered the lower, advertised interest rate.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
I understand Mr Ms frustration with being offered an interest rate over 5% more  than the one 
advertised. And I understand wants to be told the exact reason  he wasnt offered the 
advertised rate, especially  as he considers  his credit rating to be very high. But this isnt 
something Admiral has to tell him.
Ref: DRN17923772Each lender is allowed  to decide what it wants to lend, and on what  terms it wants  to lend it. 
Its allowed  to choose what interest it charges, and its allowed to set out its own criteria to 
decide this. These criteria are commercially sensitive and allow  the market  to stay 
competitive. Its not the role of this service to tell a lender what  it can and cant  take into 
account when  lending money.
Ive looked at the reason  Mr M was offered the higher rate, and while  I cant share it, Im 
satisfied Admiral assessed his application  in line with its lending criteria.  So Im of the 
opinion its treated Mr M fairly. Im satisfied any other applicant with the same circumstances 
as Mr M wouldve  been  offered the same interest rate. 
Im also satisfied that Admiral gave  Mr M enough  information to make an informed choice 
about whether  to apply for the loan or not, before he submitted his application.
Both the comparison website and Admirals  website say the advertised rate is not 
guaranteed and that Mr M may be offered a higher rate. Admiral  website also makes it clear  
that itll leave a search footprint on Mr Ms credit file when processing  his application. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Admiral  Financial  
Services Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1792377