K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  known as 
PaymentCare. 
Mr L and Mrs W say they were mis-sold such a policy in 1995 with a new mortgage by 
Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey). For consistency Ill refer mainly to Santander.
background
The MPPI cover was sold when Mr L and Mrs W were re-arranging  their financial affairs.  It 
appears to have covered both of them in the event of being unable to work or losing their 
jobs. Our adjudicator  who looked at their complaint recommended that it shouldnt  be upheld  
but Mr L and Mrs W disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
I can see this case has taken a while to get to this stage and Im very sorry about that. Mr L 
has expressed frustration about Santanders  handling of the complaint and I can see he and 
Mrs W were sent a number of updates by Santander  that contained errors and appeared to 
be taking too long. I understand and sympathise regarding this.
Nevertheless, I also take into account that the events  complained  of were considerably more 
than 20 years ago. Its therefore not particularly surprising that much of the history and 
records are no longer available to us. 
However, I do know that Mr L and Mrs Ws main point of complaint is that they didnt need 
MPPI because of the types of jobs they had. They also say it was implied  that they needed 
to have cover like this to get their mortgage approved.  Ive considered  these issues with 
great care.
Firstly, theres  no dispute that Mr L and Mr W knew such a policy had been set up for them 
and of its existence. Weve got access to a few post-sale documents, such as annual 
statements, showing information  about  the cover  they had.
Santander also says it would have been  made  clear during the mortgage interview that MPPI 
was optional rather than compulsory. Mr L and Mrs W havent been  able to show  me 
anything that evidences their belief that they were made to feel they had to have MPPI and 
my experience is that these types of policy were usually mentioned  on the Mortgage Offer 
which consumers were  given. The Offer  also usually outlined which types  of insurance  if 
any  were requirements of particular  mortgages.
I also note that Mrs W had previously owned  the MPPI policy on her own,  since  1993, and 
the 1995 sale event added Mr L to it.
Ref: DRN13987722So put simply, theres as much to say they both properly agreed to the MPPI,  as there is to 
say they didnt. I therefore wouldnt  be minded to uphold  their complaint on this particular 
point. Mrs W had the cover before 1995  and the evidence Ive seen is relatively  
comprehensive that their awareness of the MPPI  was good; they could see they had the 
policy. 
I was also sent a copy of the relevant Paymentcare literature from that time period which  
Ive got no reason to think Mr L and Mrs W wouldnt have  had access to. In my view, this 
portrayed the MPPI as optional. So on the balance of probability, I consider it more likely 
they asked to have the cover and that their consent was properly  obtained.
I think this would have  probably been an advised sale and the MPPI may have been 
recommended as part of that. As Ive said, Mr L and Mrs Ws major point of complaint is they 
didnt need the cover because they had similar  protection from their jobs.
I fully understand  the point being made.  But Im afraid I dont agree with it.  
Whether different  people  feel the need  for this type of cover  can vary because  of their 
circumstances and their attitude  to risk. Mr L and Mrs W appear to have been eligible for the 
cover and not caught by any of the major  exclusions  we tend to see in these types of policy.  
The monthly cost of the cover wasnt substantially different from similar policies being 
marketed at the time and Ive nothing to say Mr L and Mrs W found the monthly  premiums  
unaffordable.
Mr L and Mrs W told us they already  enjoyed  some protection from sickness through their 
jobs but this doesnt necessarily make  the MPPI of no use. Their mortgage was secured 
against their home so the consequences  of not being able to keep up the payments  could  
have been significant. I can at least therefore understand how the MPPI could have been of 
use. Policies like this are there to help in financially difficult times and it could have paid out 
a monthly sum for up to 36 months  in the event of a successful claim. 
I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
Santander also had to make sure the information it provided was clear, fair and not 
misleading. After such a long time I cant say whether Mr L and Mrs W were told everything  
about the policy or that Santander did everything right. But the information Ive seen does 
tend to show they would have known  about  the cost, who was covered  and for what.  
I completely accept that Mr L and Mrs W now honestly and genuinely feel the policy  wasnt  
something the needed. However, taking everything  into account, I think there was most likely 
a discussion with the adviser about  the policy  which Mr L and Mrs W engaged  in. I cant  
safely say this policy was mis-sold.
Finally, Ive looked in detail  at the rules  we are to apply  around the commission and profit 
sharing some businesses  received from selling policies like this. Because  of the 
circumstances of their mortgage, Mr L and Mrs Ws complaint isnt relevant  to these 
particular rules.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. I dont direct Santander UK Plc, 
to pay Mr L and Mrs W any compensation.
Ref: DRN13987723Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1398772