K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr W. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  Bank  of Scotland,  trading 
as Halifax, sold Mr W the policy when he applied for the card during a meeting.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive carefully considered  everything Mr W and his representatives have said,  but Ive decided 
the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain  why:
I think Bank of Scotland made Mr W aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose 
to take it. I can see that the application  form, which Mr W signed, shows  that the PPI 
was offered as a choice, and an X was typed in the box to indicate he wanted to take 
it. I think this X was probably  added during the meeting, to reflect what Mr W had told 
Bank of Scotland he wanted.  And by signing the form he confirmed that it was. 
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mr W, and it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI could 
have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than Mr Ws employer sick pay. 
And it seems he didnt have savings  or other means to fall back on. Also it would have 
paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, and on top of that pay, 
so leaving Mr W more financially secure for longer. So, overall,  the PPI was potentially 
useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable for him. And I cant see any other  
reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Bank of Scotland gave  Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I dont think,  in his circumstances, better information about costs  and 
benefits and other terms would  have affected whether he took the PPI. And from what 
hes told us it doesnt look like hed have been  affected by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. 
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mr W back some of the cost of the PPI and I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to make 
this payment to Mr W, now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt already done  so.
Ref: DRN10693442my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1069344