K821x#15complaint
Mr Ss complaint relates  to a kitchen  appliance section of his home  emergency  insurance 
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
Mr Ss policy  with British Gas covers a property he rents out. In November 2018, while he 
was away on holiday, the washing machine in the property  broke  down. His rental agents 
arranged for a contractor  to attend.  He determined  that the washing machine drum had 
failed and the cost of replacing this would mean the washing machine was uneconomical to 
repair. He recommended therefore that the machine  be replaced. Mr Ss letting agents 
replaced the machine at a cost of £600. 
Mr S later realised that he had cover under the policy with British  Gas and so contacted it to 
ask for a contribution towards the new machine. 
British Gas refused,  as it says it is not its fault that Mr S didnt  make  a claim at the time and it 
has been denied  the opportunity to try and repair the machine. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He recommended  the complaint be upheld 
and that British Gas pay a contribution  of £75 towards the replacement machine. The 
investigator said the policy doesnt  stipulate  that British Gas (rather than an independent  
contractor) had to determine the machine was beyond repair  and in any case, it would have 
to show it had been prejudiced by the use of a non-British Gas approved contractor and it 
has not done so. Overall  given the circumstances,  the investigator  said that the rough cost of 
a replacement like-for-like  machine would be around £250 and the policy  provides for a 
contribution of 30% of this cost (as it was more  than three years  old) so British  Gas should 
pay Mr S £75.  
British Gas does  not accept the investigators recommendation. It says it does  not pay cash 
in lieu of any repairs and it is not reasonable for it to pay a retrospective  payment for a fault it 
knew nothing about. Mr S may well have  forgotten about the cover but this means he didnt 
contact British Gas and it didnt visit the property. No other insurance policy is likely to pay 
for repairs done by a third party in such circumstances  either. 
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The appliance cover  section of the policy says British Gas will cover:
All repairs to the kitchen appliance(s) shown on your statement.
A contribution towards a replacement  if we cant repair it or we decide  it will cost less to 
replace than to repair. Well source  the replacement  from our approved supplier and make  
the following  contribution based  on their current retail selling price:
 100% if your appliance  is less than three years old
Ref: DRN14580722 30% if your appliance is three years old or more
You may use our contribution towards an alternative model  of your choice from our
approved supplier. There is no cash alternative.
replacement/replace/replacing
- in the case  of Kitchen  Appliance Cover well provide a contribution towards a replacement
appliance with similar functionality from our approved supplier
We won't offer you cash instead of carrying out an annual service, repairs or replacements."
While I accept that Mr S should have  made  a claim at the time, and it is not British Gass 
fault that he did not do so, my remit is to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.  Mr S did hold cover and if it had not been for this oversight (in not 
realising he had the cover until after the event)  it is likely that British Gas would have come  
out and either repaired  the machine or offered a contribution  to a new one. 
Therefore unless British  Gas can establish  that it has been prejudiced by this oversight, it 
seems to me fair and reasonable that British Gas pay what  it would have paid had the claim 
been made a the correct time. 
British Gas questioned the invoice from the contractor and whether the machine could have 
been repaired. It suggests that this would amount to prejudice. 
The contractor that inspected the machine said it needed a new drum which  would cost 
between £100  and £150, plus labour (which he said would be a few hours worth). I have no 
reason to doubt this diagnosis. The machine was repairable but the contractor that went  out 
determined it was uneconomical to repair. 
However, British Gas may have been able to complete the repairs  for less that the 
contractor, so it is possible  that it could establish prejudice if the cost of the claim is more 
than it would have  cost it if Mr S had reported it to British Gas at the correct  time. I will go on 
to consider this.
The proposal the investigator made  was based on an estimate of £250 to replace the 
machine with a like-for-like, make and model of the same  age (i.e. the cost of a second  -
hand machine).  However, the policy doesnt  state that a replacement  machine would not be 
new-for-old. The policy only refers to replacement and current retail  value  of the replacement 
on a like-for-like basis (which is not defined in the policy) I think it is reasonable to take that 
as meaning it would be replaced with a new appliance. 
Mr S replaced the machine at a cost of £600,  which included  fitting  and the removal  of the 
old machine. Mr S said throughout the complaint that the appliance itself was £480. Mr S 
replaced the machine with a different brand but the prices seem comparable.  So, while not a 
precise science, I consider it would be reasonable overall for British Gas to pay 30% of the 
cost of the new appliance, i.e. £160.  
Turning to whether  this would cause British Gas prejudice, I do not think  this has been 
established. I say this because while we dont  know exactly  how much  it would  have cost 
British Gas to repair  the washing  machine, given that the contractor said a new drum  would  
be £100-150 and there  would be considerable labour involved as the machine was 
integrated, it seems unlikely British  Gas could have repaired  it for less that the £160  I am 
Ref: DRN14580723proposing. I do not therefore consider British Gas has been  prejudiced  by not having  the 
chance to assess  if the machine was repairable, as it is unlikely any repair  would have cost 
less than £160. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to pay Mr S the 
sum of £160  in full and final settlement of his complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 October  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1458072