K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc incorrectly told him that his application 
for a business overdraft  would not require  a credit check.
 
background 
Mr E says he spoke to a member of staff at RBS about his application.  He thought  that there 
would be no credit check as it was not for over £2,500. He was unhappy to find that a credit 
check had been  made.  And that when  he complained about this RBS said it had no record of 
any calls with him. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that RBS pay Mr E £100 in compensation and it agreed  to do 
so. He said that:
-The application was made online and Mr E said that as far as he was aware hed 
been told that there would be no credit check.
-Although Mr E had provided recordings of some of the calls he had with RBS he did 
not have the one in which he said he was mis-advised.
-It appears that there might have been some confusion over the difference  between  a 
financial assessment   which was not required for an overdraft of this amount   and 
a credit search that would be required for any application.
-RBS had told this service that it did not have any call recordings but Mr E had 
provided some. He recommended compensation for the poor customer  service.
Mr E did not agree.  He said he wanted RBS to be fined. It had indirectly called  him a liar. It 
has not released the calls and he said he spent  over four hours  on the phone with RBS.  He 
wanted to be compensated for his time at a rate of £55 per hour.  He said that the credit 
search had a negative impact on him. RBS did not care about  his concerns
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think RBS made a mistake in carrying out a credit check  when Mr E applied for his 
business overdraft.  That would be normal procedure. Mr E has provided  an extract from his 
credit record  showing  that this took place on 20 October 2017.  And there was a note on that 
report from the credit reference agency stating that this no longer affected his score  as six 
months had by then passed.
The issue  is what Mr E was told about  this. I appreciate  the issues  with the call recordings 
which I will come  to. But the position  is that I do not have a recording of a call during which  
Mr E was given incorrect information. RBS has shown  that he made the application online. It 
also says that during  such a process  a notice would be shown to say that the application 
would be subject to a credit check. I think that would  be expected  so that explicit consent 
was given. I note that on the complaint form that Mr E signed he says that as far as I can 
recall I was advised that if you apply for £2,500.00 then there is no credit search. RBS has 
clarified that the distinction is whether a more detailed financial assessment is required. I 
appreciate the potential  for confusion here but I dont have sufficient  evidence  to find RBS 
made a mistake.  And thats especially as the application was made by Mr E online.
Ref: DRN11040872I know that Mr E says he did not receive the final response of 29 November 2017 from RBS 
about his complaint. It seems to have been  sent to the correct  details for him. I appreciate 
that he had further  calls about  his complaint. I understand  RBS has since  refunded his 
overdraft fee of £150 recognising that the term it granted was for less than a year.  But the 
complaint issue Mr E has referred  to us is that the credit search is not being removed too. I 
agree with our adjudicator that its disappointing  that RBS said in the final response that it 
was unable to see any evidence of calls to the Bank within  the last 6 months . Its since 
explained to the adjudicator that to track  a call would  require the details of the time and 
number of the caller  and that not all calls are recorded. It would  not have recordings retained 
after six months. Mr E has provided evidence  of calls relating to the issue which he recorded  
and Ive listened to. So I understand his concern at what  RBS said.
We dont make punitive awards and we dont often  make  awards  for the time involved in 
bringing a complaint. And where we do that would be at a modest rate. Im looking at what  is 
reasonable overall taking into account  that I havent  found that RBS made  a mistake with the 
credit search. With that in mind I dont have  a reasonable  basis to require RBS to do more 
than its now additionally  offered to do.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part in the sense that The Royal  Bank of 
Scotland Plc should pay Mr E £100  as it has now offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1104087