K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP did not carry out the correct affordability  
checks before approving  his loans.
background
Mr P had three loans  from Uncle Buck between November 2012 and March 2013 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 23 Nov 2012 £100 1m £134.95 13 Dec 2012 On time
2 14 Dec 2012 £125 1m £168.69 10 Jan 2013 On time
3 18 Mar 2013 £500 1m £674.75 15 Apr 2013 Outstanding
Mr P says he had loans with multiple  short-term loan companies at the same time and no 
proper checks were  done before the loans  were approved. Mr P explains that he was using 
one loan to repay another and that this caused  him to be in so much  debt that he had to sell 
his house and enter into a debt management plan.  Mr P adds that it has negatively affected 
his home  life and mental health.
Uncle Buck  says it asked  Mr P about  his income  and verified the information provided. It 
says it carried out a credit check for all loans and, for loan 3, it also asked Mr P about his 
expenditure. Uncle Buck says Mr P met its lending criteria for all loans. Uncle Buck  says 
Mr P contacted it in April 2013 to say hed entered into a debt management plan. But when 
those payments stopped in October  2013, Mr Ps account was passed  to a third party  debt 
collecting agency.
Our adjudicator recommended  Mr Ps complaint  should be upheld in part. She found that 
Uncle Buck  had information that showed Mr Ps expenditure was higher than his income  for 
loans 1 and 2. So she concluded  that these loans were unaffordable  to him. Although our 
adjudicator didnt think Uncle Buck had done  enough checks before it approved  loan 3, she 
didnt have enough information to see what better  checks would have shown, so couldnt  say 
it was unaffordable to Mr P. She recommended Uncle Buck  should  buy back the debt from 
the third party  and offset the refunded interest  and charges for loans 1 and 2 (plus 8% 
statutory interest) against it. She said that Uncle Buck should also remove any negative 
information about loans 1 and 2 from Mr Ps credit  file.
Uncle Buck  responded to say, in summary,  that Mr Ps repayments on loans 1 and 2 were  a 
small proportion  of his income and that it was satisfied that its checks  were proportionate to 
the circumstances of the loans. It says the expenditure figure  used by the adjudicator in her 
assessment was from a model based on demographic data. It says the figure shown for 
mortgage/rent in the model seems  to have been  an error and further analysis  shows  it 
should probably have been  £245, rather than £2,455. The adjusted  model showed Mr P had 
an estimated disposable  income of £723,  which still shows loans 1 and 2 were  affordable.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Uncle Buck and to Mr P on 26 June 2019. I summarise  my 
findings here:
For loans  1 and 2 I considered the checks went far enough as the scheduled 
repayments were  a small proportion of Mr Ps income;
Ref: DRN15478462I accepted Uncle Bucks explanation about  the incorrect expenditure figure and, as a 
result, I couldnt see there  was anything in the available  information  that indicated  Mr P 
was in financial difficulty;
I couldnt  conclude Uncle Buck was wrong  to approve loans 1 and 2;
As Mr Ps scheduled repayment was much higher for loan 3, Id have expected Uncle  
Buck to ask Mr P about income and expenditure and also any other short-term loans;
I couldnt  see that Uncle Buck had carried out this level of checks, so I had a look to 
see what they were  likely to have shown;
At the time of Mr Ps third loan application, I found he owed over £1,600 to other short-
term lenders,  so I was satisfied he couldnt  afford the £674.75 repayment on loan 3;
My provisional decision was that Uncle Buck  should  refund interest  and charges on loan 3 
(plus 8% statutory interest) and remove associated negative information  from his credit file.
Neither Mr P, nor Uncle Buck, provided any additional information  in response to my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional  information,  I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part. Uncle  Buck Finance LLP should:
Refund  all interest and charges that Mr P paid on loan 3;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from payment date to settlement date*;
Write off any unpaid interest  and charges for loan 3, apply the refund to reduce any 
capital outstanding  and pay any balance to Mr P; 
Arrange  to repay any portion of the sum due to the third party debt collection agency 
that is made up of interest and charges  including any added  by the third party;
Refund  interest  and charges  Mr P has already paid to the third party plus 8% interest 
simple per annum on each amount from date of payment to the date of settlement;
Remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
Uncle Buck  intends  to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding  capital  balance,  it must do 
so after deducting  the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1547846