K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about how Santander UK plc dealt  with her requests to transfer money  and 
that it closed her account which  resulted  in her missing medical appointments.
Background
Mrs B had previous  problems with Santander which she complained  about  and it agreed to 
pay her about £1,500  compensation.  She says that she travelled abroad for medical 
treatment but experienced problems trying to transfer money from her Santander account to 
an account she held with a different business.  Mrs B says that some payments  would  go 
through but others  would  not. She then says one of her two Santander accounts was closed 
and the money  transferred to the other account.  Mrs B says as a result  of these problems 
she missed three medical appointments and was forced to pay for an earlier  flight back to 
the United Kingdom and was left in foreign country  in danger without any money.
Santander says Mrs B accepted its previous offer of compensation  and those matters  were 
resolved. It says it applied  its security  and fraud  measures  to some payments and 
transactions and that is why some were  blocked.  But it accepts Mrs Bs account was closed 
in error  and has apologised and has accepted that Mrs B made a number  of calls to it about  
this problem and other  matters. Santander has paid £450 compensation for the calls and 
inconvenience and distress Mrs B was caused.
Mrs B didnt accept that view and says part of the problem was that her family only had 
details of the closed account and so couldnt  transfer money to her to assist.  She brought  
her complaint to us and says Santander should  also pay for her missed appointments and 
extra flight  which  amounts  to about  £1,720.
Our adjudicator asked  Mrs B for details of the missed appointments and for evidence of the 
extra flight. Mrs B says she shouldnt be required to provide  that evidence  as it contains her 
medical information and she doesnt  have the information about the flight.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  and thought the compensation paid to Mrs B was 
fair and reasonable. He thought Mrs B did have access to the other Santander  account  and 
it was for Santander to decide on its security measures.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and says Santanders actions have meant  she will need to 
start her medical treatment again  at a significant  cost to her. She also says she was 
promised by a Santander advisor, that she would receive appropriate compensation and her 
expenses back.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise that Mrs B will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels  about  whats  happened 
here.
I make  it clear  to the parties that Im dealing with the complaints about the events  that took 
place in 2018 and in particular the closing of the account and the fairness of the security 
measures Santander  took. I can see that Mrs B has made previous complaints about  
Santander which I think were resolved by Mrs B accepting the compensation offer.  I can also 
Ref: DRN16508112see that the final response  letters  told Mrs B that she had six months  to bring  those 
complaints to us if she wished to do so and I can see that she didnt.
Im satisfied that banks  and building societies are entitled to take fraud and security 
measures before approving account transactions. I think such measures are designed  to 
protect a business and protect a customers money.  I appreciate that on occasions  those  
measures can cause  inconvenience to customers and I appreciate that in this case Mrs B 
was not present in the United Kingdom  which made trying to sort matters out more 
complicated. But I cant fairly tell a business  how it uses such measures and I think  such 
matters are for a business to decide upon  when exercising its commercial  judgement.  I 
accept Mrs B says that some transactions went through but others didnt. But for the reasons 
Ive explained  I think its up to Santander  to make such decisions regardless of the amount if 
it had genuine  concerns.  I make it clear that Ive not seen any evidence that suggests 
Santander has made a mistake in blocking the transactions unfairly.
I accept Mrs B was caused  inconvenience  in trying to contact Santander  and that matters 
were made worse by the closing of one of Mrs Bs Santander accounts. I appreciate  that in 
those circumstances  she would have been  caused  distress and I accept that she was 
receiving medical care at that time. But Im satisfied that Santander has apologised for what  
took place and I think paid a fair and reasonable amount  of compensation of £450. I think  
that award fairly takes into account the level of Santanders mistake and the level of 
inconvenience and distress Mrs B was caused. I also think  that Mrs B did have access  to her 
other Santander account at this time. I appreciate Mrs B says that her family  only had details 
of the closed account but shes not told me why she couldnt have given details of the open 
account to her family members.
I appreciate Mrs B says as a result of what took place she missed three medical 
appointments and was forced to take an earlier flight. I have listened to all of the calls 
between the parties  and looked at the e-mail  exchange. Having done so I dont  think 
Santander promised  to reimburse these  costs. And, whilst I appreciate  Mrs B doesnt wish to 
disclose details of her medical treatment, I would have expected  her to provide some  
evidence from those  who treated her to confirm the missed appointments and cost of them.  
As I think  Mrs B did have access to her other  account and could have provided details of it to 
family members to transfer  money  into it. I cant fairly ask Santander to reimburse the cost of 
returning home earlier than planned.
Overall Im satisfied Santander has dealt  fairly  and reasonably with this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK plc has paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation and I dont  require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1650811