K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  was irresponsible to lend 
him money.
background
Mr Y took out 11 loans  with QuickQuid between August  2014  and December  2016.  Mr Y 
topped up the loans  on a number of occasions.
Mr Y says that he was having to borrow money  from multiple  lenders to keep up with his 
repayments. Mr Y ended up entering in to a debt management plan. Mr Y wants QuickQuid 
to refund all the loans  that we consider were lent irresponsibly.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ys complaint should  be upheld  in part. In summary, 
he thought the largest repayment on the top up of loan three  represented a significant  
proportion of Mr Ys declared monthly  income. The adjudicator  didnt think  that QuickQuid  
shouldve agreed  loan three. 
The adjudicator thought  that by loan four, there was evidence of Mr Y being reliant on short 
term lending. The adjudicator recommended that QuickQuid refund all interest and charges 
that Mr Y had paid on loans three  to 11. 
The adjudicator said that QuickQuid should  remove any negative information about  loan 
three from Mr Ys credit file. The adjudicator  thought that QuickQuid should remove  all 
entries relating  to loans four to 11. 
QuickQuid disagreed with the adjudicators view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr Y 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Quick 
Quid should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN17065082the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ys complaint.
loan three
Before agreeing loan three, QuickQuid recorded Mr Ys net monthly  income to be £871. Mr Y 
had borrowed £300 and the highest instalment was £367. I think that QuickQuid shouldve 
realised that the repayment on loan three was a significant enough proportion  of Mr Ys 
declared monthly income to mean that it was likely he would have to borrow  again to repay 
it. So I dont think that QuickQuid shouldve agreed this loan.
The fact that Mr Y repaid loan three early and didnt  incur  any late fees doesnt  automatically 
mean that he did so in a sustainable  way  that is without borrowing elsewhere.  
loan four onwards
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr Y I think  
QuickQuid should  reasonably have  seen Mr Y was unlikely  to have been able to make  his 
loan repayments  in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan four. I say this 
because:
by this stage, Mr Y was into his eighth consecutive month of owing QuickQuid 
money. And although Mr Y had repaid loan three early,  hed topped  it up by almost  
the same  amount  of the original loan amount within  a few days of applying  for loan 
three.
Mr Y went on to top up each loan from five onwards  sometimes  more than once. 
And Mr Y was often  taking out new loans shortly  after repaying previous ones. So 
QuickQuid ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr Y was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole the repayment  of his previous loans left in his 
finances and that Mr Ys indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Y wasnt making any real inroads into what he owed  QuickQuid and his 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. Loan 11 was 
provided more than two years  after Mr Ys first. By this time, Mr Y owed more than 
six times as much  as he did for loan one. This meant that Mr Y had been paying 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect;  service  a debt to Quick  Quid over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr Y lost out because Quick Quid provided loans four to 11 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ys indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
Ref: DRN17065083the extended period of time he owed Quick Quid money was likely to have had 
negative implications on Mr Ys ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
I appreciate what QuickQuid says about  the mere  number  of loans being an insufficient 
basis on which to conclude that the loans  were unsustainable. But QuickQuid will know  from 
previous decisions  that there are cases where this service considers the overall  lending  
pattern and not just the affordability of each loan.  
When a consumer borrows  a number of times over an extended period, its most likely that 
the consumer  isnt using the loans for their intended purpose  that is to help with temporary  
cash flow problems.
So Im upholding  Mr Ys complaint about  loans three to 11.
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr Y paid on loans three  to 11;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative entries about  loan three from Mr Ys credit file; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan four means that any information about loan 
four onwards is negative.  So all entries  about loans four to 11 should  be removed from 
Mr Ys credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ys complaint in part and direct  CashEuroNet UK LLC 
(trading as QuickQuid) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN1706508