K820x#14complaint
Ms B has complained about  three instalment loans she took out with Gain Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream). She says that the loans were  unaffordable.
background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms B and Lending Stream had told us. And he 
thought that the checks Lending  Stream carried out before giving Ms B her loans were  
proportionate. So he didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ms B disagreed  and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Ms Bs complaint.  
Ms B was provided with a high-interest  loan,  intended for short-term use. So Lending Stream  
needed to make sure that it didnt provide it irresponsibly.  In practice, what this means is that 
Lending Stream needed  to carry out proportionate  checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending  was sustainable for Ms B before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding Ms Bs 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Ms B took out two instalment loans for £200 and a third loan for £250 between  November  
2016 and April 2017. The loans were due to be repaid over a period of around  six months.  
Ms B only managed to pay loan one and as I understand it outstanding balances  remain on 
loans two and three.  
Lending Stream says it agreed to Ms Bs applications after shed provided details of her 
monthly income and expenditure.  It says the information Ms B provided on her income  and 
expenditure showed that shed be able to comfortably  make the repayments she was 
committing to. And in these circumstances  it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Ms B and Lending Stream have said. The first thing for me 
to say is that these  were  Ms Bs first loans with Lending  Stream. So I dont think there was 
any established pattern in Ms Bs borrowing  needs at this stage.
Ref: DRN12899512The information provided does suggest that Ms B was asked to provide details of her income 
and expenditure.  Bearing  in mind the amount of the monthly repayments,  the questions  
Lending Stream asked  Ms B and these were Ms Bs first loans, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Lending Stream to rely on the information Ms B was providing.
I accept that Ms Bs actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information she 
provided, or the other  information Lending Stream obtained. And Ive seen what  Ms B has 
said about the searches on her credit file. But as far as I can see these  were  in April 2017  
and even then these were an administrative review and an identification check. So they 
wont have provided  anything like the same level of detail as a full credit check. 
Equally Lending Stream could only make  its decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending  relationship,  I dont think proportionate 
checks wouldve extended  into Lending  Stream carrying  out a full review  of Ms Bs finances.  
Id also add that its only fair for me to uphold a complaint where I can safely  say a lender did 
something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream  did anything wrong in 
deciding to lend to Ms B - it carried out proportionate  check  even though  its possible the 
information it mightve been provided  with was inaccurate. Lending  Stream  reasonably relied  
on the information provided and given the amount of the repayments  involved and Ms Bs 
loan history,  I dont  think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream  to lend  especially as 
there wasnt anything  obvious, in the information  it had, to suggest Ms B wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay  these loans.
So overall I think the checks Lending Stream carried out were proportionate. As this is the 
case, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint.  I appreciate this will be very disappointing for      
Ms B. But I hope shell understand  the reasons for my decision and that shell  at least  feel 
her concerns  have  been listened to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1289951