K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain as directors of P, a limited company, that U K Insurance Limited told 
them their business  protection  insurance policy hadnt been set up properly and they had to 
cancel the policy and take out a new one. 
background
Mr W is a plumber and electrician. He carries out his work through a limited company   P. 
Mr W is a director  of the company and his wife, Mrs W, is the company secretary. In March 
2011, Mrs W set up an insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited  (UKI). It was called a 
Tradesman Policy and provided cover for things like public liability.  As company secretary, 
she put her details as a point of contact. The policy was renewed each year.
When speaking to UKI in May 2018,  Mrs W was told the policy had been set up incorrectly  
and that Mr W wasnt  covered. Mr and Mrs W were very concerned  about  the possibility that 
their business had been operating for seven years with unsuitable insurance cover.
UKI said it would  have to cancel the policy and set up a new one with Mr Ws details on it 
instead of Mrs W. UKI said it wouldnt charge any cancellation fee and would indemnify 
Mr W for any claims that may arise  from his work over the previous seven years.
Mr and Mrs W said they wanted  a refund of all the premiums paid from 2011 to 2018 on the 
basis that they hadnt received the policy they asked  for. Mr W said his wife wouldnt have 
set the policy up in her name and none  of the policy documents sent to him said it was 
Mrs W who was insured,  not him. So he had no way of knowing he wasnt  covered.
UKI didnt  agree to refund the premiums  so Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator said it wasnt clear why the original policy was incorrect   the policy documents  
all show the policyholder is P. Any work Mr W undertakes is on behalf  of the company. So 
she thought he was appropriately insured under the original  policy.
The investigator asked  UKI why it said the original policy was incorrect. She said it was P  a 
limited company  that had the insurable  interest. And P was the policyholder. So it seemed 
the policy was set up correctly.
The investigator didnt  think UKI needed to refund all the premiums  because there was 
appropriate insurance in place. But Mr and Mrs W were put to the trouble of cancelling a 
suitable policy and setting up a new one unnecessarily,  and the amount of business hours 
spent on this would be inconvenient. So she asked UKI to pay £150  compensation to P for 
the trouble caused to the company.
Mr and Mrs W accepted the investigators  recommendation  but UKI didnt. It has requested  
an ombudsmans decision. In summary, UKI says:
its not for the ombudsman to decide  whether  a policy was set up correctly  it has 
confirmed it wasnt and provided  evidence of this; 
it didnt charge a cancellation fee, and confirmed  cover,  but just wanted  the policy set 
up correctly going forward;
its system  doesnt allow a change in the name of the insured - a new policy must be 
taken out;
Ref: DRN10711412it needs the business owner to answer the questions about the cover  needed,  to the 
best of their ability, and the business owner  may not have confirmed all the relevant  
details to his partner;
the investigator hasnt  recognised the need  to have an insured interest when taking a 
quote - in the law of insurance, the insured must  have an interest in the subject 
matter of their policy, otherwise the policy will be void and unenforceable;
the original policy  did cover P but with the wrong  policyholder  and business  owner.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint turns on whether the policy was set up correctly. UKI says it wasnt   
because it was in the name of Mrs W and it should  have been  in Mr Ws name, since  he was 
the business owner and the person with an insurable interest.  I dont think thats  correct  and 
Ill explain  why.
Mr W is a plumber and electrician. Its true that hes the person who carries out the work. But 
that doesnt mean hes the person with an insurable interest. The business  is set up as a 
limited company  P. That company is a separate legal entity in its own right.  Both Mr and 
Mrs W can both provide  information to UKI and deal with it on behalf of the company. And 
its generally the company secretary who would deal with administrative matters  including, 
for example, insurance.
Any work done is carried out in the name of the limited  company  P. Mr W isnt doing work 
in his own name. So its P that has an insurable  interest. Not Mr W (or, for that matter, 
Mrs W). And the insurance will provide  cover  for P, not for Mr W personally.
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that the policy was set up correctly   it shows 
P as the policyholder. So I dont think there was any need for UKI to change  that. 
 
Mr and Mrs W were put to some trouble having to cancel the policy  and take out a new one. 
I understand the new policy  Mr and Mrs W have taken out is with another insurer.  So they 
wouldnt wish to reinstate  the cover  with UKI. I note that UKI has confirmed  it would 
indemnify any claims that may arise from the period when  the policy was in force.
As they were acting  on behalf of P I cant consider any distress this may have caused  them  
personally. But I can award compensation for inconvenience caused  to the company. Im 
satisfied it took some  time to sort things out, which would have taken  them away  from their 
normal business activity.  And I think the sum of £150 our investigator recommended for this 
is fair. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  U K Insurance Limited to pay 
compensation to P of £150.
Ref: DRN10711413Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W (on 
behalf of P) to accept  or reject my decision before  21 February 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1071141