K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) didnt complete proper 
checks to make sure the loan she applied for was affordable.
background
Mrs J took out a 24-month instalment  loan from Likely Loans on 30 August 2016. It was 
for £2000 and the monthly repayments were £151.92. The total repayable  was 
£3646.08. I understand the loan remains  outstanding  and the debt was sold to a third 
party in January 2019.
Mrs J said Likely Loans didnt check the affordability  of the loan for her and she 
had too many loans.  Likely Loans  said it asked Mrs J for her income and 
residential status and carried  out a credit check.  Together these checks showed 
the loan was affordable for Mrs J. 
Our adjudicator found that Likely Loans  did not lend irresponsibly to Mrs J. Mrs J 
disagreed saying we had not considered that she is behind with her bills and 
struggling with everyday  living  expenses,  as well as other  loans with different 
lenders. The adjudicator  explained that at the time of this loan Mrs Js credit  report 
didnt show any arrears  on utility  bills or council tax; the repayments  on her two 
active loans were up to date; and the other  loans  she has referred  to were either 
settled, or taken out after this loan. 
Mrs J remained  unhappy, so the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints  is set out on our website 
and Ive followed it here.
The rules  and regulations when Likely Loans lent to Mrs J required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or an affordability check.
The checks  also had to be borrower-focused. So Likely Loans had to think  about  
whether repaying  the credit sustainably would  cause any difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mrs J. In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely  Loans  to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of the 
repayments on Mrs J.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent  upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied 
for.
Ref: DRN16730422In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
-the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
repayments to credit  from a lower  level of income);
-the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to 
meet higher repayments  from a particular  level of income);
-the longer the period of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater  and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate 
check shouldve been for a given application   including  (but not limited to) any 
indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes  in future 
circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Likely Loans did 
what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Mrs J. So to reach my conclusion I have 
considered the following questions:
-did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing  
Mrs Js loan application  to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
-if not, what  would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown? 
-did Likely Loans make a fair lending decision?
-did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Likely Loans asked for some  information  from Mrs J before it approved the 
loan. It asked for details  of her annual income  and her residential status. It says it also 
checked Mrs Js credit file. It has shared what it says is a high-level  overview  of the 
customers financial status  upon  application  but adds that this represents just a small 
proportion of the data it gathered. From what it has shared I can see it looked at the 
number of accounts Mrs J had, her credit  balance, credit score  and calculated a debt to 
income ratio. It has not explained  what the rest of the data was that it collected, or what  
it showed. From these checks combined  Likely Loans concluded Mrs J had enough 
monthly disposable income to afford  to repay  the loan.
It has also provided a more detailed credit  file with a search date of April 2019 (so over 
two years after the loan application). It has explained that it would have extracted 
detailed data like this from Mrs Js credit file at the time of the application,  but it does not 
store this. However,  it says this report shows the status of Mrs Js credit commitments 
that it would  have seen at the time of the lending.  
Mrs J said her annual income  was £24,000 and that she was renting her home,  the loan 
purpose was captured as other. The high-level overview from Likely  Loans credit  check  
shows that Mrs J had total debts of £1500 and four active accounts. 
The lender  says her credit  file shows she was meeting all her credit commitments  at the 
time and it can approximate that she had monthly credit commitments of £128.00 Given  
the April 2019  search  date of the credit  file and the fact it did not record the full data it 
extracted as part of its credit check,  I cant know whether Likely Loans knew  this at the 
time of the application, or if this is solely retrospective analysis. 
Ref: DRN16730423However, that aside,  based on the above, I dont think  Likely Loans affordability  checks  
were proportionate or borrower-focused. Mrs J was applying for a loan over a term of 24 
months and although the monthly repayment was low as a percentage of her income, 
Likely Loans hasnt  shown it made  any kind of estimate about  what  her total monthly 
expenditure might be. Given it was deciding if Mrs J could sustainably afford to repay a 
loan over a two-year period, I think it needed  to understand this.
 
So, Ive looked  at what I think proportionate  checks would likely have shown. As Likely 
Loans has said the April 2019 credit file shows Mrs J was repaying two other loans and 
a credit card at the time of this loan application.  This may not reflect  all other  borrowing 
Mrs J had at the time - or what  she would  have seen on her full credit file - as not all 
lenders report to all the credit refence  agencies, and timing can be an issue, but Im 
satisfied it is largely reliable. 
And I think Likely Loans assumptions about  the monthly value of her total credit  
commitments is fair. In response to the adjudicators  view Mrs J said that she had a 
number of other credit products. But as the adjudicator explained  these were  either  
settled in full before the date of this loan, or taken out after it, so it would not be 
reasonable to conclude  that Likely Loans  should  have considered them. Overall, I can 
see nothing on Mrs Js credit file that I think should  have led Likely  Loans to make a 
different lending decision. 
Ive also looked  at Mrs Js bank statements from June 2016 to try to understand her 
typical monthly living costs at around  the time of her loan application. I am not saying 
that Likely Loans ought to have reviewed her bank statements, but this could have been 
one way for it to make  sure it understood her outgoings  before deciding the loan was 
affordable. It isnt wholly clear what fixed monthly  outgoings Mrs J had, it seems she 
transferred part of her salary to her husband. So I am assuming the household bills and 
other essential items were largely paid for from his account. But I havent  found any 
indication that Mrs Js monthly costs were  such that she didnt have enough disposable 
income to make the repayments sustainably for this loan. 
It follows I dont think if Likely Loans  had completed proportionate checks that it ought to 
have reached a different lending decision. I know  Mrs J will be disappointed, and Im 
sorry that she is now struggling financially and has been unable to repay this loan,  but I 
dont think the lender  could reasonably have known this. Based on her circumstances at 
the time of this loan I dont think Likely Loans  did anything  wrong.  
Finally, I have considered  whether Likely Loans  acted  unfairly  or unreasonably  in some 
other way. I can see that it agreed to a reduced repayment plan after Mrs J notified  it 
that she was having  financial difficulties, and why. It has subsequently sold the debt to a 
third party, but I cant see that it has acted  incorrectly in its dealings with Mrs J.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 March  2021.
Rebecca Connelley
Ref: DRN16730424ombudsman
Ref: DRN1673042