K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about BISL Limiteds  handling  of his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr Bs car insurance is branded under his banks  name. But his bank isnt the actual insurer. 
The insurer  is another business. BISL  are an insurance broker. They arrange and administer 
car insurance policies  on behalf of Mr Bs bank.  So when  Mr B told his bank he wanted car 
insurance through them, his bank asked BISL to find an insurance  policy  for Mr B, which 
they did. Mr B has had this arrangement for a number of years.
There is a separate  complaint against  the insurer of the policy which  has been dealt with 
under a different reference number.  So this decision is limited to the issues relating to BISL.
Mr B said that on 9 February  2016, he was involved in a very minor accident with another 
car. He said that he was reversing while in a car park when he bumped into another car that 
was also reversing. He said the other car drove off without exchanging details. Mr B called 
BISL to report the incident a week later on 16 February 2016. He said during that call that 
both he and the other driver were  equally  to blame  for the accident  and that his car only 
suffered a very small scratch which he didnt want to claim for. He said the main reason for 
his call was to alert the broker that he had received a call from a claims company, who he 
believed were fraudsters,  encouraging him to make  a claim.
He agreed to the accident being recorded  as a notification only  and he said he would not 
claim for the damage to his car. BISL advised Mr B to also report  the incident to the insurer, 
which he did. The insurer  recorded the accident as notification only  on a shared insurance 
database called The Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). CUE keeps information 
about policyholders insurance histories. And most of the insurance industry has access to 
that information.
Mr B complained to BISL in 2018 when he received his renewal quote. He wasnt happy that 
his premium had increased and that the 2016  accident appeared in his policy documentation 
under claims or accidents and that there  was a suggestion that his car was damaged. 
The February 2016 accident had appeared in all of Mr Bs policy renewals since  the accident 
and he said that he was promised by the BISL  in 2017 that it would be removed, but it hadnt 
been.
Mr B said that when he reported  the matter in February 2016, he did so only to alert BISL  
and the insurer  of the possible  fraud and not to make a claim. He said he has been unfairly 
penalised by having the incident wrongly recorded  against his record  as a claim and 
accident that resulted in damage.
Mr B also complained that BISL  had recorded  two other non-existent  accidents against  his 
policy in the past.
BISL didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B then brought his complaint  to our service.  One of 
our adjudicators looked into it. He felt that BISL hadnt done anything  wrong. As Mr B didnt  
agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 July 2019. I said:
Ref: DRN11580202Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr B, but Im not intending  to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr Bs points  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what 
I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if BISL have dealt with Mr B in a 
fair and reasonable way.
the promise to remove  the February  2016 accident from CUE
BISL said that they didnt tell Mr B that they would remove the 2016  accident from 
CUE. Mr B is adamant that they did. Mr B asked our service  to listen to the recording 
of the call he had with BISL when  he was promised that. But BISL  have no record  of 
such a conversation having ever taken place. I therefore have to decide  on the 
evidence thats  available  to me.
Given the record on CUE was made by the insurer and not by BISL, they couldn't  
have altered or removed the record themselves. So I dont think they would have told 
Mr B they would remove it. Furthermore,  as the accident was correctly  recorded on 
CUE, I dont  see any reason why BISL  would  have felt it was appropriate to remove 
it. Especially as companies within the insurance industry have an obligation to record  
things accurately. Im therefore not intending  to uphold this part of the complaint.
other accidents wrongly recorded against Mr B.
Mr B said that BISL have  twice before told him that they had recorded accidents  
against him only to later tell him they had made a mistake and corrected it. BISL 
have told our service that they have no record of that ever happening. BISL have 
also confirmed that the only accident  thats  recorded  on CUE against  Mr Bs record  is 
the one from February 2016. So I am satisfied  that there are no other accidents 
recorded against Mr B that could impact his premiums. Im therefore not intending to 
uphold this part of the complaint.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. BISL accepted  my provisional findings.  
Mr B said he wanted to withdraw his complaint.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr B said he no longer wished to pursue his 
complaint. So I've considered very carefully  whether  or not to close the case  without issuing 
a final decision.  But I need to be fair to both sides  and given that the matter has progressed 
this far, in order to bring it to a final conclusion, as far as the involvement of this office is 
concerned, then I think the fair and reasonable thing  to do is to issue  this final decision.  Mr B 
doesn't have to accept it but if he does  it will become binding on both parties.
Ref: DRN11580203my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.   
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1158020