K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  that British Gas Insurance Limited  (BG) failed to provide a satisfactory 
annual service of her boiler under her HomeCare policy.
background
Mrs L had a HomeCare  policy  with BG for several years. An annual  boiler  service,  which  she 
received as part of the policy, was due in May 2019.  She says that when BGs  engineer  
attended he didnt  undertake a full service or safety check. She says he didnt have the 
necessary testing equipment with him, he didnt check the radiators, and he didnt take the 
front cover off the boiler. She says he seemed  more  focussed on trying  to get her to change 
her boiler.
Eventually she asked  him to leave. Before he did so, he asked her to sign a service  sheet 
which she did just to get rid of him. She says her service visit was totally unacceptable.  
Shed taken the day off work  and fully expected more from BG considering how much  the 
service plan cost her annually. 
Mrs L complained to BG. She said shed  paid £447.36 for HomeCare cover from BG that 
year and hadnt made any claims, and all she was going to get for her premium was an 
annual boiler service, and this had been totally unsatisfactory. She cancelled her policy and 
asked for a refund of that years premium. 
BG offered Mrs L another annual service visit, but by this stage shed lost faith in BG, and 
arranged for her boiler to be serviced by an independent engineer.  He undertook  a thorough  
inspection of her system,  adjusted the heating level which had been a bit low, which cost her 
£89 plus VAT. 
BG said it couldnt refund Mrs Ls premium, but it offered her £30 as a goodwill gesture, and 
refunded her £22.85 as the pro rata premium for what  remained of the policy  year. 
Mrs L wasnt satisfied with BGs response to her complaint and brought  it to this service. Our 
investigators view was that as Mrs L had had the benefit of insurance cover  for the policy year 
up to the point at which  she cancelled it, it wasnt fair to recommend that BG refunded her 
premium in full. But he did recommend  that BG refund to Mrs L that part of the premium  that 
reflected the cost of the annual service, namely  £65. He recommended  that BG pay Mrs L 
compensation of £100 to cover the annual service and compensation for the inconvenience of 
having to take another day off work  to accommodate a service visit by her own engineer.
BG didnt  agree with our investigators view and provided some  further  information.  It provided 
evidence of checks undertaken  by its engineer in the form of a screenshot  of readings hed 
taken. It maintained that a proper service had been undertaken and that its offer to send 
another engineer to undertake another service was a reasonable response to Mrs Ls 
dissatisfaction.
Mrs L responded to the further comments from BG. Our investigator continued to be of the 
view that there were issues with the service BG had provided, and that his initial 
recommended settlement  was appropriate. BG didnt provide any further response.
Mrs Ls complaint has therefore been passed  to me to make  a final decision. 
Ref: DRN14779612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint and 
Ill explain  why.
I can appreciate Mrs Ls frustration that, having paid £447.36 for her annual  HomeCare  
cover, and not having required any visits during the year,  she didnt even get what she 
considered to be a proper  annual service. Theres clearly some  disagreement  as to exactly  
what BGs engineer  did when he attended Mrs Ls property. According to Mrs L, he was only 
there for 22 minutes and in that time asked  her five times about changing her boiler because  
of its age and the unavailability of parts. This seems to me somewhat excessive and beyond  
what BG says its engineers had a duty to draw to a customers  attention.
But I think what is important is what BGs engineer did or didnt do as far as the annual  
service is concerned. BG has said:
Our engineers would also always carry out a combustion check using a Flue gas 
analyser; they would check the gas rate/pressure and the integrity  of the flue; and 
would carry out a visual inspection of the combustion chamber. Should these check  
highlight any issues, or should there be any visible issues, such as a water leak or 
corrosion, further  checks would be carried out and the appliance would be either  
repaired or made safe. (my emphasis underlined)
I believe that certain checks are undertaken at the flue, where output gases can be 
analysed. BG has provided  evidence  of analysis done by the engineer, so I cant say that no 
checks were done. But BG hasnt  taken issue with Mrs Ls assertion  that the engineer never  
removed the cover of the boiler. Without  doing so, I dont see how a visual inspection of the 
combustion chamber  couldve been  undertaken, nor how any water leaks  or corrosion 
couldve been identified.
So I therefore consider that even on BGs own statement as to what  an annual service 
should include, the service undertaken on Mrs Ls system doesnt  appear to have been as 
thorough as it shouldve been.  I think it was reasonable  for Mrs L to reject BGs  offer of 
another service  by another  BG engineer, particularly as shes said that previous  experiences  
had given her cause to doubt the thoroughness  of services by some BG engineers.
I take into account that Mrs Ls HomeCare policy covers a number of things,  and I have no 
reason to doubt that if Mrs L had had cause to make a claim during the term of the policy, 
BG wouldve attended. Its in the nature of insurance policies that premiums are paid to 
cover events that one hopes will not occur. But as BGs HomeCare premiums  include an 
annual service, which represents £65 of the annual premium, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for this sum to be refunded to Mrs L. And I agree with our investigator that 
compensation of £100 would be reasonable to cover  this and also the inconvenience  that 
Mrs L suffered in having to take time off work to accommodate a second service visit. 
So Im going to require BG to pay Mrs L compensation of £100.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint.
Ref: DRN14779613I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs L compensation of £100.
This compensation must  be paid within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mrs L accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1477961