K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold a business loan to him. Hed like Lloyds to 
write off the loan balance and pay compensation.
background
Mr M opened a business account and took out a business loan with Lloyds in April 2015. He 
was buying a business. He says the loan should have been in the name of a limited 
company. He says he didnt know  that Lloyds had wrongly put the loan in his own name.  
In 2018 Mr M closed the business and dissolved the limited company. Lloyds said Mr M was 
liable for the loan, which Mr M disputes. Mr M says Lloyds  didnt provide documents hed 
asked for related to the loan application.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
the loan proceeds  were paid into Mr Ms account  in mid-April 2015. The limited company 
was set up after this, in July 2015. The loan account statements say Mr M, T/AS. It 
was unlikely the loan was taken out by the limited company.  
Lloyds had tried to locate the documents Mr M asked for, without success. This had 
caused delays  in it responding to Mr M. 
Lloyds had explained why it debited loan payments  from Mr Ms account. As the 
payments were owed,  it hadnt  acted unreasonably.  
Lloyds refunded charges of about £225  and offered  £200  compensation for poor service. 
The investigator said this was fair.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said Lloyds  should  have kept copies of the application documents.  He 
said he thought  his name was on statements because he was a director of the limited 
company. Mr M says he wouldnt have taken  out the loan if hed known it was in his name. 
Mr M has also raised concerns about  how another signatory was added to the business  
account. Hes raised  this with Lloyds and its looking into this for him. If he isnt satisfied with 
Lloyds response,  he may then be able to bring  this new issue to our service. This issue  isnt 
part of the complaint Im looking into and I wont make any findings  about it here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
the application documents and available evidence
Lloyds cant provide the loan agreement or any notes made by Lloyds manager when he 
discussed the loan with Mr M. But it has provided evidence, including  its internal notes and 
Ref: DRN16670122statements for both the business account  and the loan account. I think I have enough  
evidence to reach a fair decision about  this complaint.
what happened when  the loan was taken out?
Mr M doesnt dispute that a loan was taken  out in April 2015  to fund his business.  Mr M says 
the loan was mis-sold  as he didnt intend to take out a loan in his own name.  He says the 
loan was mis-sold regardless of whether his name is on the loan agreement  as this wasnt  
his intention. So while it might be helpful if we had a copy  of the loan agreement, this 
wouldnt necessarily satisfy Mr Ms concerns.
Mr M says the loan should  have been in the name of a limited  company. However, the loan 
was taken out in April 2015, three months before the limited company was incorporated in 
July 2015. So I dont think the limited  company can have taken out the loan in April 2015. 
Mr M says it wasnt his intention to take out a loan in his own name. But if hed wanted the 
loan to be taken  out by the limited company hed have had to wait until it was incorporated. 
Mr M would have known  in April 2015 that the limited company hadnt yet been  incorporated.  
So when he applied for and agreed  to the loan it can only have been on the basis it would be 
in his name. The account statements support this. Im sorry if Mr M misunderstood the 
situation. But I havent seen any evidence that Lloyds misled  him about this. 
Theres no evidence that Mr M later asked Lloyds  to refinance the loan with a loan to the 
limited company, or that Lloyds agreed  to do this. 
Statements for the loan account  were  sent to Mr M. The name  on the account is: Mr M T/AS 
[name of business].  Mr M says he didnt know what the term trading as meant. But I dont 
think Lloyds needed  to explain this to a business customer   and of course Mr M could 
always have asked if he wasnt  sure. 
The loan proceeds were paid into Mr Ms business account. It appears  they were  used 
towards the costs  of buying and setting  up the business. So Mr M had the benefit  of the 
money. In the circumstances,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to write 
off the balance owed. 
continuing to take direct debit payments from the business account 
Mr M cancelled direct  debits from the business account when he closed the business.  Lloyds 
took loan repayments and applied  charges.  It says Mr M cant  cancel  the direct  debit  without 
putting another arrangement in place for the loan repayments. 
Mr M doesnt agree. But based on the available evidence I think hes liable for the loan 
repayments. Lloyds  refunded account charges of £225.10. As the payments taken from the 
business account were  for loan repayments that Mr M owed, I dont think  he suffered a loss. 
So I wont  ask Lloyds  to do anything further  about  this.
delays in responding to Mr M.
Lloyds was unable  to locate documents requested by Mr M and this led to delays in it 
responding to him. Lloyds offered £200 compensation for poor service. I think, in the 
circumstances, this is fair.
Ref: DRN16670123my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find that the compensation offered by 
Lloyds Bank  Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1667012