K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs M say Bank  of Scotland plc mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr M and Mrs M bought the policy in 2004  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £409.72 a month towards  Mr M and Mrs Ms 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £24.81 a month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a farm worker.  He has told us he was entitled to 
between three- and six-months  sick pay if he was unable to work.  And three to six months 
pay if he was made  redundant. Bank  of Scotlands  records suggest Mr M had a heart 
condition at the time of sale, but Mr M insists he did not. He has, however, said he suffered 
from back pain in 1996.
Mrs M was not covered  by the PPI policy and she was not in work  at the time. 
Bank of Scotland has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 
November 2004.  
Mr M and Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr M and Mrs Ms representative  says:
Bank of Scotland failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr M and 
Mrs Ms representatives believe  there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bank of Scotland 
should have told Mr M and Mrs M about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bank of Scotland should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr M and 
Mrs M and the impact they would have had on their chances  of making a claim;
Ref: DRN16776812The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr M and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr M and Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here,  but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004, before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN16776813The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Bank of Scotland, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Bank  of Scotland at the time. So, Im satisfied  I should  take these codes 
into account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of Mr M and Mrs Ms case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Bank of Scotland was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Bank  of Scotland gave advice, whether it advised Mr M and Mrs M with reasonable 
care and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Bank of Scotland gave Mr M and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M 
and Mrs M, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr M and 
Ref: DRN16776814Mrs M suffered loss or damage  and what I consider  would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and Mrs M 
and Bank  of Scotland, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.  Ive set out 
my reasoning below.  
did Mr M and Mrs M know they had a choice?
Bank of Scotland had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Bank of Scotland has provided  a copy of the mortgage illustration and the mortgage offer. 
Both set out that the PPI is optional and provide the monthly price  of the policy  separately  to 
the monthly mortgage repayment.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr M and Mrs M knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Bank of Scotland provide advice?
Both Bank of Scotland and Mr M and Mrs M agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  Bank of Scotland had to advise Mr M and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, 
in particular whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs  and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Bank  of Scotland took some steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr M and Mrs M. The adviser likely had information about  some of Mr 
M and Mrs Ms financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  
theres some evidence that questions were asked to try and establish whether Mr M and 
Mrs M had a need for the policy  such as about how much  they worked and their health   I 
dont think Bank of Scotland did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. This is because the 
questions alone  dont appear sufficient  to do this.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr M and Mrs M given their 
circumstances. So, Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland advised  with reasonable care and 
skill.
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr M and Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr M and Mrs M had a need  for the policy  Mr M was the main wage earner and it 
seems likely Mr M and Mrs Ms finances  would be put under strain if he was not 
working  even allowing for the sickness and redundancy  benefits  he was entitled  to. 
Ref: DRN16776815The policy would have helped  Mr M and Mrs M manage the consequences were  
Mr M unable  to work.
-Although Mr M and Mrs M say they were financially stretched at the time, Ive seen  
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr M and Mrs M. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ms employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr M has told 
us about having back pain in 1996. But I dont think this made the policy  unsuitable, 
given he was still able to work at that time and the condition  doesnt appear to have 
recurred in the years  between then and 2004,  when  the PPI was taken out. With 
regards Bank of Scotlands records showing  Mr M had a heart condition  at the time of 
sale, it seems  unlikely  that was the case given Mr M insists  he has never had such a 
condition. Its unclear how Bank of Scotland came to record  that information,  but it 
has no bearing on my decision now that Mr M has clarified that the information was 
incorrect.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr M be disabled  or unemployed 
for 30 days before he could make a claim and the fact the policy would  only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 24 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr Ms circumstances,  including their employers sickness  and redundancy 
provisions (which  they might expect  to provide an income during the policys 
30-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr M and Mrs M be unable to make 
the repayments on loans secured against their home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Bank  of Scotland  gave Mr M and 
Mrs M sufficient information about the cover provided by the policy to enable  them  to 
understand what Bank of Scotland was recommending to them and make an informed 
decision about whether to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr M and Mrs M were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr M was unable  to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr M and Mrs M would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be. They 
were also told the cost of the policy in the mortgage  illustration and mortgage offer.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Bank  of Scotland  gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit or about the exclusions or limitations 
before Mr M and Mrs M agreed to take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN16776816Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M and Mrs M, Im not persuaded 
Bank of Scotland did enough to present information  about the policy  it was recommending  in 
a way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland gave Mr M 
and Mrs M all of the information they needed  about  the policy to make  an informed decision 
about whether  to follow the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr M and Mrs Ms representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr M and 
Mrs Ms. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr M and Mrs Ms representative  considers  to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr M and Mrs M have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Bank  of Scotland ought to have done either. 
what effect did Bank of Scotlands shortcomings have on Mr M and Mrs M? To what 
extent did Mr M and Mrs M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Bank of Scotland didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr M and Mrs M. So, I have gone  on to consider whether  it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr M and Mrs M suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mr M and Mrs M would have still taken out the policy,  had Bank  of 
Scotland done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland took the steps it should  have done to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr M and Mrs M, I have found  that the 
policy was ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M and Mrs M have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Bank of Scotland  had explained 
things properly, Mr M and Mrs M would have acted  differently, or whether  they would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.
Ref: DRN16776817Mr M and Mrs M say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M and Mrs M had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Bank of Scotland advised  them  that 
there was a suitable product they could buy, that would protect  their mortgage payments in 
the event they were  unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr M and Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr M and Mrs M were given about the cost 
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit,  
limitations and exclusions  werent as clear as it should have been.  
Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland made clear exactly what Mr M and Mrs M would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr M and 
Mrs Ms expectations about what the policy  would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy actually  paid more  in the 
event of a claim than they would have expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr M 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  and that 
recurred in the first 12 months of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him for;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr M and Mrs M pause for thought   and may well have caused  them  to conclude  the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
Ref: DRN16776818on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M and Mrs M from taking out the 
policy. 
The evidence about Mr M and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr M was eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
Mr M and Mrs M should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr M says he had 
a medical condition when the PPI was taken out and the policy may not have  provided  cover 
had he needed  time off work because of this condition, I dont think  better information about 
this exclusion would  have  put Mr M and Mrs M off agreeing to it. I say this because it 
appears the condition only occurred in 1996  and hadnt caused him to take any time off 
work. 
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr M and 
Mrs M might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be 
able to make  a disability  claim without  having to provide  some  evidence to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr M and Mrs M from taking out the policy, Mr M and Mrs M, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr M and Mrs M had known Mr M could only claim for disability  if he was not only unable 
to do his job or any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into Mr M and Mrs Ms thinking about 
what they would do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although given 
Mr M and Mrs Ms circumstances  and the limited  other means they had to make their 
repayments if Mr M wasnt working, on balance, I still think they would have been interested  
in taking out the cover.
Bank of Scotland may not have told Mr M and Mrs M that any claim they made  would be 
limited to a 24-month  period. This may have  differed  from what they expected and might 
have hoped for. But 24 months was a longer period than Mr M would have received full sick 
pay for, and his redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 24 months income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr M and Mrs M would still have thought a policy  
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr M be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr Ms sick pay or redundancy money for 
other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M and Mrs M would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr M was made redundant or 
was unable to work  through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more  
likely than not Mr M and Mrs M would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding 
the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN16776819Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable. 
Considering the purpose of the guidance,  I dont think it was ever intended  to be at odds  with 
the approach  I have  taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M and Mrs M would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr M and Mrs 
Ms circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
and Mrs M found themselves in, as a result  of the sale,  was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr M and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M and Mrs M in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Bank  of Scotland should  pay Mr M and Mrs M compensation, as 
that would  put them  in a better position  than they would have been in if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr M and Mrs M think Bank of Scotland  misrepresented  the terms of the 
policy in how it described the PPI.  While  I accept  there is a possibility a court might 
conclude some of Bank of Scotlands  statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion 
the reason why Bank of Scotland  failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what 
it did or didnt say in the information  it provided   but because the overall information Bank of 
Scotland gave  Mr M and Mrs M, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I 
consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2004 when providing  information 
about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr M and Mrs Ms representative says a court might 
take if it were to find Bank of Scotland negligently misrepresented  the contract  to Mr M and 
Mrs M and about the remedy a court  might  award if it were to find that Bank  of Scotland had 
Ref: DRN167768110been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my 
conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  
including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons 
Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable  to put Mr M and Mrs M in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1677681