K820x#14Complaint
Mrs D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC Bank) mis-sold her and her late husband 
a cluster trust arrangement.  She has also complained that HSBC Bank didnt inform  the 
professional trustee  that her husband had passed  away, which  has had tax implications.
Background
In July 1999 Mrs D and her late husband Mr D received advice from HSBC Bank to invest  in 
two investment bonds. Each bond  contained  20 separate  policies with a value of £2,500 
which was payable on second death.  They were  advised  to place these in a cluster  trust 
arrangement.
Sadly, Mr D passed away in November 2014.  Mrs D says she contacted HSBC Bank to 
inform it of her husbands passing. She said she assumed that HSBC Bank would let all of 
the investment  providers  know. However, after deciding to start the process of assigning  the 
policies to the beneficiaries in 2018,  which required the surrender of one policy  to pay for it, 
Mrs D says she was told that a higher rate of tax was payable  on the gain the policy  had 
made.
Mrs D complained. She said that she and her late husband had been led to believe no tax 
would be payable when  the policies were  surrendered or redeemed. She believed the 
arrangement had been mis-sold. Mrs D was also unhappy having found  out that HSBC  Bank  
didnt inform the professional trustee   HSBC Trust Company (UK) Ltd (HSBC Trust)   that 
Mr D had passed away until April 2015. Mrs D said if HSBC  Trust had been notified straight 
away she wouldve been informed  about  her options then and couldve surrendered the 
policy at the time. This wouldve meant she could use her late husbands tax allowance  to 
reduce the tax payable.
HSBC Bank  told Mrs D that she had made her complaint  about  the advice too late under the 
regulators rules.  It said HSBC  Trust had written to her in May and July 2015 after learning 
about Mr Ds passing. It said the July 2015 letter had set out the tax implications of 
surrendering or assigning  the underlying bonds, so Mrs D ought to have been  aware  of her 
cause for complaint then. As she hadnt complained within three years of this date the 
complaint had been made too late. HSBC Bank said that it wouldnt have passed on 
information about Mr Ds passing to HSBC  Trust or the investment providers as these were  
separate legal  entities.
Mrs D referred  her complaint to our service. She said she hadnt  received the letter  of 
July 2015 and added that she was unhappy  with the time taken by HSBC Trust to assign the 
policies to the beneficiaries.
Our investigator told Mrs D that he thought shed made her complaint about  the advice too 
late. He didnt think that HSBC Bank  had done  anything wrong by not informing HSBC Trust 
of Mr Ds passing and said that if Mrs D was unhappy with the time taken to assign the 
policies to the beneficiaries, she would need  to refer a separate  complaint to HSBC  Trust.
Mrs D didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman  to consider the matter.
Ref: DRN15067782My findings
The issues  I cant consider
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules say that, where a 
business doesnt consent (as HSBC Bank doesnt  here), I cant  consider a complaint made 
more than six years after the event complained  of, or if later,  more  than three  years  after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of their cause for 
complaint.
Mrs D has complained about the advice given by HSBC Bank in July 1999 to set up a cluster 
trust arrangement and place investment bonds into it. Mrs D says that she and her late 
husband were  led to believe that no tax would be payable, but after recently  surrendering 
one of the policies, she and the trust has incurred a tax liability.  Mrs D believes  the trust 
arrangement was mis-sold.
Under the first part of the rule Ive set out above, Mrs D had until July 2005  to complain 
about the advice. However,  she didnt complain to HSBC  Bank  about  this until 
November 2018.  As this is more than six years after the advice  was given to Mrs D, I have to 
consider when she ought reasonably to have been aware of her cause for complaint.
HSBC Bank  says that the letter HSBC Trust sent Mrs D in 2015 shouldve alerted her to her 
concerns about  the tax implications. Ive reviewed a copy of the letter  dated 27 July 2015. 
Whilst the letter confirmed  there  werent  any inheritance tax implications for the investments, 
it stated:
When any investment becomes payable or is surrendered, any gain made  on the original  
investments have income tax implications. Any gain is initially  treated as already being  taxed 
at 20% by the Life Office then, additional  tax considerations need to be further assessed on 
the settlors of a trust.
If a settlor  is a basic rate taxpayer and the gain, when added to other  income does not move 
them into the higher or additional rate thresholds  for income tax, there will be no further tax 
due. If however the settlor is already  a higher  or additional rate tax payer  or when  adding  the 
gain to their income  this moves them into the higher or additional rate thresholds  for income 
tax, additional  income  tax will need  to be met by them.
As the bonds  were settled into trust jointly by you and your late husband, any gain is halved  
and assessed  on each settlor. However, as your late husband died in the previous tax year, 
if we were to consider  surrendering the policies, his half of the gain would immediately 
become liable for additional tax applicable  to trusts (currently 45%).
This part of the letter  directly  relates  to the complaint Mrs D has brought  to our service. So, 
I think this ought  reasonably to have given her awareness of her cause for complaint. And as 
this was sent to her more than three years before she made her complaint to HSBC Bank, 
I think she made the complaint too late.
Mrs D says she didnt receive this letter. But the letter is addressed  to her correctly,  and 
HSBC Trust has shown  us that it was dispatched. Mrs D hasnt provided us with any 
evidence to show that she had problems receiving  mail around this time. So, on balance, 
I think the letter was most  likely delivered.  Its possible  that Mrs D missed the letter, 
particularly as her husband  had recently passed  away so she had a lot to deal with at the 
Ref: DRN15067783time. But as I think the letter was delivered  to her, I think she ought  reasonably  to have been 
aware of its content.
Im not aware of any exceptional circumstances that would explain  the delay in Mrs D 
referring her complaint  to our service.  So, I cant consider this aspect of her complaint.
The issues  I can consider
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  given  by the investigator.
Mrs D has said that having  spoken to HSBC  Bank  about the tax implications of surrendering 
one of the policies held in trust, she has found  out that HSBC Bank didnt inform HSBC  Trust 
that Mr D had passed away. Mrs D said she had communicated this to HSBC Bank shortly 
after Mr Ds passing in 2014 and assumed it would inform HSBC  Trust. Mrs D said that if this 
had happened, she wouldve been  informed about  the tax treatment of the trust sooner and 
couldve surrendered  the policy in the same tax year, using Mr Ds tax allowance.
I appreciate why Mrs D felt that informing HSBC Bank of Mr Ds passing was sufficient, given 
the connection between the two companies.  But HSBC Trust is a separate legal entity, and 
Mr and Mrs D had a separate relationship with this company. So HSBC Bank recording that 
Mr D had passed away on its system wouldnt have notified HSBC  Trust that its customer 
had passed away.  The bonds also werent  HSBC products, so HSBC Bank wouldnt have 
held any details on its customer  systems about these investments. It was the responsibility 
of the executor of the estate of Mr D to inform each company that Mr D had an account or 
association with about his passing.  So, I dont think HSBC Bank did anything  wrong  here.
Im also not necessarily persuaded that Mrs D wouldve  surrendered the policy  in time to 
take advantage of Mr Ds tax allowance even if HSBC Trust had been informed straight 
away. Im mindful that she didnt  act on the letter she received in July 2015, so its difficult for 
me to conclude that she wouldve acted  on it promptly if it had been sent to her before the 
end of the tax year in April 2015.
Mrs D has also complained about  the time taken by HSBC Trust to assign the remaining 
bonds to the beneficiaries. As the investigator explained, Mrs D will need  to redirect this 
complaint to HSBC  Trust if she and the beneficiaries wish to take this further. So, I havent  
considered this further.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1506778