K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with Moneybarn  No. 
1 Limited (Moneybarn) has not been  of satisfactory  quality.
 
background
Mr H took receipt of a used car in September 2017. He financed  the deal through  a 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. At the point of supply the car was six years old 
and had already  completed nearly 90,000 miles.
In April 2018 Mr H noticed an engine noise and a garage replaced the clutch  and dual mass 
fly wheel. But during a subsequent test drive  the engine seized. An inspection  noted that the 
manifold had broken; the cam belt was worn;  oil was thick and dirty and the air conditioning 
needed re-gassing. The garage noted that on the pre-sale checklist the dealership had 
stated there  was an oil leak from oil filter seal and oil return pipe on back of sump and nsf 
inter cooler pipe. Mr H says the mechanic suggested it may be linked to the current  problem  
so he complained to Moneybarn  and asked them to pay for repairs.
Moneybarn didnt think they were liable. They said that they were  only responsible for the 
quality of the car at the point it was supplied to Mr H and that as it had failed after six months 
it was his responsibility to demonstrate the fault had been there  or was developing when he 
took receipt of the car.
Mr H referred  his complaint to this service and an independent engineer was asked to 
inspect the car. Because the car was in a stripped down condition  the engineer was asked to 
review the paperwork  and provide an opinion rather than complete  a visual  inspection.  The 
independent engineer said as the car had covered 7,000 miles since  it was supplied  and 
Mr H had been in charge  of the vehicle  for eight months, he said it was most  likely that the 
faults it now had were issues related to wear and tear and not ones that were  present at the 
point of supply.  Our adjudicator agreed with the independent inspection and didnt think  
there was therefore  any need for Moneybarn  to take any further action.
But Mr H disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr H so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN13672302Mr H acquired  his car under a conditional  sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr H. The car here 
was around six years  old and had travelled  almost  90,000 miles when the finance agreement  
started and I think a reasonable person would therefore expect some wear and tear and to 
consider that some  components  may be reaching  the end of their useful life.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right. 
But Moneybarns responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Moneybarn are right to suggest  that legislation would encourage us to assume that if a car 
developed a fault in the first six months it was likely  to have been there from the point of 
supply. The relevant legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
As this fault happened after that I think its reasonable  to expect Mr H to prove  that the 
problems the car is now suffering from were there  from the beginning.
But the independent inspector doesnt  think that is likely to have been the case  as Mr H has 
been able to cover a reasonable mileage in the vehicle since  he took receipt of it and the 
faults should be classed as wear  and tear and costs associated with the running  of the car. 
Hes an expert in these matters and Im persuaded to agree with him.
I understand that Mr H wouldve preferred a more  in depth visual  inspection  but Im not 
persuaded this would have made  any difference. The car was stripped down and I think its 
likely this would have  prevented the independent  engineer from being able to provide  any 
additional meaningful correlation between the oil leaks  that had been identified  in the pre-
sale inspection and the faults  the car was exhibiting prior to strip down. In those 
circumstances I can understand that the best solution would be to ask for a review on the 
paper evidence and having  seen that review  I can understand the engineers  opinion  and 
agree with it.
I can also see that Mr H is upset he wasnt presented  with the pre-sales checklist  findings 
when he took receipt  of the car. But I can see that the oil leak is listed as an advisory and I 
dont think it was necessarily incumbent on the garage to tell Mr H about issues  that were  
simply advisory. For instance, they wouldnt in my opinion, have to tell him about tyre treads  
Ref: DRN13672303that were getting  a bit low - as long as they were  roadworthy. So I dont  think  theres 
evidence this car was misrepresented to Mr H.
Im therefore  not asking  Moneybarn to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1367230