K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to tell her about charges on her bank 
account, didnt  tell her when  the account  was sent to collections, and defaulted the account.
background
Ms D had an account with Barclays, which she thought she had switched to another bank. 
But unknown to her, the account remained open and a direct  debit was still paying money 
from it. Over  time, this resulted in the account becoming overdrawn.  In 2018 the account 
was sent to a collections  agency and then defaulted.
Ms D complained that Barclays  should have closed  the account  when her salary stopped 
being paid into the account,  since a condition of having the account  was that a minimum 
income had to be paid into it, and she hadnt  kept to it. She says she was not notified  about 
the overdraft charges,  or about the account being  sent to collections.  She wants  the default 
to be removed from her credit file, and the charges refunded.
Barclays said it had written to Ms D about  the account at her old address, but she had 
moved without telling Barclays. Ms D had set up a mail redirect, but Barclays  said it was not 
responsible if her mail had not been forwarded. It said it would  not close an account without 
trying to contact its customer first, so it had not closed the account  right away.  It had 
eventually sent her a termination letter saying that the account would go to collections.
Ms D brought this complaint to our Service, saying that Barclays should have emailed her, 
but our investigator  did not uphold her complaint. He said the account terms and conditions  
said that Barclays would contact her by writing to her at the address it had on file, and the 
bank had written to that address. He said it was not the banks fault if Ms D had not told it 
her new address. He didnt think that Barclays had needed to write to her while  her account 
was in credit, and once it became overdrawn he thought Barclays  had written to her enough 
times before sending  it to collections.  He thought  Barclays was entitled to report adverse 
information to credit reference agencies. Ms D asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Paragraph 2.2 of the terms and conditions  for the account reads as follows:
It is your responsibility  to ensure that we have your current contact details. Where  
we are required to send information to you, by law we have to send it to the most  
recent address we have for you. If you do not tell us promptly about  any change to 
your details, the security  of your information could  be at risk and you may not 
receive things  which could be important, including notices about  changes to this 
agreement which affect you.
I think that makes the banks customers obligations  clear, and that it also makes clear  the 
possible consequences of not keeping their addresses up to date. Ms D set up a mail 
redirection with the post office,  but that was not enough to comply  with the terms and 
conditions, and so I will not hold Barclays responsible for her not receiving its letters. 
Ref: DRN16954282Ms D says she has a credit card with Barclays, and that she told Barclays  about  her new 
address in connection with that account.  But that account was with Barclaycard, which  is a 
separate business to Barclays, and updating  the address on her Barclaycard account would 
not update her address  on her current account  with Barclays.
Because of what the terms and conditions say, I dont  accept  Ms Ds argument  that the bank 
should have emailed her. Email is not always a secure method of communication, and the 
bank is entitled  to stick to the method of communication it told her it would use in the terms 
and conditions. That is also standard banking  practice.
For all of the same reasons, I do not uphold Ms Ds complaint about the overdraft fees, or 
about the banks decision to send  the account to a collections agency. Barclays  wrote to her 
about these matters and sent the letters to the address it had on file.
I accept the banks explanation for why it did not close Ms Ds account as soon as her salary 
stopped being paid into the account.  I think it was reasonable for the bank to try to contact 
her about  it first, and to wait a while for her reply,  before finally  closing the account. It didnt 
have to close the account immediately, and doing so might  well have contravened the banks 
duty to treat positively and sympathetically  a person who is in financial difficulty   since for 
all the bank knew at the time, she might have lost her job. (Actually she was just having  her 
salary paid into another account, but Barclays didnt know that then.)
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1695428