K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that their claim for subsidence damage under their home insurance 
policy with Legal  & General Insurance Limited  (L&G) was declined unfairly.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a home insurance policy with L&G for their property when they first 
bought it in 2017. In 2018  Mr and Mrs P noticed  cracks in the wall of the porch and raised  a 
claim with L&G for suspected subsidence.  
L&G initially  asked for Mr and Mrs P to provide a cause of damage report.  This was provided 
and based on the report L&G said that the damage  would  not be covered under the policy  as 
it believed it was due to poor workmanship.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with this initial assessment.  So L&G agreed  to appoint a loss 
adjuster to assess the damage in person. Mr and Mrs P also complained about the service 
they had received and L&G offered £50 compensation for the inconvenience. 
The loss adjuster visited the property  to assess the damage.  They also requested a copy of 
the pre-purchase survey  from Mr and Mrs P. On receipt they reviewed this alongside their 
own report. The loss adjuster concluded that the damage wouldnt be covered under the 
policy. They  said the pre-mortgage report  recommended expert advice  was sought regarding  
the affect nearby trees might have on the structure  of the property. They also said that there  
was evidence of repairs carried out to the damaged area by the previous  owner,  so the 
damage pre-dates the inception of the policy  so would  be excluded from cover.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  think this was fair as they said they hadnt been  aware  of the previous 
repairs and raised  the problem  as soon as they saw signs of it. They brought  their complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended that Mr and Mrs Ps complaint 
was upheld. She said that L&G had not done a sufficient investigation to prove  that the 
subsidence would be excluded from cover, as it hadnt discovered the cause. She also said 
that Mr and Mrs P raised a claim as soon as they saw the cracking  and wouldnt have known 
that the damage was pre-existing.  She therefore  thought it was unfair to decline the claim on 
that basis.
Although L&G didnt agree with our investigators view, it agreed  to do further  investigations 
to decide the cause  of the subsidence. However Mr and Mrs P didnt agree to this course of 
action as they said it would be unlikely to result in L&G providing  cover for their claim. They  
asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&G has said Mr and Mrs Ps claim is not covered under the insurance  as it is the result of 
an ongoing problem  that pre-dates the start of their policy. It also said that the mortgage 
valuation report recommended that Mr and Mrs P obtain a more  detailed report regarding 
Ref: DRN16679752trees close  to the property that may cause structural damage. So they could have identified 
the subsidence when they bought  the property. 
When a claim  is raised under an insurance  policy it is the responsibility of the insured to 
prove that they have experienced an insured peril  an incident covered under the policy.  It 
is then the responsibility  of the insurer to either accept the claim or prove that an exclusion 
applies.
In this case, the insured  peril is subsidence.  So I first need to consider whether  Mr and 
Mrs P have done enough to prove  the insured peril. L&Gs loss adjuster says in their report:
.. it is apparent that the front right hand corner and return right hand  side wall of the
front porch has suffered  the effects  of foundation  subsidence as a likely result  of clay 
shrinkage
It then goes on to suggest  a few possible causes. As L&Gs  loss adjuster agrees that the 
cause of the cracks is subsidence, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs P have proved an insured 
peril. 
I have then gone on to consider whether L&G have done enough to prove that the insured 
peril would be excluded  from cover in this instance.  Its said that the subsidence was present 
before the inception  of the policy, so the insured should have been aware of the damage at 
the point of purchasing the house.  The policy states  under  General  Exceptions:
Any loss, damage, injury or accident occurring, or arising from, an event, before the period 
of insurance commences.
So I agree the policy  doesnt provide cover for pre-existing damage. It is also clear from the 
photos provided that previous work has been  carried out in the area that has cracked,  to try 
and fix a previous  problem of a similar nature. So I can understand why L&G have applied 
the term. 
However I need to decide if L&G have applied the term fairly in this instance. I think a fair 
application of the term would be to consider  whether the policyholder  ought to have 
reasonably been aware of the pre-existing damage. 
The mortgage valuation  report, which was carried out before Mr and Mrs P purchased  the 
property, says as follows:  Trees close to the property could cause structural damage.  Whilst 
no associated damage was evident specialist  advice is recommended.  So although the 
report suggested trees could cause structural damage,  it also confirms that there was no 
damage visible at the time. 
I have also considered the photos of the cracks  in the walls  provided by L&G. As the walls 
have cracked along the same lines as they have previously been  repaired, it is now easy  to 
identify the previous repair  work.  However I dont think this would have been apparent before 
the cracks  appeared. There would be no reason for Mr and Mrs P to suspect there had been 
a problem in that area,  so additional pointing wouldnt have been clear. Also, the metal  
bracket attached  to the wall wouldnt have indicated problems with cracking by itself,  as it 
could have been installed for a variety of reasons. This combined with the fact the initial 
report stated the property had no visible signs of structural  damage, means  I am satisfied 
that the damage wouldnt have been apparent at the point  Mr and Mrs P purchased  the 
Ref: DRN16679753property. I therefore  dont think its reasonable to have expected  them to have been aware of 
the existing damage.
L&G has also said that the mortgage report recommends  that expert advice is sought in 
regards to a nearby tree. It has said that Mr and Mrs P failed to do this and could have 
identified issues with subsidence if they had. I have considered this and although Mr and 
Mrs P didnt take any action based on this recommendation, I dont think  this was 
unreasonable in the circumstances. A more detailed survey  isnt a requirement. And 
according to the first report, the tree only posed a possible  risk and not the cause  of any 
current problems. Further, L&G have so far only speculated on the causes of subsidence so 
it hasnt been  confirmed if the tree has had an impact  anyway.  As Ive said,  it appears  the 
property was in good condition at the point of purchase, so I understand why Mr and Mrs P 
didnt see the need to instruct  a further  report.
For the reasons  Ive given I dont think L&G have applied the exclusion of pre-existing  
damage fairly. I therefore dont think it was fair to decline their claim.  I therefore require L&G 
to consider Mr and Mrs Ps claim  in line with the policy  terms and conditions  without  applying  
the exclusion for pre-existing damage.
Mr and Mrs P also say they should be paid compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by L&G declining  their claim. I have considered this and I wont  be awarding further 
compensation. The claim was raised  in August 2018  and declined  that December. Although 
L&Gs original reluctance to appoint a loss adjuster did cause delays, it has offered £50 
compensation for this and this is in line with the amount I would award.  I therefore  wont ask 
L&G to offer anything  further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I require Legal & General Insurance Limited to:
Consider Mr and Mrs Ps claims in line with the terms and conditions of the policy,  without 
applying the exclusion  for pre-existing damage.
Pay the £50 compensation they have already offered, if they have not already done  so. This 
should be paid within 28 days  of us telling them that Mr and Mrs P have accepted my final 
decision. If Legal & General Insurance  Limited pay later than this they must also pay interest 
on that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1667975