K821x#15Complaint
Mr A says Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about four personal  loans  L2G provided to Mr A between  September  2018 
and February 2019. Our adjudicator partially  upheld Mr As complaint and thought  he 
shouldnt have been provided with any of the loans  from loan 2 onwards. L2G didnt agree 
with our adjudicators  assessment. So the complaint  was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  irresponsible and unaffordable lending - including  the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
L2G needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr A could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that L2G should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having looked 
at the overall pattern of L2Gs lending  history with Mr A, I think that L2G should reasonably have  
seen that Mr A was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a sustainable manner 
by the time it provided loan 2. 
I say this because  by this stage, it ought to have  been  apparent to L2G that Mr A had 
migrated from the cycle of payday  borrowing its checks prior to providing loan 1 suggested 
he might  have been in, to a cycle of dependence  on this eye-wateringly expensive form of 
credit. And it also ought to have been  apparent that Mr A was more likely  than not borrowing 
further to cover the hole left in his finances  caused  by the repayment of previous  loans.  
Ref: DRN14928482Mr A had to pay interest and charges on loans that L2G shouldnt  have  provided  him with. 
So I think that he lost out and L2G should  put things right.
Putting things  right  what  L2G needs to do
refund all interest,  fees and charges Mr A paid on loans 2 to 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information relating to these loans from Mr As credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must  give    
Mr A a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr As complaint. Loans  2 Go Limited 
should pay Mr A compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1492848