K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mr S took out in 1996. Its been 
agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for the complaint. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in August 2019 (a copy  of 
which is attached  to this decision) and I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  the 
complaint. But I asked everyone  to respond  with any further comments or evidence before I 
issued my final decision.
Both parties  confirmed theyd received  my provisional decision but no one had anything  
more to add. 
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case. 
As Ive not been given anything more  to think about,  my decision remains  the same. I dont 
uphold this complaint.  Taking everything into account, I dont  think  Mr S has lost out by 
anything FICL might  have  done wrong. 
Ref: DRN10427212my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN10427213complaint
Mr S says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mr S took out in 1996. Its been agreed 
in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things 
simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case. 
Having done this, Im thinking of not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
The policy was sold in-store where Mr S filled in a leaflet.  FICL should  have made  sure Mr S was 
aware the policy was optional. Mr S says nothing was mentioned about  the PPI at the time of the sale.  
FICL doesnt have any paperwork Mr S wouldve  completed at the time,  so Ive also thought about 
what I know  about  how FICL  sold these types of policies  at the time, alongside what  Mr S has told us. 
And having done this, I think its unlikely  FICL wouldve added the PPI without Mr S indicating  he 
wanted it. Although I can understand why Mr S cant  remember taking out the policy now.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for him. But it did 
have to make sure Mr S got the information he needed  to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  Mr S 
says he had a medical condition  at the time of sale and our adjudicator thought this condition was 
something that wouldve made it difficult for Mr S to make a claim on the policy, so they upheld his 
complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about  the information Mr S has told us about his condition. Having done this, I 
dont have enough evidence that Mr S would have thought this would be the main reasons he might  
have needed to claim  on the policy in the future.  And the policy wouldve covered  him for other things. 
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by 
any of the other exclusions  or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr S says he had sick pay benefits from his employer. But the PPI wouldve paid out alongside his 
employee benefits. It also wouldve covered  him if he became unemployed. Ive also thought  about  
the fact Mr S says he had savings he couldve used. But having the PPI wouldve meant Mr S could  
have used his savings to cover other essential costs. So I think the PP would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. 
Overall, I dont think Mr S has lost out by anything FICL might have done wrong.  
Ref: DRN1042721