K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc didnt pay a fair market  value  
for a car he had under a lease agreement. Mr Ms daughter as named driver made  a claim 
under his car insurance policy.  Mr M said RSA only settled the lease companys final amount 
but didnt take into consideration the deposit he paid under the agreement.
background
Mr Ms daughter was unfortunately involved in an incident in December 2018 which wasnt 
her fault.  An engineer said the car wasnt economical to repair. So RSA settled the claim as 
a total loss. The lease company said its final settlement was £13,770. This is the amount 
RSA paid the lease company (minus the applicable  excess).
Mr M said he paid an initial deposit  of over £2,000 to the lease company under his lease  
agreement. He thought  RSA should  have  taken this into account. But RSA said this was 
something hed need  to take up with the lease company. 
Our investigator looked at what RSAs policy said it would pay in the event of a total loss 
claim. It said it would  pay up to the market value or the cost of a replacement new car. If 
there was a balance  after paying  the proceeds  of the claim to the lease company, it would 
pay Mr M the difference. She thought RSA hadnt arrived  at a fair market value as it relied on 
a mid point valuation  rather  than the retail transacted guide in line with our approach.  She 
also thought that as Mr Ms car was less than a year old it was unfair not to base a valuation  
on the condition  of the car as being  good. 
She recommended the following:
Mr M made an advance payment of £2,187.60 and the monthly payments were for
£220.94. Our usual  approach is to deduct a months regular payment from the larger  
first payment  and consider the rest on a pro-rata  basis which  in this case  would be 
nine of the 36 months used  so 75% was unused. I am therefore recommending that 
RSA pay the difference to Mr M of £1,474.99  which would still be within the market 
value of the car after deducting the lease settlement paid. I also feel RSA should  pay 
Mr M £50 for the trouble  and upset caused  as he had raised this with them  very early  
on.
Mr M accepted the investigators recommendations. RSA didnt agree. It said it had correctly 
relied on one of the main motor trade guides relying  on its mid point valuation  - as lease 
companies dont  buy cars at retail cost. It said a fair market value for Mr Ms car was 
therefore £14,687.50 minus VAT.  So it said it would  agree to pay Mr M a balance of 
£917.50. And it agreed to pay Mr M £50 compensation as recommended  by the investigator. 
Our investigator asked  RSA to provide proof  of the valuation it was relying  on but RSA didnt 
provide it. In October  2019  RSA asked  for more  time to consider reviewing the terms of the 
lease agreement Mr M had. But our investigator  didnt  think this was fair as by this stage 
Mr M had waited a further three months  since shed given her view.  She explained that it 
may be some time waiting for a final decision,  but said she would pass  the case for an 
ombudsman to consider  as the next stage of our process. She asked RSA to provide any 
additional information it had it in the meantime.
Ref: DRN13402552The investigator explained that  even by deducting  VAT from the main motor trade guides 
she checked against, the average valuation came  to £15,543. So she felt the 
recommendation shed made was fair, in line with RSAs policy  and our approach.
RSA didnt provide  any further comment or information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it.
Mr Ms policy with RSA says that where  it isnt economical to repair the car, it will pay either 
the market value or the cost of a replacement new car. It defines the term market value as:
The cost of replacing  your car with a car of the same make, model,  specification,  mileage
and age, in the same condition as your car was immediately before the loss or damage you
are claiming  for.
The policy also says the following:
If we know you are paying for your car by hire purchase or under a leasing 
agreement then we will do either of the following:
 if we are paying the cost of replacing your car, we will pay the proceeds of the claim 
to the company to which you are liable under the hire purchase agreement  or from 
which you are leasing  your car. If you owe under the hire purchase or lease 
agreement an amount less than the proceeds of your claim, we will pay you the 
difference.
We dont decide  a market valuation  but we can establish if an insurer  has reached its 
valuation reasonably and in line with the policy. We checked the motor  trade guides in line 
with our long standing approach and relied on the Retail Transaction values they gave for a 
car of the same make,  model and age of Mr Ms car. After deducting VAT, the average 
market value from the guides  came  to £15,543.  
RSA paid the lease company £13,770 minus  the applicable excess.  But I dont think RSA 
acted reasonably in failing to consider the deposit Mr M paid. And I dont think  it was fair to 
rely on anything other than the retail transacted  values from the main motor  trade  guides. So 
I think the valuation  RSA reached was less than the market value for Mr Ms car. I therefore 
agree with the investigators approach in reaching  a fair balance  for RSA to pay Mr M at 
£1,475. This proportionately takes  into account  the deposit Mr M paid. And I think RSA 
should pay interest on this balance as it should  have paid this to Mr M in January 2019 when 
it settled the claim with the lease company. 
I agree  with the investigators recommendation that RSA should  also pay Mr M £50 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  its caused  him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc 
to do the following:
Ref: DRN13402553Pay Mr M the difference of £1,475 as the total loss settlement under  the claim.
Pay interest on this amount  at a rate of 8% simple  interest  a year from the date it 
settled the claim with the lease  company to the date it pays Mr M.
Pay Mr M £50 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience it caused.
RSA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr M accepts  
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a simple  rate of 8% a year.
If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr M how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1340255