K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1990. Mrs A 
and Mr H say Yorkshire  Building Society  (YBS) mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs A and Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs A and Mr H say that the PPI was added without  their knowledge or consent.  But from 
the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied they knew about  the cover  and agreed to take it out. I 
say this having seen the documents completed  at the time of sale. Ive seen a copy of their 
mortgage application where theres  a tick in the box to agree to take advantage of the PPI 
cover. Ive also seen  a separate completed  and signed PPI application form which  confirms  
Mrs A and Mr H wanted to take out cover  in Mr Hs name only. So, I think  YBS made  it clear  
that Mrs A and Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out in 
Mr Hs name  only  although I can understand why they cant  remember this.  
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs A and Mr H so it didnt have  to check  if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mrs A and Mr H got the information  they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mrs A and Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they 
were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.  
Mrs A and Mr H may have had some  savings and Mr H may have had some sick pay at the 
time. But upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months,  and on top 
of their existing means. The mortgage is likely  to have  been their most significant  financial 
commitment at the time,  so I think they wouldve  benefited from having some  additional  
security in place. And Ive not seen any other evidence that persuades  me this policy  
wouldnt have been of any use to them.  
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A and Mr H. But 
YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A and Mr H because : 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs A and Mr H about that. Because YBS didnt tell 
Mrs A and Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN12110332what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mrs A and Mr H any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should  also pay back to Mrs A and Mr H any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mrs A and Mr H the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mrs A and Mr H 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs A and Mr H can claim back the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A and Mr H.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mrs A and Mr H any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1211033