K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Mrs B have  complained about their home insurer Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance
Plc (RSA) because it has declined their claim for a damaged conservatory roof.
background
Mr B and Mrs B had a conservatory installed in 2007. On the morning of 18 January 2018  
they discovered damage to its roof, as well as some  displaced ridge tiles on the main  roof. 
The conservatory roof appeared  to have lifted and moved meaning  it was now out of 
alignment. But it was still watertight. Mr B and Mrs B made  a claim to RSA and appointed an 
insurance claims specialist to handle  the claim for them.
RSA logged the claim and recorded  the damage as having happened  on 17 January 2018.  It 
appointed a building claims company to assess the damage. Regarding  the conservatory  the 
company noted  a specialist would be needed to form a proper opinion.  But its feeling  was
that the roof may have  moved gradually  over time as there  was no sign of any clean areas to 
suggest some parts  had just become exposed. Regarding the ridge tiles it accepted  these 
had likely been dislodged by the storm, and that damage was replicated  across other houses 
in the area.
RSA appointed a conservatory specialist. He attended and spoke with Mr B and Mrs Bs 
insurance representative. The representative  says the specialist felt the damage had been 
caused by the storm. However, when the report was made the conclusion  reached  
reportedly by a team of people within the specialist company   was that the roof of the 
conservatory wasnt fitted with tie-bars which had allowed the roof to move  over time 
because its weight wasnt properly supported.  The report  also said that whilst the damage 
was consistent  with the report  of loss, it couldnt be certain that the damage  would  always  
have occurred if there had been  tie-bars fitted.
RSA declined the claim and Mr B and Mrs B complained to us. Our investigator was 
persuaded by the building claim companys report that the damage had likely happened  over 
time, rather than as a result of a one off incident  of storm.
Mr B and Mrs B were  unhappy  and got their own report from a civil and structural engineer. 
The engineer concluded that the conservatory  had been constructed  appropriately. He felt 
the storm had caused  the damage and set out what was needed for repair. His repair  
recommendation didnt include any suggestion for fitting tie-bars.
RSA said the report  didnt assist in any way because it didnt specifically mention the tie-bars  
which it felt, and had argued,  were the main  cause of the damage.  It said the winds on the 
17 January only reached 48 mph which wasnt strong enough to lift a structurally  sound roof. 
It argued that four experts had all agreed  that a lack of tie-bars  had caused the problem and 
that, if anything, the storm had just highlighted the issue.
When asked to explain who the four experts were RSA confirmed:
the assessor  from the building claims company who initially  attended, who has no formal 
qualifications but many years of experience assessing  damage claims.
the conservatory specialist, but their files have been deleted so it isnt clear who attended 
or what their qualifications were  and its final report was the result  of a team collaboration.
Ref: DRN14689762another member of the building claim company, who had reviewed all of the photographs 
but not actually  attended site (his qualifications werent  disclosed).
the company that had installed the conservatory  for Mr B and Mrs B and which the 
building claim  company had spoken to (in an unrecorded  call), sharing  its view with, which 
the installer apparently agreed with.
RSA also later clarified that one of its expert claim handlers who is appointed to resolve 
difficult claims and always  achieves complete  customer  satisfaction had also been  
consulted. Regarding whether there is any industry standard or best practice  to show that 
tie-bars should be installed, he is reported  to have said:
"any competent  carpenter will tell you that a tie is needed across the base of a triangular 
truss to stop it spreading ".
The complaint was passed  to me and, largely  on the basis  of the engineers report  I felt the 
claim should be upheld.  But I also felt RSAs investigation and findings prior to that report  
being obtained had been flawed. Mr B and Mrs B accepted my findings. RSA did not.
my provisional findings
Following the production  of the engineers report this is a relatively simple case to decide. 
The engineer is best qualified to comment on the adequacy of the conservatorys structure 
and likely cause of its damage. Regarding damage  he thinks  it was caused by the storm. 
Regarding the structure he thinks it is sound.  And crucially hes given his professional 
opinion as to what is needed  to repair the conservatory and hes satisfied that the existing 
roof structure can be taken down and re-fitted.  He doesnt suggest that it has to be replaced  
 which  any professional arguably  would if they didnt think  re-fitting would create  a long 
lasting repair. And nor does he say that in addition to re-fitting  the existing structure,  tie-bars  
should be installed  which  any professional  arguably would if they felt these were necessary  
to ensure a long lasting repair, or should  have been  fitted originally.
There are also some  other issues though that detract from the argument  put forward by RSA 
that pre-date  the engineers report.  In summary:
It assumed  which  date the damage had occurred, meaning the fact of winds of much 
greater speeds  potentially having  caused  the damage  was likely  missed.
It relied on an expert opinion of the damage when  even that expert said a specialist 
opinion was required.
It relied on an opinion it reported to have received  from Mr B and Mrs Bs own installer  but 
without evidencing  that.
It said there was no sign of recent  movement  of the roof but its photos,  in at least  one 
case, do show  clean,  seemingly newly exposed areas.
It cant produce its specialist file, so hasnt been  able to show  the original  site visit notes, 
or any on-site considerations or findings.  Nor has it been able to properly trace  who 
decided tie-bars  were  necessary or why.
It doesnt seem  to have taken into account evidence from the manufacturer that suggests 
installing this particular  roof without tie-bars is acceptable  and still creates a structurally  
sound roof.
Whilst it says that installing tie-bars is best practice for conservatories it hasnt produced  
any evidence  to support that contention. And in saying  that Im discounting the comment  
Ref: DRN14689763I quoted above as its content suggests its been  made entirely out of context, and it 
doesnt address  the specific facts of the situation.
So, even had the engineers report not been  provided, I might still have upheld  this 
complaint. In any event,  as I said at the outset  I think RSA was wrong to decline this claim. 
The question now is what does it need to do to put thigs right.
Ive seen an estimate on file for replacing the whole roof. But Ive also seen several 
references in the file, including the engineers recommendations,  to a repair being possible. 
Im satisfied that RSA then needs  to repair the conservatory as per the engineers  
recommendations. It can either carry out the recommended  work, or it can cost the work 
detailed and offer Mr B and Mrs B a cash settlement. But if it offers that because  it doesnt 
want to do that work then it will have to base that settlement on what it will cost Mr B and Mrs 
B to have the work done, not what it might have cost it to do so.
I note there was no water  ingress, so there  is no other damage to consider.
If Mr B and Mrs B were charged for the engineers report, RSA should reimburse this cost,  
plus interest* from the date it was paid for until settlement is made.
I think this has likely been a frustrating time for Mr B and Mrs B but they did have an expert  
handle this for them, meaning they were likely caused less inconvenience than if theyd 
handled it themselves.  Im going to require RSA to pay them £100 compensation to make up 
for any distress and inconvenience  suffered.
RSAs responses to my findings can be summarised as:
It hadnt made any assumptions  about when the damage occurred, that was clear from 
the claim notification call and it was the evening  of 17 January 2018
Three professional  people, including Mr B and Mrs Bs initial contractor said the design of 
the roof was flawed.
The engineers  report was only compiled 12 months after the event and its silent on the 
key issue of tie bars.
The report is quite generalised and isnt as detailed as it would normally  see. It may have 
been written based on what  the engineer was told rather than as a result  of him forming 
his own conclusions.
The evidence  I had noted  showing recent movement to the roof supported  its view that 
movement has occurred gradually  at different times. 
Its most  senior of building technicians has reviewed the whole file and confirmed  the roof 
should have  had tie bars fitted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  RSAs  response to my 
provisional findings, in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, I remain of the view set out provisionally.  Ive explained below, 
looking at each of its points in turn, why RSAs  response hasnt changed my mind.
Date of the damage   RSA hadnt disputed  that a storm had occurred, but a fair and 
reasonable assessment of any storm claim has to take into account whether the storm which 
occurred likely caused the damage. Here the wind-speed recorded in the early hours of the 
18 January 2018  was much stronger than that occurring on the evening  of 17 January.  Prior 
Ref: DRN14689764to my reaching my provisional decision RSA was asked why it had recorded  the date of the 
storm as 17 January 2018 when the call to it had come  in on the following morning. It said:
The damage occurred sometime overnight from the 17 to the 18 so the loss was recorded 
as the 17. We cannot register 17/l8 or overnight.
The notification call doesnt  suggest  that the damage occurred on the evening  of 
17 January 2018.  The timing  of the damage is questioned just twice during the call and the 
responses given  are:
Overnight  at some point; and
Overnight   [Mr B] doesnt  know exactly when .
So I stand  by my original assessment that RSA made an assumption about when the 
damage had occurred. 
Professional people  I accept that RSAs  taken note of what various professionals have said 
(or are alleged to have said) about  the roof. But I summarised provisionally the issues  I had 
with their findings. I appreciate they have  a level of knowledge and expertise. But Im still of 
the view that their comments arent persuasive,  especially  not in light of a professionally  
qualified person, the civil and structural engineer,  having  given  their opinion on the damage. 
The engineers report  This was made  a long while after the damage  occurred. Sometimes  
the timing of a report will have an impact on its relevance and/or persuasiveness. But Im 
satisfied that isnt the case here.  The issue is whether the roof should  have been fitted with 
tie-bars or not  and that issue wont have been  affected by time passing.  RSA also says the 
report is quite generalised and lacking  in detail. I dont agree that is the case. I accept  and 
noted provisionally that the report doesnt specifically mention tie-bars.  But I also explained 
why I felt the report still had worth  in terms of determining whether RSAs  reason for 
declining the claim  that the roof had likely moved  due to a lack of tie bars rather than the 
storm  was fair and reasonable or not. I stand by those findings. 
Gradual movement  RSA initially  said that there was no sign of recent movement which  
suggested the roof had moved  over time. I pointed to evidence of recent  movement and RSA 
now argues that this supports it argument that the roof has moved  over time. RSAs 
comment in this respect emphasizes what I indicated provisionally  that its assessment  of 
various aspects of this claim  was flawed.
Building technician   Im not sure if this is the same person  whose view I quoted 
provisionally and discounted. Regardless, whilst  I dont doubt they have a wealth of 
knowledge, very relevant to buildings claims, Im more persuaded by the engineers report. 
overall
I appreciate that RSA has strong  views about  this claim. But Im not satisfied that its 
presented sufficient evidence to show  that its reason for declining  it was fair and reasonable.  
Therefore, I think it must now deal with the claim  by repairing the roof or paying for that to be 
done in line with my provisional comments set out above. For the avoidance of doubt  my 
provisional findings now form part of this final decision. Im also still satisfied that it should 
reimburse the cost of the engineers report and pay £100 compensation. 
 
Ref: DRN14689765my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc to:
Repair or pay Mr B and Mrs B to repair the conservatory, in line with my comments  
above.
Reimburse any cost Mr B and Mrs B incurred for the engineers report,  plus interest* from 
the date it was paid for until settlement is made.
Pay Mr B and Mrs B £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
* Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated.  If Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from any interest  due to 
Mr B and Mrs B, it should  tell them how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr B and Mrs B a certificate  showing this if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1468976