K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained as a sole trader that WorldPay (UK) Limited  (WorldPay  for short) has 
treated her business  unfairly regarding a chargeback, some withheld payments to her 
business and invoices that Mrs K says she didnt receive.
background
Mrs K says that WorldPay has treated her unfairly because it didnt do enough to defend a 
chargeback on a transaction made through her account; that it has withheld payments to her 
which she was due to be paid which made  her cash flow difficult  and that she hasnt 
received invoices from it that WorldPay says shes been sent.
WorldPay says its treated her fairly. It says that it tried to defend the chargeback  but 
ultimately the chargeback was decided through the chargeback process  which it doesnt 
administer. It says its withheld  some  payments previously  because it can through the 
agreed terms and conditions and Mrs K owed it money. Lastly  its pointed  to where Mrs K 
can view her invoices on its systems. So it doesnt  feel it needs to do anymore.
Mrs K still feels WorldPay has treated her unfairly  so she complained here. The investigator 
did not agree with Mrs K. As Mrs K remains unhappy this complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
WorldPay and Mrs K dont agree to some of the key issues here. So I can only make my 
decision based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short  I must  decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance  of 
probabilities.
I can see from Mrs Ks arguments shes very upset  about these matters. And Im sorry to 
hear this. However  for me to uphold this complaint I have to be persuaded that WorldPay 
has treated Mrs K unfairly  and that this has led to Mrs K losing out. Having considered  the 
entirety of the matter  I do not think this complaint should be upheld.  I say this for the 
following reasons:
chargeback
The chargeback process  is administered by the relevant  chargeback scheme. This is a 
process which card providers administer to settle  disputes between card issuers  and 
merchants. As such the decisions  made by the scheme are its responsibility and not that of 
WorldPay.
Mrs K has said if WorldPay  had moved quicker  it would  have  been  successful in defending 
the chargeback.  Im not persuaded by this. I can see that there wasnt any unreasonable 
Ref: DRN14907302delay in how it dealt  with this process. Particularly considering  that it started looking into the 
matter quickly and well within the timeframes required by the scheme.  And I appreciate Mrs 
Ks point  that not only has she lost out on the goods  but also the transaction amount-in effect 
losing out twice. I appreciate this is the case,  but this isnt WorldPays fault. So I cant hold it 
responsible for this. And bearing all this in mind I dont think  it was unfair of WorldPay  to 
require Mrs K to pay it the chargeback amount as the fault lies with the person who 
purchased the goods fraudulently and not WorldPay.
Mrs K has raised the issue  that had the matter been  pursued  more  quickly  CCTV could have 
been gathered.  This may be the case. But this doesnt mean the transaction wouldnt still 
have gone through or been charged  back. And it also doesnt mean WorldPay has done 
anything wrong. The only difference  the CCTV would have made would be that the Police  
would have more  evidence if theyd chosen  to pursue the matter. Ultimately  Mrs Ks 
recourse is against  the person who made the fraudulent transaction which went  through  the 
chargeback process.
Mrs K has also asked  why she hasnt been provided details about the person who 
purchased the goods and the findings  of the chargeback investigations. This is because  of 
data protection  issues and various  parties not wishing to divulge information which might 
prejudice current or further  investigations.
withheld payments
WorldPay has pointed in its letter of 20 July 2018 that it can withhold payments under the 
terms that Mrs K agreed with it when she started using its service. It says its done this in 
order to protect its position and cover future liabilities. It was also entitled  to do this in 
respect of the chargeback amount Mrs K owed  it based on the agreed terms and conditions. 
And I can see it told Mrs K in that letter that in the terms and conditions  it could set off any 
payments into Mrs Ks account  against money  she owed it.
Mrs K has questioned whether WorldPay is entitled  to do this. From  the letter it sent to Mrs K 
its clear WorldPay  was reviewing the account and ensuring the account was run 
appropriately. Having  considered this Im satisfied that it was in the agreed terms and 
conditions and that it is fair for it to take the actions it has in relation to this account. 
Invoices
Latterly Mrs K has complained about not getting invoices from WorldPay. In answer  to this 
WorldPay has pointed out that her invoices can be seen on the WorldPay business 
dashboard facility.  So I dont think Mrs K has been treated unfairly here.
It is clear from some  of the things Mrs K has said that she feels that WorldPay  has acted 
dishonesty towards her. Ive considered all that has happened here and Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence  of this. Having considered all that has happened  here Im not 
persuaded that WorldPay has done anything wrong. So, in short, this complaint does not 
succeed. I appreciate  this will be very disappointing for Mrs K. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against WorldPay  (UK) Limited. 
It has nothing more  to do with regard to this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ref: DRN14907303Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 
28 February 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1490730