K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Ferratum UK Ltd (Ferratum) irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan, and one payday loan, Ferratum  provided to 
Mr W between  June 2018 and July 2018.  Mr Ws lending history is as follows:
loan  
numberdate startedamount  
borrowedterm date ended
1 29/06/2018 £700 6 months 25/07/2018
2 27/07/2018 £500 33 days 28/08/2018
Our adjudicator said that it was reasonable for Ferratum to have provided loan 1 to Mr W. 
But he also said that loan 2 shouldnt have been  approved. So he partially upheld the 
complaint. 
Mr W didnt disagree with our adjudicators view. But Ferratum didnt agree. So the case  has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Ferratum  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN11993352So Ferratum  was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably  repay  his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  defines  sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because  of this I dont think  
there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So I wont be making a decision about it. 
But it was part of the borrowing relationship Mr W had with Ferratum. So its something I will 
take into account when considering the other loans he took.
For loan 2 Mr W needed to repay  just under  £650. This was significant when compared with 
his declared income  of around £2,500. Loan 2 was taken only two days after loan 1 was 
repaid early.  
So I think Ferratum couldve realised at that time that Mr W may have some longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans  to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. It shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about Mr Ws 
true financial  situation.
So I think that it wouldve  been proportionate  to find out about Mr Ws normal  monthly living  
costs and regular  financial commitments  including any existing short-term  lending. This was 
to make sure Mr W was in position  to make the repayments sustainably.
I dont think Ferratum did this. I can see that it found  out about  Mr Ws income and 
expenditure but it doesnt seem to have found out much about any other  debt he mayve had 
and in particular  his short term credit commitments. So I need to think about what Ferratum  
wouldve seen if it had carried  out proportionate checks. 
Mr W has provided some information about his financial circumstances. This includes his 
bank statements and a recent credit  report. I accept that this isnt exactly  what  Ferratum  
wouldve seen at the time. But I think  it wouldve  found out similar information if it had made 
proportionate checks, so I think  its reasonable to rely on it.
Had it done this, I think  it would have identified that Mr W already owed a significant amount  
to other  short term lenders, as well having  two longer term personal loans. So his existing 
commitments would mean that he would be unlikely to be able to sustainably repay loan 2. 
I think that Ferratum shouldnt have given loan 2 to Mr W and I think hes lost out as a result  
of this. So Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about  loan 2, and Ferratum needs to put things 
right.  
Ref: DRN11993353what Ferratum should  do to put things right
To put things right for Mr W, Ferratum should:
refund all the interest and charges paid as a result of loan 2; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file as a result  of this loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum  to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must  
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ws complaint. Ferratum UK Ltd should  pay 
Mr W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1199335