K820x#14Complaint
Mrs F says Canada  Square Operations Limited  (trading  at the time as Egg) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
Background
Mrs F bought the policy in late 2003,  at the same time as taking out a credit  card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully  at a copy of the online application  process  from the time of Mrs Fs sale. 
From what  Ive seen, it looks like there  wouldve been a section for extra  features, including 
PPI. It gave a brief overview  of the purpose and cost of the policy and asked the customer  if 
they wanted it, with two options to choose  from: one to take PPI and one to turn it down. It 
looks like in order to get the policy, Mrs F wouldve actively chosen it. So I think its most 
likely that Canada Square made  Mrs F aware  she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and 
that she chose  to take it at the time.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F, so they didnt have  to check  if it was 
right for her. They did have to give Mrs F enough information to decide if the PPI was right 
for her.
Its possible that the information Canada  Square  gave Mrs F about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, it looks like Mrs F chose to take out the policy, which  indicates  she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And 
the PPI offered Mrs F more comprehensive cover  than her existing benefits and would have 
paid out on top of them. So the policy could have been useful for Mrs F if something went 
wrong. And so I dont  think better  information would have put her off taking it out.
Ref: DRN14861722My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1486172