K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C applied for a credit  card in 2003. The PPI was added  to the credit card at the same  
time and covered his repayments if he couldnt  work  due to disability or unemployment. It 
also included life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr C disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax should have  made it clear  to Mr C that the PPI was optional and got his agreement  
before adding it. While I cant be sure what was said by the adviser, Ive looked closely at all 
of the information I have  about this sale, including what  Mr Cs said about  not being  made  
aware the PPI had been added.
Halifax has sent me a copy of the credit card application Mr C signed and dated. It included  
a clear and prominent  box to mark if he wanted  PPI. The box was marked  with a printed X. 
I think the application, together with experience of how Halifax  sold PPI at the time, suggest 
there was a discussion between Mr C and the adviser about PPI. And that he chose to take 
it, knowing it was optional.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr C. This means it had to look into whether the PPI 
was right for him. I dont know if it did that. But, from what Halifax has sent me and what  
Mr Cs told me about his circumstances at the time of the sale,  I think  the PPI was right for 
him in any case because:
He was eligible  for the PPI, despite  him saying he was working part-time.  And I dont 
think he was affected by any of the main things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. 
He wasnt entitled to enhanced sick pay from his employer.  Whereas the main PPI 
benefits would have paid out for up to 12 months per disability or unemployment 
claim. And I cant see that Mr C had any savings or other  means of meeting  his 
repayments if he wasnt working. Overall, I think the PPI would have been of use to 
him. 
Theres nothing to suggest Mr C couldnt  afford the PPI. And, if he no longer wanted 
it, the PPI was flexible  enough that he could have cancelled  it at no extra cost.
Ref: DRN12439742Halifax also had to make  sure it told Mr C enough about the PPI for him to make up his own 
mind about  whether it was right for him. And it had to do this in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way. I dont know for sure how much information Halifax  gave Mr C or how well it 
was explained.  But, for the same reasons I think the PPI was right for him, I dont think better 
information would have made  a difference to his decision  to take it out.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr C paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr C back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr C now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt 
already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1243974