K820x#14complaint
Mr D & his wife (for ease and to maintain  anonymity I shall refer to them both as 
Mr and Mrs D) complain  that; the State  Bank  of India (UK) Limited (SBIUK), mishandled  a 
transfer of money  from their account  with SBIUK, to an account of theirs in India with the 
State Bank of India  (SBI); they received poor customer service from SBIUK  when they 
sought advice  prior to making the transfer, and they received poor customer service when 
they made a complaint. As a result they say they have lost out financially and want  either the 
transfer to take place  as they understood it would,  or SBIUK  and SBI to transfer the money 
back to their SBIUK account in the same amount. 
background
On the 20 December 2018 Mr and Mrs D transferred £11,000 from their SBIUK account in 
the UK to an account they held in India with SBI. They performed the transaction  themselves  
without any input from staff at SBIUK using the SBIUKs  internet banking. Prior to the 
transfer Mr D called the SBIUK for advice, and discussed their need for FCNR  (Foreign 
Currency Non Resident)  deposits and the importance of not converting  the transfer from 
Sterling into Rupees.  
Learning later that their Sterling transfer  had in fact been  transferred into Rupees they 
complained to SBIUK, but felt their complaint wasnt handled properly and that SBIUK  and 
SBI were passing the blame between themselves.
SBIUK said that it was the receiving bank  which decided  on the nature of the currency when  
money is transferred,  and said it told Mr D to make enquiry with SBI. And, as SBI were  not 
part of SBIUK it also said that if Mr and Mrs D wished to complain  about  SBI they should 
contact them  directly,  providing contact details so they could do that.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy  with SBIUKs response  and so an investigator from this service 
looked into the complaint but didnt  think  SBIUK had done anything  wrong. Mr and Mrs D 
disagreed with that view and so the matter  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My decisions are based on the available 
evidence and where evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory,  I reach  my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is more likely  to 
have happened  in light of that evidence and the wider  circumstances.  
I will not repeat our investigators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral. I must  first confirm that this service can only look 
into the service provided by SBIUK since  SBI does not fall within  the scheme we operate.
The crucial  issue here revolves around what advice Mr D was given when he called SBIUK.  
Our investigator listened to a number of the recorded calls although Mr and Mrs D point out 
that this was not all of them. SBIUK however say it has provided all of the calls.  I can 
however only make  a decision  based  on the evidence in front of me. 
Ref: DRN16456902The relevant  call recording shows that SBIUKs advisor told Mr D that when the money 
arrived in his account in India it would  be in the currency of that account, which in 
Mr and Mrs D case was Rupees.  So, although  Mr and Mrs D now say they feel they should 
have been advised differently, there was nothing to suggest that they were unhappy with the 
advice Mr D received when he called. 
In the light of that advice Mr and Mrs D then proceeded with the transfer  through  SBIUKs 
online banking. So looking at whether SBIUK have acted unfairly I am satisfied on this 
evidence that they have  not since they completed the transfer  as Mr and Mrs D asked them  
to. I understand that Mr and Mrs D have since learned that there  is a method whereby the 
transfer to the bank  in India could have been in Sterling, but this doesnt  get around  the fact 
that SBIUK told them that such a transfer  would end up in the currency  the receiving bank 
account was held in. So, I cant say SBIUK have  done anything wrong here.
As far as Mr and Mrs D complaint is concerned regarding their complaint to SBIUK, I can 
appreciate they were  looking  for a different response, and so were naturally disappointed  
that SBIUK didnt  uphold it, but I think SBIUK were  correct. They explained  what  had 
happened and also explained that as far as there  might be any complaint or criticism levelled 
at SBI, then that was not a matter  they could deal with. And I think  they were right to provide 
Mr and Mrs D with SBIs contact  details in India. So, I dont think  SBIUK  have handled this 
issue badly and I dont  think  they were passing the blame  to SBI.
I know Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for similar  reasons. Im not satisfied that SBIUK  have 
treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly, so Im not going to ask it to do anything further and Im not 
upholding their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against State Bank Of India 
(UK) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1645690