K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain that Santander  UK Plc blocked access to their accounts  and 
caused them  considerable inconvenience and distress.  
background
Mr D and Mrs D have been  long-standing  customers of Santander. In 2018  their accounts 
were suspended after a suspicious call from another business. They provided identification 
to try and unblock the accounts.  After  numerous attempts to resolve the matter by telephone  
and in branch,  a home visit was arranged.  But despite further identification checks they still 
had problems accessing their accounts.  The blocks also caused  problems with other  
investments. So Mr D and Mrs D would  like Santander to restore full access to their 
accounts. And they want substantial compensation and costs.  
Santander explained someone had taken part in a call with the bank and claimed to be Mr D. 
Thats why access had been restricted.  Santander wrote to Mr D and Mrs D to say itd 
placed a temporary  block to restrict payments,  purchases and withdrawals from their 
accounts. And itd restricted access to online  and telephone banking. 
Santander asked  either Mr D or Mrs D to visit a branch with photographic identification and 
proof of account ownership. Santander  understood the person claiming to be Mr D had been 
their son. But if they wanted him to help there  were certain procedures to go through  to 
properly authorise  him to act on their behalf.
Santander apologised that a number  of branch visits had taken place without resolving the 
problem. And it appreciated Mr D and Mrs Ds son was trying to assist  them.  But it had a 
duty of care to protect the accounts. And itd had a number of suspicious calls. Santander 
apologised for the distress and inconvenience  caused. And it arranged  a payment of £50 as 
a gesture of goodwill.  Santander also offered £120  compensation because  Mr D had been  
unable to complete  an ISA transfer  while his account was blocked. And it paid a further £150 
compensation and then £50 more for the ongoing  difficulties.
Mr D and Mrs D werent  satisfied with Santanders response. So they contacted  our service 
and our investigator looked  into the matter. She looked at whether Santander had followed 
its policies correctly in relation to potential fraud. It seemed Mr D and Mrs Ds son had 
contacted the bank  on several occasions pretending to be Mr D. So she felt Santander  
hadnt acted unfairly  by blocking  the accounts  while it undertook  a review. And the bank  
informed Mr D and Mrs D that their son couldnt transact on their account.
When it became aware Mr D found it difficult to travel to a branch Santander arranged a 
home visit. But it needed to see photo identification during the visit as their son lived at the 
same address. 
Overall our investigator felt the total of £250  for the poor service and trouble and upset 
caused was fair and reasonable.  And she could see Santander had compensated Mr D with 
a further £120 for lost interest  when he couldnt  complete  an ISA transfer because of the 
account blocks.
Mr D and Mrs D didnt agree. Santander had only paid two amounts of £50 compensation 
and a further £120 for the ISA issue. And it hadnt compensated Mrs D for the loss of her 
own ISA. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
Ref: DRN16799662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate how distressing this has been for Mr D and Mrs D. Theyve had problems 
unblocking access to their Santander accounts. And despite many calls and visits it took 
three months before the problem was resolved. Mr D says he was told hed be compensated 
for each  branch visit. And he had to ask a number  of times for a home visit as Santander 
said no-one was available in the local area.  Mr D doesnt think  Santander has done enough 
to put things right. So Ive looked  carefully  at everything thats happened.
Santander, like all banks, has a responsibility to protect itself and its customers  from 
potential fraud. And it has procedures to follow when it has concerns that something may be 
wrong. I cant ask the bank to change those procedures. But I can look to see if Santander  
has followed  them correctly and fairly.
It seems  there were  a number of issues with someone contacting businesses claiming to be 
Mr D. Mr D has confirmed  the person in question is their son. But Santander has advised 
them its against the terms and conditions of the account for him to do so. I realise their son 
may have  been  trying  to help. But it is still a breach of the terms of the account. It presents a 
security risk to both Santander and Mr D and Mrs D. And thats why it had to restrict access  
on several occasions. 
With regards to Mrs Ds ISA Ive looked at Santanders records. The transfer to the third 
party was returned  by them as a faster payment rather than a rejected ISA transfer.  As the 
block on the Santander account had been removed before the transfer  I dont think  
Santander has made any mistakes in this matter. Theres  nothing  to suggest the transfer 
failed because of anything Santander did. But I understand the bank  has compensated 
Mrs D with £25 to cover any loss of interest.
Mr D would like additional compensation for a cancelled hotel booking.  But I cant  say 
Santander acted  unfairly in blocking  the accounts when it felt there was a repeated risk of 
fraud. Mr D says he lost his cash card and therefore couldnt pay in cash. But either Mr D or 
Mrs D couldve  visited a branch with suitable  ID to withdraw enough cash to pay for the 
booking. And I understand the reservation was made using a different card. So I dont  think it 
would be fair to hold Santander responsible  for the cancellation.
The difficulties accessing their accounts  lasted  for about three  months. And it took a lot of 
calls and visits before Mr D and Mrs D were able to regain access. I understand Mr D is also 
concerned there are CIFAS  markers against  their names, but Santander has confirmed it 
hasnt placed  anything on their files.
According to the bank  statements I can see payments  from Santander for £50, £150, £120  
and another £50. The amounts agree with the total calculated by our investigator. I know 
Mr D would like more compensation for the trouble he and his wife have been put through.  
He feels the bank didnt take into account his age or problems visiting  the branch. 
When Santander became aware Mr D was finding  it difficult to visit the branch Id expect the 
bank to try and make alternative arrangements if possible. I can see it did arrange a home  
visit. But because Mr Ds son also lived at the same address they had to go through  more ID 
verification before Santander could continue.
Ref: DRN16799663I dont underestimate  the distress  this has caused Mr D and Mrs D. As far as they were  
concerned their son was helping them.  But Santander has a responsibility to protect  their 
accounts from potential  fraud. And it was aware someone had impersonated Mr D on a 
number of occasions. Even if the person was their son it was still a breach of the account 
terms. And it presented  a risk to their finances.  Im sure Mr D and Mrs D would expect  
Santander to follow reasonable  procedures to protect their money. And that includes not 
allowing their son to impersonate Mr D - even with their permission.
I know Mr D and Mrs D will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on everything  Ive 
seen I think the total compensation of £370  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And 
its in line with the sort of award  our service would normally  make. So I wont be asking 
Santander to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 January 2020
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1679966