K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mrs E payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a secured loan in 1995.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available  only basic records exist. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything  that happened some 24 years ago when the sale took place.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why:
I think its likely the PPI would have been mentioned  in the documents at the time, and 
that it would  have been presented as a choice. And I dont have  strong evidence  to show 
that Nationwide didnt make clear  the PPI was optional;  or that it didnt ensure that Mrs E 
freely chose  to take it. 
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mrs E, as being particularly suited to 
her individual needs. This means it didnt have  to check if the PPI fitted  her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs E to decide whether it was suitable. But even 
if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have  been  an appropriate one 
in her circumstances  at the time.  Not being  able to pay a loan secured on your home can 
cause significant  difficulties, and the PPI would have paid out in addition to any employer 
sickness and redundancy benefits,  and possibly for longer. And Ive not been  told 
anything to suggest she couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. So it would have 
been potentially  useful. 
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy.  But 
I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mrs E took the PPI.
Ref: DRN10869612Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
But its unlikely Mrs E would have been  affected  by any of these. Its likely she was 
eligible for the policy, and shed be paying for it monthly, so she could cancel it at any 
time without further cost if her situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  3 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1086961