K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund  him after hes been the victim of a 
scam. 
background
Mr S made a payment of £19,200 on 14 May 2018  to what he thought was his builders 
account. But the account details had been amended when an email was intercepted  by 
scammers. Mr S made the payment to a scammers  account instead. 
Mr S discovered what had happened  and contacted  Barclays on 27 May 2018 to report  the 
scam. Barclays  contacted  the bank that received  the funds the same day. The receiving 
bank later came back and confirmed the majority of the funds had already been removed 
from the account and £28.66 was later returned  to him. 
Mr S felt that Barclays were responsible  for his losses. Mr S raised several complaint points, 
but in summary  his concerns were:
-Barclays owed him a duty of care to ensure his money wasnt going  to a fraudulent 
account. 
-He thought as the payee  name was asked for it should have been checked. He says 
he requested the payment was made to a specific named payee  and it wasnt. He 
assumed and trusted the account  name  would be checked. He believes Barclays  
should have followed  the full payment instruction which  included the payee name  if 
it had the fraud would have been  prevented.
-He thought he was paying an account held at a specific branch  if hed have known 
it was going to a different branch he wouldnt have proceeded with the payment.
-Banks are aware of these types  of scams  and have a duty of care to check  and 
prevent them.
-Barclays didnt provide any warning that the account name  wouldnt be checked, and 
it ought to have done. 
Barclays didnt uphold  Mr Ss complaint. It said because  he willingly completed  the transfer it 
wasnt able to assist  him any further.  It said it contacted the receiving bank in good time and 
although originally  told that £46.39 remained in the recipient account that wasnt  the case  as 
only £28.66 was returned. 
Barclays added that an electronic payment only requires the account  number and sort code 
for it to be processed. It said this is standard banking practice and its for the payer  to make 
sure these are correct.
Unhappy with this outcome  Mr S brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things. He concluded that despite being tricked,  Mr S had 
authorised the payment. But he also went on to consider  if there was anything unusual or 
suspicious about the payment that meant Barclays ought to have intervened.  He considered  
the previous account activity and didnt  think  the scam payment was unusual.  
He was also satisfied  that Barclays took reasonable steps to recover  Mr Ss money  when he 
reported the scam. He was satisfied that Barclays contacted the receiving bank the same 
day the scam was reported. Only a limited  amount of funds  remained  in the recipient 
account  which has been returned to Mr S. 
Ref: DRN15881852The investigator also explained that payments like this one are made  using only the account  
number and sort code,  this is set out in the Payment Service Regulations and are defined as 
the unique identifiers. He was satisfied Barclays was only required to process  the payment 
using the account number  and sort code.  He also added that even if Barclays  had made it 
clear the payee  name wouldnt be used to make  the payment, he didnt think this would have 
made a difference - he didnt think  Mr S had any reason to doubt the payment he was 
making was genuine and would have proceeded with it. 
Overall the investigator  didnt think Barclays was responsible for Mr Ss losses.
Mr S provided detailed responses  setting out why he disagreed with the investigators 
findings. Whilst he raised several points, in summary, his main concern was that Barclays 
was at fault by not warning him that the account  name would not be checked when 
payments are processed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the findings made by the investigator  who set out a comprehensive and detailed  
response to this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S who has 
put a great deal of time and effort into providing  information about this complaint and raising 
several arguments about why he thinks Barclays ought to refund the money  he lost to this 
scam. 
Ive considered all that Barclays  did, and ought to have done,  with the appropriate  rules  and 
guidance in mind. I find its actions have been fair and reasonable. I think  it acted  fairly  and 
reasonably in releasing the funds from Mr Ss account when he asked it to. And its attempts 
to recover the funds didnt contribute to his losses. 
And, although Mr S has raised a number of points which Ive considered in full, Ive limited 
my decision  to what I consider to be most  relevant issues  in this complaint. By doing  so I 
mean no disrespect  to Mr S by not commenting on each point raised, and I appreciate  that 
the documents hes put together mustve  taken him a lot of time.  But Ive addressed the 
salient points when  deciding this complaint. 
authorisation 
Im sorry  to hear Mr S has been  the victim of a scam  and lost this money.  I know this cant  
have been easy  for him, either financially  or emotionally. And I appreciate  that he feels 
strongly that Barclays and the receiving bank ought  to be responsible for his losses  here. But 
Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The regulations most  relevant to this case are the Payments  Service Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). Its the PSRs that set out when a customer and when  a bank is responsible  for 
transactions on an account.  
A customer will normally be responsible for any transactions they authorise.  Here,  theres no 
dispute Mr S authorised  the transaction from his account. He set up a new payee and 
transferred £19,200  from his account.  
Ref: DRN15881853I know Mr S believes he was acting in good faith when he made the payment. He has 
argued that he only authorised a payment to a specific  named account  and because  the 
payment didnt go to that named payee it isnt authorised. I will comment  on the payee  name  
later. But the fact that he made the payment because he was tricked, or it was based  on 
false information isnt relevant  to the matter  of authorisation. All of this doesnt change  the 
position that he authorised the transaction and the starting position is that hes liable for 
doing so. 
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases declined 
to make a payment  altogether,  to help protect  customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. So, there  are some situations where we might  expect a bank to question  
transactions if they are particularly unusual for a customer. The bank didnt  ask Mr S about 
the transactions whilst  they were taking place  and I dont think  that was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. Ill explain why. 
Barclays actions
Ive reviewed Mr Ss account  statements from August  2017  to May 2018. On the individual 
facts and evidence  before me, Ive considered whether the activity surrounding the scam 
represented particularly  unusual activity for Mr Ss account and I dont  think it did. I say this 
because:
-There are large credits and debits  in and of the account on regular basis. The 
investigator highlighted some of these,  but I think the following are relevant 
Ref: DRN15881854Type of payment Amount Date Balance on the 
account
Bill payment  new payee £10,000 29/11/17 £32,633.56
Bill payment  new payee £10,000 30/11/17 £22,614.09
Credit £140,000 18/01/18 £174,886.33
Credit £165,000 05/02/18 £172,089.93
Bill payment  new payee £30,000 05/02/18 As above
Bill payment £50,000 08/02/18 £120,634.10
Bill payment £45,000 12/02/18 £75,090.30
Bill payment £50,000 13/02/18 £25,022.59
Credit £20,000 09/04/18 As below
Bill payment  new payee £19,200 09/04/18 £29,576.80
Credit £20,000 04/05/18 £39,048.20
-Because of the above activity on the account  and amounts involved Im not 
persuaded that the scam  payment of £19,200 on the 14 May 2018 stands out as 
being unusual  or suspicious. 
-The scam payment  leaves the account  with a healthy balance of over £17,000. 
Mr Ss account balance fluctuates  on a regular basis, so the amount left the in 
account after the scam  payment also doesnt  appear suspicious or unusual in any 
way. 
-There are genuine  payments  for similar  or much  higher amounts as transfers  or bill 
payments in the months prior to the scam  payment.  So, its not unusual for Mr S to 
make payments of similar value, using this payment method.
-Barclays notes show that the payment of £45,000 in February 2018 was flagged  and 
referred for further  investigation.  That payment was released following investigation.  
I dont have any further details than this, but Im satisfied  that Barclays  checked 
payments on Mr Ss account  where  it considered they were suspicious. But I can see 
the scam  payment wasnt checked or flagged for any reason and I dont think that 
was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
-I have seen evidence  of the new payees set up on Mr Ss account  from 2012  
onwards. These appear to be fairly regular and for varying amounts, anywhere up to 
£50,000. In the months immediately prior to the scam Mr S set up a new payee  and 
made a payment of £30,000  and set up another for £19,200.  Considering this Im 
persuaded the setting up of the scam  payee  and the value of that payment again  
doesnt stand  out as being unusual for Mr Ss account. 
Considering the usual  account activity, I dont think  the scam payment was so unusual or 
suspicious that Barclays ought to have been concerned about it and intervened.  Therefore, 
Im persuaded that executing the payment, was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN15881855recovery of the funds
Barclays records show that Mr S reported  the scam  on 27 May 2018.  I can see that Barclays 
started the recovery of funds process the same day. Im satisfied Barclays  acted reasonably  
here in its attempts to recover the funds. So, Im not persuaded  that Barclays contributed  
towards Mr Ss losses here. 
account name checking
Mr S has made several arguments about  why he thinks  the account  name  ought  to have 
been checked. And the fact the payee  name didnt match  the beneficiary account  holders 
name ought to have  been picked up by Barclays  when the payment was made. And more  
recently Mr S has raised concerns that Barclays didnt give a warning that the account name 
wouldnt be checked.
As the investigator  explained, when this payment  was made  there was no requirement on 
Barclays to check the account name. Even  as part of Barclays duty of care to its customers 
and in exercising  skill and care, Im not persuaded this creates an obligation  on Barclays to 
check the account name before executing  a payment. The PSRs set out what  a payment 
service provider needs to do when executing  a payment where  the payment is executed in 
accordance with the unique identifiers the payment order is deemed to have been correctly  
executed. The account name is not a unique identifier and therefore  Barclays  isnt 
responsible if this doesnt match when  executing a payment.
I appreciate Mr Ss point  that Barclays terms and conditions could be clearer  on this point 
and a warning  could have been in place. But that doesnt change the fact that the account 
name wouldnt have  been checked. I also agree  with the investigator,  that whilst that could 
have been made clearer,  I dont think  it would  have made any difference  here. Mr S made  
large payments on a regular basis from his account  and so was familiar  with payment 
instructions. Mr S has said he assumed and trusted the account name was checked. He said 
this was because  it appeared on his statements in this way and formed  part of the 
information required when  making a payment. But I cant  see that he had any reason to be 
suspicious of this particular payment  instruction, even if he had known that the account  
name wouldnt be checked on this payment  or any of the previous payments hed made.  It 
was a payment  he expected to make, the amount remained  the same  as agreed with the 
genuine builder, the email address hadnt  been  altered by the scammers and he didnt seem  
suspicious or appear to ask the builder any questions when the account  details  were  
amended. Ultimately, I dont think a warning that only the account number and sort code 
needed to be correct to execute  the payment would have resulted in him not proceeding with 
the payment.
Mr S also argues that if he had known the payment was going to a specific branch and 
warned about  this it would  have also prevented the scam. The sort code usually identifies 
the branch the recipient  account is held at. But Im not persuaded that, at the time Mr S 
made this payment, Barclays  was obligated to check and highlight this information  to Mr S. 
So, I dont agree that Barclays is responsible  for his losses  because  it didnt highlight which 
branch the recipient account was held at.
Ref: DRN15881856Mr S has provided updated  screen shots of his online banking to show  the warnings  and 
messages that now are now visible. These  dont appear to have been in place when Mr S 
made the scam payment,  and this is supported by his argument  that they werent but ought  
to have been. New industry guidance has set about  changes when online and mobile  
banking payments are made, and, as a result, more warnings are presented to consumers. 
But the guidance and changes arent retrospective  so I cant say that the warnings that Mr S 
has shared ought  to have been  in place at the time he was scammed. I appreciate thats 
frustrating but Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint on the basis that Barclays  has since  
changed it warnings  and that industry guidance has changed and unfortunately isnt 
retrospective.
my decision  
As Ive set out above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1588185