K820x#14Complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited  havent accepted  theyre responsible for 
damage to her property  following an expert report being provided.
Mr L has been leading  the complaint, but Mrs L is the policyholder, so Ill refer to her 
throughout most of the decision.
Background
In a previous complaint, it was accepted that British Gas had caused  a leak in Mrs Ls 
property, but the damage claimed  for by Mrs L couldnt easily be attributed  to British Gas.  
Mrs L was asked to get an expert report to determine how and when the damage was 
caused. And if she was unhappy with British Gas response to this expert  report, she could 
ask us to look into things.
Mrs L arranged for an independent expert report which was produced  in December 2018. 
Mrs L says this shows British Gas were responsible for the damaged  caused  in her property, 
and asked British  Gas to pay the costs shed asked for.
British Gas, in summary, said theyre  not prepared to accept responsibility for fixing Mrs Ls 
property. They said the report does comment on damage evidenced when the engineer  
visited the property,  but doesnt say when or how the damage was caused.
Mrs L didnt accept this, and asked us to look into things.
Our case handler did so, and ultimately  didnt agree Mrs Ls complaint should  be upheld.  
She felt the report didnt  show  British Gas were responsible  for the damage  caused at the 
property.
Because Mrs L remains unhappy, this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L has mentioned several times that British Gas accepted responsibility for what  
happened. But this was a point considered and answered by the previous final decision  so 
its not something Ive considered.
The only issue Im considering is whether the expert report,  paid for by Mrs L, shows  
British Gas are responsible for all the damage to the property. 
Having considered the report, Im satisfied  it doesnt, so I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
Ive read through the report. It clearly comments on some damage noticed when the 
engineer carried  out their visit  saying its likely it was caused by the leak.
But British  Gas argument to this is theres no evidence or confirmation of the cause of the 
damage. My understanding of their argument  is, effectively,  that the report doesnt say 
theyre responsible  for all of the damage Mrs L has claimed for.
Ref: DRN12420692Understanding who was responsible for what happened can be difficult to establish in 
situations like this. Thats why we said if Mrs L wants us to consider this further shed need 
to get an expert report  and if that showed the damage was caused  by British Gas then it 
would be considered.
Mrs L feels very strongly that this report does show British Gas are responsible. But the 
report itself doesnt  say this. It does  talk about  damage, but doesnt actually say everything 
Mrs Ls claimed for is British Gas responsibility. But I couldnt  see wed directly asked the 
surveyor company who provided  the expert  report whether  they thought British Gas were  
actually responsible. So before I wrote this decision, I asked our investigator  to get in touch 
with them  to ask this question.
Their response says they cant say who is responsible for the damage.  They do make 
reference to the leaks,  and I can understand  why Mrs L may feel this proves  her point. But 
Im not persuaded this is enough  given they go on to say theyre sorry they cant be more 
definite about whether it was British Gas or not.
On balance Im not satisfied that the report shows they are responsible  for all the damage   
so I wont be ordering British Gas to pay for the repairs  Mrs L has asked for.
Ive also noted  that Mrs L has had further issues in June 2019 with a burst  pipe. Because  
these issues happened after this complaint I cant consider it. Financial businesses  such  as 
British Gas have  to look into any new complaint issues before we can consider it. Mrs L has 
said these issues are linked  and that may be the case although Im making  no finding on 
that  but the complaint  about this only happened after this complaint had been made. So 
Mrs L will need to raise  her complaint to British Gas first  and then if unhappy we can look 
into things. I can see our investigator has explained  this.
Ive also noticed  that the report seems to say the taps werent  actually fitted properly. Id 
expect British Gas to look at this, and try and resolve it to Mrs Ls satisfaction. If they cant, 
then Mrs L cant bring  this complaint back to us also.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1242069