K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say The Co-operative  Bank Plc trading as Britannia Building Society (The Co-
op) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs T bought the policy in February 1997 a few months after making their mortgage 
application in December 1996.  They applied for both the mortgage and PPI policy  in branch 
at the different dates. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr T only for accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £158.58 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ts 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  the PPI cost £4.54 a month  
for the first year, as the unemployment cover was free for the first year. After the first 12 
months the policy cost £9.08 a month.  
At the time,  Mr T was employed as a network  assistant, according  to the mortgage and PPI 
application forms. Although Mr T has indicated  a different role title, it seems he may have 
been basing his recollections on his circumstances in 2002  as that is when he thought the 
PPI was sold. I believe the records made at the time are likely to be the most accurate so 
have used this information in my decision. 
Mr T has told us he was entitled to up to six months full pay from his employer if off sick and 
he would  have received redundancy pay and death in service.  He has also indicated  he had 
no savings to help repay this mortgage should  he be unable  to work.  Mr T has said he had 
medical conditions  at the time of the sale. 
Mrs T was a joint party to the mortgage,  but Mr and Mrs T selected  to only take out the 
policy to cover Mr T. It seems Mrs T may only have been working part-time when the 
mortgage and policy were taken out. I am in the main therefore  only going to consider Mr Ts 
circumstances, as the policy holder, when considering if the PPI was mis-sold.
The Co-op has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in July 2005. 
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ts representative says:
 
The Co-op failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs T 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ts representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN12129762claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means The Co-op  should  
have told Mr and Mrs T about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means The Co-op  should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs T 
and the impact they would have had on Mr Ts chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs T received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in July 2005.  That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN12129763The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like The Co-op  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so The 
Co-op was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If The Co-op gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for Mr T, given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Whether The Co-op gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs T, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs T 
Ref: DRN12129764suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs T 
and The Co-op, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs T know they had a choice?
The Co-op had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The Co-op has provided copies of the mortgage  application form, which was signed by Mr 
and Mrs T in December 1996, and also a copy of the PPI application  form signed  by Mr T in 
February 1997. On the mortgage  application I can see that Mr and Mrs T have ticked  the 
section on the form to say they wanted PPI. It seems  Mr T then returned to the branch, 
shortly before the mortgage was completed,  and completed separately  the PPI application  
form. 
I think that the circumstances in which  the application for the PPI was made, indicate Mr and 
Mrs T knew they had a choice. They made a choice on the mortgage form to say yes, they 
wanted PPI. And then at a separate time Mr T completed and signed a totally separate  
application form for the PPI. So I think it was clear to them at the time they had a choice 
about taking out the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs T knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did The Co-op  provide  advice?
The Co-op says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs T disagree.  Looking at 
what happened when  The Co-op sold Mr and Mrs T the PPI, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice.  There  is no evidence to show that other than the basic  questions completed  
by Mr T on the PPI application form that any other information was captured by The Co-op to 
indicate it used  that information to assess Mr and Mrs Ts needs. There was no demands 
and needs statement completed and no evidence to show any assessment was made in 
order to provide advice.
This means  The Co-op didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr T. Instead, it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  him to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr T was given a broad description of what  the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect Mr and Mrs Ts payments if Mr T 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs T would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
Ref: DRN12129765But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  The Co-op gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr T agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think The Co-op gave Mr T sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ts. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ts representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs T about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ts representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs T have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that The Co-op ought  to have done either. 
what effect did The Co-ops shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs T? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs T suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that The Co-op  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs T. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr T 
would have still taken  out the policy, had The Co-op done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs T say they would not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs T had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr T being unable to work.  
Ref: DRN12129766As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs T chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs T thought they were  getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this differed 
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs T have suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear The Co-op told them  the exact premium at the 
point they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs T would have 
been told the cost before  the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with The Co-op at the time, or reconsidered  their 
decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs T would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  Mr T agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  The Co-op  made  clear exactly what  Mr and Mrs T would  get 
back in return in the event Mr T made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs 
Ts expectations about what  the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their monthly mortgage payment) were significantly different to what the 
policy actually did
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs T thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to mental  health conditions;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr T 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr T be unable to 
do his own job or any similar job which he may be reasonably expected to undertake 
bearing in mind his knowledge and training.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs T pause for thought   and may well have caused them to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs T from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. Mr T was eligible  for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to Mr and Mrs T should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr T 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. He a was in permanent 
employment and had been  with the same employer  for a number of years. Although Mr T 
has mentioned two medical conditions, he indicated these started in 2000  and 2002. These 
both occurred three years or more after he took out the policy,  so at the time of the sale Mr T 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions. 
Ref: DRN12129767The policy didnt exclude back conditions.  I accept mental health conditions are common 
problems and the policy wouldnt have provided cover  had he needed time off work because  
of such a condition.  But I dont think better  information about this exclusion would have put 
him off agreeing  to take out the policy, as at the time of the sale he had no condition  at all 
related to this. Overall  I cannot  see any of the restrictions relating to medical conditions  
would have affected Mr Ts thinking  about taking out the policy and he still had some  good 
reasons to take the policy out.
If Mr T had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he may be reasonably expected  to 
undertake, it might have  played into his thinking about what he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if he was unable (through disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
The Co-op may not have told Mr and Mrs T that any claim Mr T made would be limited  to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but 12 months  was a longer period than Mr T would have received full sick pay for, and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs T would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr T be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk. 
And might potentially help preserve  Mr Ts sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs T would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr T was made  redundant, or unable to work through  accident  
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs T would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN12129768Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ts circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr 
and Mrs T found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs T believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs T in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
Mr T was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude The Co-op should pay Mr and Mrs T compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs T think[s]  The Co-op  misrepresented  the terms of the policy 
in how it described  the PPI.  While  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some 
of The Co-ops  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why The 
Co-op failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information The Co-op gave Mr and Mrs T, 
in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1997 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ts representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find The Co-op negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs T and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that The Co-op had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs T in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 March 2021.
Ref: DRN12129769Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1212976