K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly refused a 
claim on their buildings insurance policy.  
background
In March 2019 I issued a provisional decision. It forms part of this final decision, so Ive 
attached a copy. In it I explained why I didnt intend  to require Lloyds to pay Mr and Mrs Gs 
claim. I also asked Mr and Mrs G and Lloyds if they would like to provide anything further 
before I made my final decision.  Lloyds had nothing more to add. Mr and Mrs G said they 
didnt accept my provisional decision. They made  a number  of comments. Ive considered 
them and responded, where I think necessary, below.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Lloyds  
pay Mr and Mrs Gs claim.
 
Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds has changed  its reasoning  for refusing  the claim on multiple  
occasions. I cant see that it has. It said it thought  the damage was caused by a defect in the 
roof design.  It didnt  think it had been  caused  by an insurable event. Its still refusing the 
claim for those reasons. 
Mr and Mrs G seem  to say they have proven with video evidence  the roof didnt lack lateral 
support and that its timber wasnt rotting.  But I didnt  refer to the roof timber rotting. I accept 
rotting timber wasnt the cause of the damage. I dont  agree they have proven the roof didnt 
lack support. The expert opinion, including from their builder and their engineer, is that the 
roof design  was inadequate.  Mr and Mrs G also say the roof didnt move until the wall bowed 
out. Even  if that was the case it wouldnt make  me think the cause  wasnt the poor design  of 
the roof.  
Mr and Mrs G say the flue and brickwork  both moved, so it wasnt  a gradual process. Im not 
persuaded by that. I still think its most  likely  the poor design  of the roof caused  the walls and 
flue to be pushed out over time rather than suddenly.
The garage is the same structure as every other in the area according to Mr and Mrs G. 
Even if it is that doesnt mean its roof wasnt a poor design. They  ask how they were 
supposed to maintain a building that showed no sign of failing. But the claim wasnt refused 
due a lack of maintenance. It was refused because it hasnt been shown the cause  of the 
damage was one of the insurable events  covered  by their policy.
Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds pushed them into using this service. I havent  seen anything that 
makes me think it put unreasonable  pressure  on them to do so. When responding to 
complaints Lloyds is required to explain its customers have the right to use this service. In 
any event if Mr and Mrs G dont accept my decision they can still consider other ways,  
including the courts, to resolve their dispute  with Lloyds.        
Ref: DRN14422272my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited pay 
Mr and Mrs Gs claim  or do anything  differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN14422273PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds)  unfairly refused  a claim on 
their buildings  insurance policy.  
background
In September 2017 Mr and Mrs G noticed the boiler flue, in their garage, had tilted. Soon after they 
noticed garage brickwork  was bowing  and its roof was collapsing. So they contacted their buildings 
insurer, Lloyds. It asked  them to provide a report. After considering that Lloyds  refused to pay the 
claim. Mr and Mrs G didnt accept that, so Lloyds  sent its own surveyor. He felt the garage needed to 
be completely rebuilt. Lloyds  said to Mr and Mrs G the claim would  be paid. But then it contacted 
them to say it wouldnt.
Lloyds thought the cause  of the damage was a defect in the roof. This had allowed movement or 
spread of timbers. This had damaged the rest of the garage including its walls. Lloyds said there was 
nothing to suggest the damage had been caused by an insurable peril, such as a storm,  so it wasnt 
covered. It also refused to cover any of the damage under the accidental  damage part of their policy. 
It also referred to the poor workmanship and poor design exclusion in Mr and Mrs Gs policy. It paid 
them £200 compensation  for incorrectly saying the claim  would be paid. 
Mr and Mrs G say the claim should be paid. They say its not reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the poor 
workmanship exclusion to refuse the claim.  They think the garage walls,  at least should  be covered  
under the accidental damage part of their policy. They want the garage rebuilt and Lloyds to cover 
what they have paid a solicitor for representing them.
 
Our investigator initially said Lloyds decision to refuse the claim  was fair and reasonable.  But after 
Mr and Mrs G provided extra information he changed his mind. He said Lloyds should  cover some of 
the damage, including to the garage walls,  but not its roof under the accidental damage cover.  And he 
said it should pay an extra £300 compensation. Lloyds didnt agree, so the complaint has come  to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont intend to make Lloyds cover any of the 
damage or pay them any extra compensation.  
I think  Mr and Mrs G, and their representative, may have misunderstood why Lloyds is refusing to pay 
the claim. So it might help to explain how insurance  claims generally work. Mr and Mrs G policy, in 
common with many  others, only covers damage caused by an insurable  peril. This is sometimes 
referred to as an insurable event. 
For a claim to be successful a policyholder  usually  needs to show the cause of the damage is one of 
the insurable  events covered  by their policy. Standard insurable events covered  by Mr and Mrs Gs 
policy include  fire, explosion, lightening, malicious  damage,  impact by a vehicle, flood,  storm, 
subsidence, escape of water  and theft. But the insurer can then refuse the claim if it can show it can 
fairly rely on a exclusion  in the policy. Exclusions in the policy  include any loss or damage caused  by 
a gradually operating cause, wear  and tear, lack of maintenance, faulty workmanship and poor 
design. 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  is focused on it being unreasonable for Lloyds to rely on some of these 
exclusions to refuse the claim. But before  doing that that they need to show the damage was caused 
by an insurable event.  Im not sure if they have  understood that. Lloyds hasnt explained its reasons 
for refusal  very clearly.  
Ref: DRN14422274So the first thing for me to consider is if the cause of the damage  to the garage was an insurable  
event. Mr and Mrs G dont seem to have so far made the case that it was. Lloyds  says it wasnt. Ive 
considered the various expert reports. Lloyds surveyor said the cause was a lack of lateral  support 
(rafters) in the roof structure. Mr and Mrs Gs builder  said the lateral support had failed. Their  own 
engineer said the roof was never structurally sound due to the size and spacing of the rafters.  And Mr 
G seems to accept that poor design was the cause. None of those causes is an insurable event  
covered by the policy.  
There has been a mention  of storm by Lloyds. Thats an insurable event. It seems there were some 
high winds, but not what Id consider a storm, in Mr and Mrs Gs area around the time they noticed the 
damage. And anyway I wouldnt expect winds  of that strength to cause this type of damage.  So I dont 
think its likely storm was the main cause of the damage. And theres nothing to make me think any of 
the other insurable events caused the roof to fail. So considering the expert opinions  Lloyds view that 
the cause wasnt a standard insurable event seems reasonable.
 
Mr and Mrs Gs policy includes optional accidental damage. Thats  an additional insurable event. The 
policy defines  accidental damage as An accident that causes physical damage,  which is caused 
suddenly by an outside  force and is not expected and not deliberate.  
Lloyds surveyor did initially suggest the damage to the garage walls  and boiler might be covered  as 
accidental damage. But Lloyds has refused to cover any of the damage under  this part of the policy. 
Our investigator said the surveyors original  suggestion  was reasonable. So he said it should pay for 
some of the repairs, including to the walls.   But I dont agree  with him. Instead  I think Lloyds decision  
that none  of the damage is covered by accidental damage  is reasonable.  
Even if I accepted the garages roof structure was an outside force to its walls, I still wouldnt agree it 
was accidental damage as defined by the policy.  It seems unlikely the damage to the walls or flue 
was sudden. The various reports point to the cause  of the damage to the roof being its poor design   
it lacked lateral support.  Lloyds say this resulted  in roof spread that over time pushed  the walls out. 
This seems more  likely  than a one off sudden event thats required for it to be accidental damage.  
Lloyds surveyor reports Mr and Mrs G told them the damage was increasing on a daily basis.  Having  
seen more  recent photos it seems it still is. This supports it being damage thats happened over time.
 
Lloyds has said that even if it accepted accidental damage  - it would  rely on the exclusion of faulty 
workmanship, poor design  or defective or inherently  unsuitable materials to refuse the claim anyway. 
And from Ive seen, it would be reasonable for Lloyds  to say the loss was a result of poor design.
The investigator said its not reasonable to say the roof design  was poor by reference to modern 
building standards or design.  But it seems unlikely  the design would ever have been considered as 
anything other  than poor. Mr and Mrs Gs own engineer said The roof is not and never  was 
structurally sound due to the size and spacing of the rafters it was inevitable that this would cause 
structural problemsI would say that this damage is due to poor workmanship  and design of the roof 
at initial stages Lloyds surveyor said We doubt such a large distance (between the rafters) would  
ever have been considered  acceptable. 
So I think Lloyds decision  that none of the damage is covered by the policy is fair and reasonable.  
Because I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly Im not going  to ask it cover anything  that 
Mr and Mrs G spent on representation.  
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy  that Lloyds  initially  told then the claim  would  be covered. I realise this 
would have been frustrating for them. But Lloyds  is entitled  to change its mind  if it has fair reason to 
do so. They also say it provided  poor customer service.  Ive considered  what  they have said.  Its paid 
them £200 to recognise the unnecessary trouble and upset it caused. I think thats a reasonable 
amount. So Im not going to make it pay any extra.  
Ref: DRN14422275my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont intend to make Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited pay 
Mr and Mrs Gs claim  or do anything  differently.  
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1442227