K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  with the service received  from Symmetric Systems Ltd (trading as Bank 
Smart) after instructing it to deal with financial  claims  on his behalf. 
background
Mr T instructed Bank Smart in 2014 to deal with a number of financial claims,  mainly 
payment protection insurance, on his behalf. The terms  and conditions  agreed to said Bank 
Smart would  charge  a success fee of 25% plus VAT in the event of any successful claim. 
The terms and conditions  also said that Bank  Smart would charge reasonable costs  if Mr T 
failed to complete  and return documents required.
In July 2015, following a successful claim with Lender L, Mr T received £18,538.73 
compensation. Bank Smart sent Mr T their success fee invoice.  Mr T was unhappy with the 
VAT charged on this invoice, and asked to cancel  all outstanding  agreements with Bank 
Smart. Mr T was told doing this would result in cancellation  charges being applied. Mr T took 
his complaint to the Legal Ombudsman. The complaint was informally resolved with Mr T 
agreeing to Bank Smart  continuing to act for him. 
Bank Smart continued  to work on Mr Ts claims and this resulted in two further successful 
claims. Mr T couldnt afford to pay Bank Smarts  success fee, and it was agreed that hed 
repay the outstanding invoices by making  a reduced payment of £40 a month until the 
balance was cleared. 
In 2016, Mr T received  notification of another successful claim against Lender  L. He hadnt  
received any compensation so he complained to Bank Smart about  the fee charged for this 
claim. Mr T also complained to Bank  Smart about the letters it was sending addressed to his 
late mother. Bank Smart apologised for the letters, and also agreed to cancel  the 
outstanding invoice for the most recent  claim against Lender L. Bank  Smart  agreed itd made 
a mistake in charging  Mr T for this claim. Mr T took his complaint to the Legal Ombudsman.  
Following investigation  Mr T accepted the resolution  offered by Bank Smart in their original 
response to his complaint, and the complaint  was informally  resolved this way. 
In May 2018  Mr T complained of financial  difficulties.  Bank Smart agreed to reduce Mr Ts 
monthly payments  to £20 a month, and requested he complete an income  and expenditure 
form for it to assess Mr Ts affordability. Bank Smart  say Mr Ts balance at the time was 
£350.25; however  no further payments were received from Mr T. 
In October  2018 Mr T complained to Bank  Smart about their overall service. Mr T was 
unhappy that he hadnt been able to cancel  his agreements with Bank Smart, their lack of 
acknowledgement to his late mothers passing,  and financial difficulties. Mr T asked for Bank 
Smart to agree an affordable  repayment plan for his balance owed, and cancel any existing 
agreements at no further cost. 
In response to Mr Ts complaint, Bank Smart  put forward  their previous offer to reduce Mr 
Ts monthly repayments to £20 a month, and confirmed he had one open claim.  During  our 
investigation, this open claim resulted in a successful pay out of £862.39,  and a success  fee 
applied as a result of this. Bank Smart has confirmed Mr T has no further open claims, and 
his current balance is £628.97. 
Mr T was unhappy with the response from Bank Smart and brought his complaint  to the 
Legal Ombudsman. This complaint was originally investigated by the Legal Ombudsman, but 
Ref: DRN17289742was transferred to the Claim Management  Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) 
as part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies.
The investigator didnt  think Bank  Smart had acted unfairly, and didnt recommend it do 
anything more in resolution of Mr Ts complaint.  Mr T didnt agree with the investigators 
findings, saying  that Bank  Smart  hadnt got in touch with him to discuss  repayment,  and hes 
being threatened by debt collectors. Mr T requested decision by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive focused my comments  on what I think 
is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ive looked at the points  Mr Ts raised about him not being able to cancel his agreements 
with Bank  Smart, their lack of acknowledgement to his late mothers passing, and financial 
difficulties.
Bank Smart say Mr T has raised a total of five complaints since instructing it in 2014, three of 
which have been  escalated to the relevant  ombudsman scheme  for further  consideration. 
Although Mr T escalated complaints to the Legal Ombudsman in 2015, and 2016, Ive seen 
that on both occasions Mr T accepted the offer to resolve his complaint made by Bank Smart 
in their initial response to him. 
Having reviewed the limited evidence from when  these complaints were made, it looks  like 
Mr T agreed  for Bank Smart to continue to act for him, despite raising complaints about their 
poor service. Because of this I think its fair to say that Mr T understood that he would be 
responsible for any future success fees that become payable if any further claims were 
successful. So I cant say that Bank Smart  have done something wrong in continuing to 
represent Mr T, and then charging  its success fee following successful claims. 
As part of Mr Ts complaint to Bank Smart  in 2016,  he complained about the correspondence 
he was getting  for his late mother. I can appreciate that it mustve been frustrating for Mr T to 
have received letters addressed to his late mother. It looks like Mr T accepted Bank Smarts 
apology for this in 2016, and the complaint  at the Legal Ombudsman was closed. So I think 
its fair to say that this complaint was considered resolved by both sides. 
Ive seen that although Bank Smart continued  to represent Mr T, it was made aware  of his 
financial difficulties. Because of this, it was accepted by Bank Smart that Mr T could make  
monthly payments  for its success fee, instead  of paying it as a lump sum when it was due. In 
May 2018, this arrangement was reconsidered  by Bank Smart and payments were reduced 
to £20 a month.  Bank Smart say that Mr T was asked to complete an income and 
expenditure form for it to assess affordability. Bank Smart say Mr T made one payment of 
£20 in May 2019, and this is the only payment  received  since May 2018. It says as no 
payment was received for over a year, it began collections activity.
As part of this services  investigation Mr T provided  evidence  of an income  and expenditure 
form he recently completed with help from the Citizens Advice Bureau, and three months  of 
bank statements. This evidence has been  passed  to Bank Smart for consideration. 
Ref: DRN17289743Even though  I accept  that Mr T has had a difficult relationship with Bank  Smart, I dont think I 
can go as far as saying  that Bank  Smart have done  something wrong. The main reason for 
this is because despite Mr T raising concerns  with the service  he was getting from Bank 
Smart, from when he instructed it in 2014;  it looks like he accepted the resolutions agreed 
when he escalated his complaint on two occasions  previously to the Legal  Ombudsman. On 
balance it seems likely that Mr T was agreeable to Bank  Smart  continuing  to represent him. 
Ive seen that this resulted in successful  claims, and in turn, Mr T being responsible for 
paying further success fees to Bank  Smart. 
I accept that Mr T feels strongly that he hasnt been  able to cancel Bank  Smarts  service, 
and he would like it to stop contacting him. Bank Smart has confirmed to this service  that no 
more claims are outstanding, so I wouldnt expect it to contact him anymore-  except in 
relation to debt collection  activity for the outstanding  balance owed. I hope this provides 
some resolution to what has been a difficult relationship for both parties.  For the reasons 
explained I think the work Bank Smart has done has been  with agreement from Mr T, and 
has resulted in successful  claims. Because of this I think its reasonable that it charges  its 
fees in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed to by Mr T.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1728974