K821x#15complaint
Mr H is complaining that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance  (BPF) activated  a fixed sum loan agreement  to pay for a kitchen 
before he was satisfied  it was fitted correctly.
background
Mr H bought a kitchen through a company (W) and he agreed to pay a deposit of £1,500 and 
the remaining  balance  by taking out a fixed sum loan agreement  with BPF. Mr H says that 
he was told BPF wouldnt release payment  for the kitchen  until he signed a certificate of 
satisfaction to say he was happy with it. Under the terms of the agreement, Mr H didnt have 
to pay any interest on the loan if he paid it off within 12 months of Barclays  releasing 
payment for the kitchen.
W installed the kitchen  in July 2015,  but Mr H wasnt happy with the quality  of the installation 
and raised his concerns with W immediately. Mr H and W discussed this matter at length  
over a period  of time.  W inspected the kitchen on a number of occasions and compiled 
reports into what it thought needed to be done to put things right. But further work wasnt  
done.
In April 2017 W emailed  Mr H to say that the finance  agreement  had now lapsed and said 
that Mr H would now need to arrange  payment  directly through W. It asked Mr H to reply 
back if he didnt think the kitchen installation had been fully completed.  It said that, as the 
agreement had lapsed, the debt had reverted back to W which Mr H needed  to pay himself.  
W reiterated this again in a further email in May 2017.
In June 2017 BPF discussed the matter with W and it says it was agreed that the kitchen 
had been installed  and only remedial works were required to complete  the order. So, on this 
basis, BPF activated the agreement and released payment to W. It then emailed Mr H to 
confirm the loan was activated.
In May 2018, BPF wrote to Mr H to say that the 12 month interest  free period was coming to 
an end and that it would start taking the direct debit payments to pay the loan.  Mr H then 
complained about this. He said that he hadnt  signed a certificate of satisfaction  to say that 
he was happy  with the kitchen and he remained unhappy with it. So he said BPF shouldnt  
have released  the payment. He also said that it didnt contact him to say it had activated the 
loan.
BPF said that it didnt  have to wait for the satisfaction certificate to release the funds. It was 
satisfied that the kitchen  had been  installed,  so it was entitled  to activate the loan. It said it 
emailed Mr H to say that the loan was activated and sent a reminder letter  in May 2018. 
However it agreed to extend the interest free deferment period for a further month, but it 
didnt think it did anything  wrong in activating  the loan.
Mr H still didnt think BPF should have activated  the loan. But he also subsequently made a 
claim against BPF under section 75 of the consumer credit act 1974 that the kitchen 
provided by W wasnt of satisfactory quality.  And he complained to this service  about the 
way that BPF had handled the section 75 in addition to the fact that it activated the loan 
agreement. The complaint  about  the handling of the section 75 claim was dealt with under a 
separate complaint.
Ref: DRN12805792Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. She didnt  think it was unreasonable that 
BPF activated the agreement as she didnt think it had to wait for a certificate of satisfaction. 
But she thought  that BPF should have  taken more steps to inform Mr H that it had activated 
the agreement. She was satisfied that BPF had emailed Mr H, but she didnt think Mr H had 
seen the email  she thought it was possible it went into Mr Hs junk email folder. She 
thought BPF should have also sent a letter confirming it had done so. And she thought  this 
had caused Mr H some distress and inconvenience.  So she thought  BPF should  pay him 
£150 in compensation.
BPF accepted the investigators opinion,  but Mr H didnt agree.  He said that this matter has 
caused him and his family a significant  amount of distress and inconvenience  and he didnt 
think £150 was a fair reflection of this.
The investigator said that she could only award  compensation for the way BPF handled this 
matter  i.e. she couldnt  take into account  any issues W had caused with the installation  of 
the kitchen. Mr H still didnt think the compensation was fair and asked for an ombudsman  to 
review the complaint.
Since then,  Mr H has been allowed to reject  the kitchen and the agreement has ended with 
Mr H not being  required to pay anything towards  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the investigators recommendation of £150 in compensation is fair and Ill now explain 
why.
First of all, I need to explain that Im only looking at BPFs decision to activate the finance 
agreement. Im not looking at the way W handled the installation of the kitchen, the way BPF 
handled his section 75 claim or the distress and inconvenience that Mr H suffered as a result 
of the way the kitchen was installed. Also,  given  Mr H has now been able to reject  the 
kitchen and end the agreement without  having paid anything towards it, he hasnt lost out 
financially as a result. So I havent looked  at this either.
Mr H is adamant that he was told BPF wouldnt activate the kitchen until he signed a 
certificate of satisfaction. And I think its likely he was told that at the outset and W did 
confirm this again in its emails  to him in April and May 2017. However BPF has agreed to 
pay Mr H £150 in compensation. Even  if I was to say that BPF shouldnt  have paid W until 
Mr H signed the certificate  of satisfaction  and Im not saying it shouldnt have done so  
£150 is in line with the amount of compensation I would  have  awarded.
I note Mr H says that this whole situation has been exceptionally distressing to him and his 
family. And I dont dispute that. But I think the majority of this is down to the way W installed 
the kitchen and its handling  of the matter. And, as I said,  Im not able to look at this in this 
complaint. Im also conscious  that, had Barclays not activated the loan,  he wouldnt have 
been able to benefit from making a successful  section  75 claim. 
I can see that Mr H did have to contact BPF a number of times to query why it released  the 
payment to W and complain about its decision to do so. And I dont dispute that this would 
Ref: DRN12805793have added to the distress  and inconvenience that he was already having. But I think  £150 is 
fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience that this issue  has caused him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think the £150 in compensation that 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays Partner Finance has agreed to 
pay Mr H in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience it caused him in activating the 
finance agreement  is fair. It should pay this to him directly if it hasnt already done so. I make  
no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1280579