K821x#15complaint
Mrs J agreed  to a holistic financial planning service with Financial Services Gateway Ltd 
(FSG). She has complained about a number  of issues relating to that agreement. In 
summary, these are:
FSG advised her to place the proceeds from the sale of her business on a platform. 
This money was not invested.  FSG has continued  to earn fees on the fund.
She has been running an overdraft to pay fees.
Various tools have  had to be paid for. Total costs paid to FSG have been nearly £800 
a month.
Despite spending  many evenings and weekends  working  on financial plans, progress 
has been glacial.  This has been  very stressful for Mrs J.
Only one pension  drawdown had been effected  in April 2015. Two others that had 
been paid for had not been executed.
Despite promises to speed up the drawdown  nothing has happened.  
Mrs J had been diagnosed with health  issues. At times the adviser has been  verbally  
abusive and she feared complaining to him.
Mrs J wanted advice  about IHT issues. She started four policies, but has had to 
cancel three because she couldnt afford the premiums.  She would also like FSG to 
be removed from these  policies and not to receive any commission.
background
There has been a lot of evidence submitted by both parties for me to consider during the 
course of the investigation of this complaint. I set out all of the arguments in some  detail in 
my provisional decision dated  27 February  2020. I have reviewed all of the evidence. What  
follows is a summary of the key points. 
On 21 April 2009 Mrs J signed an agreement for holistic financial planning. This included a 
section on face to face sales. This explained  what would happen if FSG arranged any 
investments. And there was a table of the fees that would  apply.
The client  agreement also included three levels of service. These were:
Level 1 said: Do it yourself  Cost Effective Financial Planning  Coaching  Service 
Agreement.
The paperwork states that this is to provide customers  with the knowledge to enter  into 
financial agreements.  This service  cost £60 a month.
Level 2 said: Assisted Financial Analysis Service Agreement 
This provides customers with an analysis of their circumstances  and assistance with 
designing a financial  strategy. This cost £79 a month.
Level 3 said: Assisted Financial Strategies  Implementation Service Agreement 
This level provides  a full advice service at £120  a month.  
Mrs J ticked boxes agreeing to all three  service  levels. 
Ref: DRN10480482FSG also sent a letter  to Mrs J dated  21 April 2009  setting out details of the different service 
propositions of financial planning and financial  advice. The letter provided some detail about 
the proposition.  It explained the difference between  financial advice and financial planning  
as:
The advice is more  about product- focused-need - it has a more limited  scope.  It is a 
tactical approach whereby  the adviser  must  ensure that the solution  they recommend 
works for the client, the solution usually means recommending a product. It is not 
always the case but the engagement is likely  to terminate after implementation  of the 
solution at some point  down  the line. As a business case, this is flawed.
In financial planning,  the process  puts your goals, needs and objectives at its core. 
It's an integrated  approach. It is strategic,  and looks to balance  the different  
strategies recommended  in a way that puts you in control of your financial future  with 
clarity. The solution is the financial plan creation  and maintenance, augmented by the 
ongoing relationship and service that develops as a result.
A letter from FSG to Mrs J dated 22 April 2009 set out her objectives.  These  were:
1.Cash for downsize and later general investment,  maximised  to ISA where  possible.
2.Emergency
3.Refurbishment
4.Healthcare
5.Retirement
FSG provided a report titled Financial strategies dated 21 April 2009.  The report is 38 
pages long and contains details of Mrs Js personal  and financial circumstances. The report 
included analysis of Mrs Js future needs  and her financial position. One of those 
assumptions was that she would not retire until age 75. It appears that the assumption was 
about taking benefits from the pension plans. The conclusion was based on a number of 
different assumptions  that Mrs J would have a shortfall in 2021. 
A number  of suggestions  were made  to deal with this shortfall, including  reducing  
expenditure, refinancing loans and downsizing her home. It was also suggested  that Mrs J 
could alter some of her investments. 
Mrs J signed a letter dated 12 December 2010 addressed to FSG. In it she referred  to 
discussions about assets held in cash and planning  scenarios. She needed access  to her 
funds for her plans.  The assets should therefore be held in cash. Mrs J then outlined  a 
number of steps to be taken  to provide for her daughter and pay for her properties. Finally,  
she explained that she wanted to cancel her whole of life policies but keep on with the 
financial planning fees.
A number  of client services agreements  have been provided to us. One was signed on 
24 June 2012.  This included  an extra two service levels.  The agreement  said about service  
level 4: It is designed to periodically collate information from all the other three levels  and 
consolidate it into a holistic plan with reviews for you. And for level 5 is said: It is designed  
to give you a deeper understanding providing  a greater control of your investments than our 
analytical implementation and review service.
Mrs J agreed  to all five service levels.
Ref: DRN10480483Mrs J told us about her circumstances in 2009.  She had funds available  to be invested.  
These were  placed on a platform  with Transact. She had a commercial property. This 
provided an income which had been reduced  by about £1,000 a year after the financial crisis  
in 2008  09. There were legal fees to pay. She had a buy to let property  which provided 
income but there was a mortgage. Her home had a mortgage. The interest was offset by 
savings which varied. She had a State pension and a private  pension  providing income. A 
tax bill was due to be paid by 31 January 2010.
Mrs J said she started  a company in May 2009.  This was after advice from FSG that this 
would save tax on her income.
Mrs J paid £259 a month  for the three services up until 12 August 2009;  a further £50 a 
month was paid from that date. On 5 September  2009 another  Client Agreement was 
signed. This added  a fourth service level  Comprehensive  Plan Preparation. This cost £50 
a month  and was designed to Collate  from all the other three  levels and consolidate it into a 
cohesive plan for you based on set assumptions.
A third Client Agreement was signed on 9 May 2010. On 13 December 2010 a fourth Client  
Agreement was signed. All four service  levels (at the same prices) were chosen  in both 
agreements.
All four amounts  were  paid from 12 August 2009 until 4 January 2011. On this date two 
additional monthly payments were added of £13 and £10 for financial tools.  This totals £332 
a month.
These payments  continued until 23 June 2011  when a further payment of £85 a month was 
added for access to the Morningstar tool. The seven payments  of £60, £79, £120, £50, £13, 
£10, £85 were paid until September 2011.
From 9 September  2011  a fee of £420  a month was paid as well as £42 a month for 
financial planning. In February 2012 £50 a month was added for portfolio selection 
bringing the total monthly fee to £512  which was paid until July 2012.
On 24 June 2012 a fifth Client Agreement  was signed by Mrs J. The fees for the service 
levels had increased  and a fifth service  level was added as Bespoke  in depth Wealth  
Management. It cost £200 a month  and was defined as:
It is designed to give you a deeper  understanding providing a greater control  of your 
investments than our analytical, implementation  and review  service. Creating for you 
Outcome Specific fund watch lists and maintaining  them for you by researching with you 
interactively
All five levels  were chosen  although  under the heading Fee Variance it says that if the 
consumer is signed  up as a business  on the Cash Flow Management  Service  (CFM) the 
notional fees quoted  may not apply. It lists Mrs Js CFM fees for the 2012/2013 tax year as 
£420 for BTL (two properties  from which  Mrs J receives rent); £50 for one of Mrs Js 
companies; and a further £55 for the same company.
From 9 July 2012 Mrs J said she paid £420,  £50 and £54 a month  until 10 September  2012. 
From this date she paid £420,  £50 and £105 a month until 27 March 2013.
Ref: DRN10480484Mrs J has said that the following increases  were  made:
27 March 2013 - £105 increased  to £130
18 June 2013  - £130 increased to £143
15 July 2013  - £50 increased to £75
14 November 2013 - £75 increased  to £100
By November 2013 Mrs J was paying  monthly  amounts  of £420, £100 and £143 - a total of 
£663.
A sixth Client Agreement was signed on 14 January  2014. This document  said: Uniquely 
this service proposition,  places greater emphasis on client  education in order  to make  you 
capacitated to take investment decision. Therefore,  there is no set end date and all activities  
will take place at your pace until you are tutored to become fully confident and decisive to 
make suitable choice(s).  The meetings  will be aimed to progress you forward from your 
current position a step at a time to reach  your goals.
And:
I believe  that Investing without knowledge  just on my recommendation alone is the biggest 
risk for you.
This agreement also required Mrs J to write  a suitability  letter  and take part in quizzes to 
demonstrate her understanding. Failure of these,  or other listed requirements could result in 
considerable delay  or non-construction of Mrs J financial plans. This document said that 
Mrs J was paying the Strategic Cash Flow Management and Guidance  Service  fees - £420, 
£143 and £100. These  payments continued until the following increases were  made:
9 May 2014 - £420  increased to £432
20 June 2014  - £143 increased to £155
This brought  Mrs Js payments to £687 a month. 
Mrs J began paying £205, £382 and £205 from 15 July 2015. The payment of £205 was 
increased to £208  from September  2014.  Mrs J said she stopped some payments in October  
of that year due to lack of progress. In December 2014 the three  payments resumed and a 
total of £798 was paid in monthly  fees.
On 29 December 2014 the final Client Agreement was signed by Mrs J. It said the fees 
payable were £382 monthly  for Strategic Cash Flow Management and Guidance  service. 
This was said to include all five service levels. Other fees included  booking support for BTL 
at £208 and Mrs Js company  at £208.
Under the heading Your Responsibilities it said:
Demonstrate your understanding, pre-implementation by writing  me a primary suitability 
letter explaining  benefits, pros and cons,  retained risks, trade-offs,  and Knock-on-effects 
including and of alternatives strategies to meet your goals and objectives.
These payments  were maintained until May 2015.
Ref: DRN10480485In addition to the above  there were  charges  for the platforms and the funds on these. In both 
the December  2010 and June 2012 Client Agreements a fee of £13 and £20 respectively 
was payable for platform due diligence. Also, the Client Agreements of 14 January 2014 and 
December 2014  show a fee of £10 a month for a minimum of 12 months for the maintenance 
of the Client  Relationship Management Tool.
Platforms
After the sale of her business Mrs J placed  £210,000 onto a Transact platform in 2009.  
However, she says she has remained largely  in cash.
I have been provided with copies of the correspondence for the setting up of the platform 
with Transact in 2009. Mrs J signed  a letter dated 1 April 2009.  This explained why Mrs J 
wanted a platform  for her savings and investments to hold on one digital dashboard. 
FSG wrote to Mrs J on 21 April 2009  headed  Reasons Why Not Platform. This explained  
that the platform had charges that had to be paid from the investments. The platform 
therefore wasnt suitable for Mrs J as she wasnt ready to invest. The letter  went on to 
explain that suitable advice would be to gather  funds  and put these in a bank account that 
did not have charges. No other  investments should  be moved to the platform until Mrs J was 
ready to invest.  Mrs J should  also look to pay off loans. Risk warnings were also provided.
FSG then sent a letter to Mrs J on 22 April 2009 setting out Mrs Js objectives and referring 
to the letter  dated 6 April 2009.  Mrs J was asked to sign the letter if she still wanted  to 
proceed, which she did.
FSG said that the use of a platform was beneficial for the business  in accordance with its 
cyber service and Mrs Js needs  for holistic financial planning. It said Mrs J could have put 
the money elsewhere to avoid charges and wasnt under any compulsion to stay on the 
platforms.
Mrs J signed an application form for the platform on 22 April 2009. This included  details of 
the adviser at FSG and the remuneration to be paid. This was for an initial 3% of the amount 
invested and 0.5%  a year annually. If Mrs J made  a switch of funds 0.5% of the amount 
switched would be charged.
A letter to Transact  dated 23 November 2009 and signed by Mrs J increased the annual 
payment to FSG was increased to 1% a year except for cash  which was set at 0.5%.
An instruction to amend adviser payment was signed  on 26 March 2013. Any new payments 
into Transact had no initial  charge,  but 1.25% annual charge.  Existing  investments had an 
annual charge of 1.25%.
In 2012 Mrs J put a further £82,000 on a second platform with Elevate. This was from the 
proceeds of the surrender of an investment. That had been written in trust for the benefit of 
Mrs J and her daughters.
Pensions
Mrs J had three pensions. She also mentions creating a trust to hold her Skandia pensions  
for the benefit  of her daughters.
Ref: DRN10480486The Retirement Options  Questionnaire  dated  8 March 2015  list these  as:
1.AXA Friends Life EPP
a. Started: 5 January 1995
b. Value as at March 2015: £87,037
c. With more than 25% tax free cash available
2.Clerical Medical (Retirement Annuity Contract)
a. Started: 10 May 1984
b. Value as at March 2015: £30,065
c. With a Guaranteed  Annuity
3.Aviva  (Personal Pension  Plan)
a. 1 February 1989
b. Value as at March 2015: £30,420
In 2010 information was requested from the above three pension providers. In August 2012  
FSG prepared a report comparing  income drawdown and annuities.
A letter was completed, by Mrs J, on 23 August 2013. This set out her objectives  to provide 
sustainable income and to pass on her estate without asset stripping. She wanted  access to 
her enhanced tax-free cash  to pay off debts and help her daughter financially. Mrs J says in 
this letter  that she wanted to consolidate  her pensions into one drawdown plan and continue 
to contribute to that plan.
FSG completed its recommendation letter on 10 April 2015. It confirmed Mrs Js financial 
objectives had not changed.  And it categorised Mrs J as a Moderately Adventurous 
Investor who was prepared to invest no more than £300 gross a month  for her lifetime.
The option  discussed  and agreed was for Mrs J to take the maximum tax-free cash from 
her EPP and move the remaining funds into a drawdown plan. FSG recommended  Friends  
Life to prevent the loss of the enhanced  tax-free cash. It said that before a suitable  portfolio 
could be constructed  the funds would be placed in a cash fund temporarily. It said that the 
cost of this advice would be £2,975 (although Mrs J had already paid £2,500).
Mrs J made  a number of requests to withdraw funds from the platforms because  she needed 
the money for mortgages  or other  payments. This included a payment to FSG for work  done 
to implement the drawdown facility in 2013.  I note this wasnt  completed until 2015. Mrs J 
made several references to her need  to access the tax-free cash from her EPP.
I have seen an invoice  from FSG dated  13 January 2014 for £1,050 for Administration Fee 
for AXA Executive  Pension Tax Free Cash. I understand the EPP was moved  into a 
drawdown plan in 2015. 
Mrs J terminated the relationship with FSG in 2015. She then made her complaint. I set out 
the full details of Mrs Js complaint in my provisional  decision. The summary  of her complaint 
is at the start of this final decision.
Ref: DRN10480487One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. She thought the complaint should be 
upheld. She said the fees were excessive and should be refunded. The pensions  hadnt 
been arranged.  And the platforms were invested in cash, which was unsuitable.
FSG did not agree. They made a number of points. I then issued a provisional decision.  FSG 
argued that financial planning was not a regulated activity and we could  not consider a 
complaint about  financial  planning or the fees Mrs J paid for that service.  I issued  a decision 
concluding that the activities were  regulated and we were able to investigate a complaint 
from Mrs J. There were some activities we could not consider.
I issued my second provisional decision  on 27 February 2020. I upheld  the complaint and 
explained how FSG should compensate Mrs J. In summary, I explained my reasons for 
upholding the complaint  as:
my provisional findings - jurisdiction
The rules  about  complaints  that this Service can consider  are set out in the FCA Handbook. 
The complaints handling rules are set out in the section under DISP.  
DISP 2.3.1 of the FCA Handbook says:
The Ombudsman  can consider  a complaint under  the Compulsory  Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities:
1. (1) regulated activities (other than auction regulation  bidding);
.
Or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Regulated activities include:
 Advising on investments
 Arranging (bringing about) deals in investments; and
 Making arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments.
FSG still maintained that Financial Planning  was not regulated and that I was not able to 
deal with a complaint about the fees.  I said I had to decide whether  the acts or omissions 
Mrs J was complaining about were  regulated  activities.  I thought we could deal with some  of 
the issues, but not all of them.
Fees paid for financial planning since  April 2009
FSG said the fees were  non-regulated. I explained  the fees themselves were not regulated, 
but the activities they related to could be regulated. Mrs J had been a client  of the adviser at 
FSG for some years. She had been receiving advice about her pensions;  investments and 
mortgages. These were  all regulated activities. 
In April 2009 Mrs J signed the first of a number of client agreements.  This was headed: 
Client agreement for face to face sales.  It explained FSG was regulated by the Financial 
Services Authority. And that it was permitted to advise on and arrange savings and 
investment products, pensions, mortgages and non-investment insurance  contracts.
Ref: DRN10480488I explained that in my view, the agreement  indicated Mrs J was paying the fees in the 
expectation that FSG would be advising and arranging investments. These were regulated 
activities. So, in my view we can consider complaints  about  those activities.
The agreement also included details of the different levels  of service that could be provided  
by FSG. Mrs J ticked boxes to accept three  levels of service.  The first was a coaching 
service. The aim was to deliver teaching. This would enable  Mrs J to make her own financial 
plans.
Service level 2 included  analysis  of Mrs Js circumstances and assistance with designing a 
financial strategy. It was not clear what that entailed, but my view was it involved some 
element of advice.  Mrs J wanted advice on her pensions and investments. I thought it was 
likely that this level involved advising on investments.  That was a regulated  activity.  This 
service can investigate complaints about  advice on investments including the fees paid.
Service level 3 was for a full advice service. Even if I was wrong about service level 2, this 
level was for a full advice  service. I explained we could investigate  complaints about advising 
on investments.
I said I had seen evidence  FSG confirmed in a workbook  dated  11 May 2017  it was one 
service, a full workflow process of Financial Planning. As I had concluded we could consider 
complaints about  some  of the activities, this meant  we could consider a complaint about the 
fees for financial planning.
Holistic Financial Planning
FSG was providing a holistic financial planning  service to Mrs J. She signed  the first 
agreement for this service  on 21 April 2009.  A number of different agreements  had been 
signed since that date. 
I said FSG explained in its final response  to Mrs Js complaint  that it did not provide  just 
advice on IHT, pensions and investment in retirement. The service  was for holistic  financial 
planning. As such FSG took care of all of Mrs Js finances. This included  the IHT, pensions  
and investments. The description  of the service  showed FSG gave advice about personal  
pensions and investments. This was specifically about the EPP and taking her pension  
benefits. I thought  as part of the service  Mrs J was expecting  to receive advice about her 
investments, including her pensions.  
Much of the complaint was about the lack of action in providing advice. This service  can 
consider an act or omission to do with a regulated activity. Failure  to provide the advice is 
therefore a complaint that we can consider.
I also explained advising on investments was not the only regulated activity FSG was 
providing.
FSG helpfully referred to the Perimeter Guidance in the FCA handbook. This sets out 
guidance about how different rules should be interpreted.  In particular, I considered  
PERG 2.7.14 and PERG  2.7.7B. These deal with advising on investments  and making 
arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
Ref: DRN10480489PERG 2.7.7B says:
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments; is aimed at arrangements 
that would  have the direct effect  that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, 
arrangements that bring it about). The activity of making arrangements with a view to 
transactions in investments is concerned with arrangements of an ongoing nature whose 
purpose is to facilitate the entering into of transactions by other parties. This activity has a 
potentially broad scope and typically applies in one of two scenarios. These are where a 
person provides arrangements of some kind:
(1) to enable or assist  investors to deal with or through a particular firm (such  as the 
arrangements made by introducers); or
(2) to facilitate the entering into of transactions directly by the parties (such as multilateral 
trading facilities of any kind other than those excluded under article 25(3)  of the 
Regulated Activities  Order, exchanges,  clearing  houses and service  companies (for 
example, persons who provide communication  facilities for the routing of orders or the 
negotiation of transactions)).
I went on to consider whether these activities were carried out for Mrs J by FSG.
Arranging (bringing  about) deals in investments;
Mrs Js objectives were  recorded in 2013. I explained not all of these would amount to 
arranging investments, so that the activity  was regulated. But taking the tax-free cash from 
her pension and consolidating  into a drawdown  facility meant that the investments were  
being bought or sold. That was a regulated activity. The wording of the client agreement 
signed in April 2009 indicated that FSG arranged investments.
I had seen emails between FSG and AXA about Mrs Js EPP.  This had protected tax free 
cash. The emails  explained how Mrs J would be able to take her benefits  retaining the 
entitlement to the protected tax-free  cash.  I thought this indicated  some of the work 
undertaken was to arrange an investment.
I was satisfied Mrs J was expecting FSG to arrange  investments  for her. This involved the 
transfer of her existing  pension plans. These  were  specific investments that were being  sold.  
That was a regulated activity and complaints about  arranging those investments and the 
fees can be considered by this service.
Making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments
This regulated activity  is very broadly written. I considered the activities  carried  out by FSG. 
The object of the service level 1 agreement  was to provide Mrs J with knowledge and 
experience to contract into financial planning arrangements. It was not clear those 
arrangements would be investments that were  regulated. But evidence  provided by Mrs J 
indicated some of the sessions were about  drawdown and consolidating her pensions. This 
included evidence of a meeting on 1 December 2013 entitled drawdown and pension  
consolidation. And it included  investment models and templates with Transact. It was clear  
some of the activity was about investments and particularly the platform with Transact.
Having considered the regulated activities and the service that FSG said it was providing, as 
well as the activity  that was actually provided, I was satisfied FSG was providing  regulated  
activities. 
Ref: DRN104804810FSG had also said it could not give advice on using drawdown until Mrs J had capacity for 
loss. When Mrs J appointed another advisory firm the groundwork  had been  done, but not 
yet implemented by FSG. In my view,  the work FSG was doing was intended  to allow  Mrs J 
to move into drawdown. This must  fall within the regulated activity of making  arrangements 
with a view to transactions  in investments.
Even if I was wrong about the fees being for regulated activities,  I thought they must  be 
ancillary to those activities. It was clear  that the intention was to advise on pensions,  
investments and IHT. 
I was satisfied we could consider the complaint made by Mrs J about the fees for financial 
planning.
I then considered whether an oral hearing  was necessary. There was a vast amount of 
written evidence available to me, including contemporaneous evidence. I explained I did not 
require an oral hearing to fairly determine the outcome of this complaint.
I went on to explain my findings about Mrs Js complaint.
Client Agreements
I said Mrs J paid regular monthly  fees to FSG for Financial Planning.  It was not in dispute 
that Mrs J spent many hours  with the adviser on activities set out in the agreements. Mrs Js 
complaint is wide ranging, but a major point is she paid fees with little or no progress
I explained I thought the purpose of Mrs J entering  into the Client  Agreements  was for her to 
receive help and assistance in dealing with her finances. It was an unusual  arrangement  and 
not one I had seen before. Many of the tasks  carried  out appeared to have been to provide 
Mrs J with training, information  or understanding to make financial plans. And I thought that 
involved investing her funds in investments. However, it wasnt  clear  to me what  benefit 
Mrs J could really  expect  from this activity. She was invoiced separately for transactions 
following any advice from FSG. 
Mrs J provided  a large amount of evidence about what happened during her appointments 
with FSG. This includes her own handwritten notes as well as printouts from the tools  being 
used and emails  between her and FSG. 
FSG also provided a significant  amount of evidence.  This included  some reports titled 
Financial strategies. One report was dated  21 April 2009.  The report was 38 pages long 
and contained  details of Mrs Js personal and financial circumstances. The report also 
included analysis of Mrs Js future needs  and her financial position. One of those 
assumptions was that she would not retire until age 75. It appeared the assumption was 
about taking benefits from the pension plans. The conclusion was that using  a number of 
different assumptions  Mrs J would have  a shortfall in 2021. 
A number  of suggestions  were made  to deal with this shortfall, including  reducing  
expenditure, refinancing loans and downsizing her home. It was also suggested  Mrs J could 
alter some of her investments. 
Ref: DRN104804811The evidence showed Mrs J did start on a plan to downsize  her home and buy some rental 
properties. However, this was some time after the report produced in April 2009. The action 
taken in April 2009 appeared  to have revolved around Mrs J ignoring FSGs advice and 
placing money on a platform with Transact.  I could not see any evidence of positive action  
being taken to address the shortfall FSG identified.
In 2010 Mrs J took action  by cancelling three  of the four policies intended to deal with an IHT 
liability. FSG advised against cancelling these policies. This was a regulated activity, but 
FSGs involvement did not assist with the cash flow shortfall identified in the report  from 
April 2009.
The downsizing exercise was progressing in 2011/2012. Unfortunately, Mrs J became ill and 
those plans had to be stopped. I made  two points about this. The first was that despite 
identifying the need to reduce expenditure this had not been achieved  nearly  three years 
later. The second point  was that FSG was charging separate fees for arranging  the 
mortgages. Most of those  fees were not paid because the mortgages did not go ahead.  I 
thought this all indicated there  was very little being  achieved as a result of the holistic  
financial planning.
The total fees paid for the holistic  financial planning were  over a six-year period. I had not 
been able to identify any tangible evidence of any results from this service.  FSG invoiced 
separately for any transactional work. The fees charged for the transactional work appeared 
to be in line with fees charged by other firms  for similar work. I could not see there was any 
need for the holistic  financial planning  fees to be paid as well.
Mrs J supplied a number  of documents showing how difficult  it was to have meetings with 
FSG. One of these was dated 17 November 2014.  I thought showed the frustration she felt 
about delays.  Having reviewed all of the evidence, I thought this was typical of the delays  I 
had seen from FSG. But more importantly, the fact Mrs J had been a holistic financial 
planning client since April 2009  and very little had actually been  achieved spoke volumes.
My conclusion was that the fees paid under  the Financial Planning Agreements were  all 
unnecessary. I had not been able to identify any evidence  of a tangible  benefit to Mrs J. So, I 
thought the fees paid under those Client Agreements should be refunded.
FSG made the point  that I had taken the view that only regulated activities have any value. I 
did not agree. However, it was true that some of the activities  in the holistic  financial 
planning agreement  were not regulated, but as I had said, some  were. And the activities  
were all very closely linked so the fees were all linked to the regulated activities. For 
example, assessing  the cash flow had to include  income produced from investments and 
pensions.
FSG was paid separately for transactional  services. That was regardless  of whether the 
activity was regulated  or not. I thought,  FSG had been paid fees for the transactions actually 
completed. I did not see any value to Mrs J from paying the holistic  financial planning fees; 
whether those fees were for activities that were regulated  or not.
Ref: DRN104804812Mrs J paid fees of £60 a month using a standing  order from her business account.  Those  
fees appeared to have been for the services to be provided under the financial planning 
agreement. It wasnt  clear to me why those fees were paid by the business,  but the Client 
agreement was signed by Mrs J. It appeared to have been  for services to be provided to her. 
Although as the principal for her business  I thought it was likely Mrs J would benefit whether 
a service was to be provided to her personally or for her business. The regular fees paid 
should be refunded to Mrs J or to her business  depending on which party  paid those fees.
Advice to start  a platform with Transact  but the funds to be left in cash
I explained Mrs J signed a letter in which she requested a platform  service  to give her 
confidence in managing  her investments and savings on one digital dashboard. This was 
followed by a letter from FSG headed Reasons Why Not Platform. This referred to Mrs Js 
platform needs letter and explained a platform was not suitable for her. This was because of 
the charges and the platform was intended to be used for investments. If no investments 
were made then the returns on cash would be too low to offset the charges. The letter  then 
went on to set out what would be suitable  advice.
A letter dated 22 April 2009 was sent to Mrs J and signed by her. This explained that 
following Mrs Js Platform needs letter FSG had given advice not to use a platform.  
However, Mrs J wished  to go ahead and FSG recommended Transact. FSG set out the 
reasons for Transact and the disadvantages, including the costs.
I explained we had asked Mrs J about this correspondence. She said it appeared to be 
written by FSG. The Platform needs letter used technical language written in the advisers 
style. 
I agreed with Mrs J that the correspondence used technical language. It appeared to me 
unlikely it was written without help from FSG. The style of the letter used phrases and 
language that were  similar to those used  by FSG. I explained this was one of the features I 
look for when deciding whether a consumer had genuinely been an insistent client.  Although 
it might  have been helpful to have a platform, I did not consider Mrs J was likely  to request a 
digital dashboard. I was supported in this conclusion because FSG required Mrs J to write  
her own suitability letter for the pension drawdown. This showed FSG was used to asking 
Mrs J to write financial documents.
I was not satisfied Mrs J genuinely  wanted  a platform holding the investment in cash. I 
thought it was unsuitable and FSG caused the platform with Transact  to be arranged.  
Advice to start  platform with Elevate
I explained Mrs J had an existing investment  which was transferred to AXA Elevate. FSG 
received ongoing adviser  payments. The original investment was held offshore and held in 
trust. The transfer was made to Elevate and I had seen  evidence Mrs J wanted the funds 
held separately  from those with Transact. A number  of withdrawals  were  made  from the 
platform until the funds  had all been withdrawn. I understood those funds were used as 
Mrs Js income  position was difficult and repayments were made to her mortgage.
I thought it was unnecessary to switch investments to a new platform.  I thought the funds 
would have remained invested. 
Ref: DRN104804813Delays in arranging pension drawdown
I went on to deal with the delays in arranging income from Mrs Js pension  plans. Mrs J 
signed the first of the client agreements with FSG in April 2009. Information about her 
pension plans was requested on a number of occasions. The first plan was not put into 
payment until April 2015. That is a very long time to put pensions  into payment. At first sight  
it appeared to be far too long and something must have gone wrong.
FSG had said following the death  of her husband that Mrs J was well abounded with wealth. 
But FSG said it was not able to advise Mrs J about using drawdown until she had capacity to 
loss. A document completed on 21 April 2009  headed Financial Strategies  and completed  by 
FSG provided a significant amount of detail  about  Mrs Js circumstances. This document 
demonstrated that Mrs J had the capacity to accept the risk of using drawdown. I thought 
FSG should have  appreciated this and then given suitable advice to Mrs J.
The work FSG was doing  with Mrs J involved cashflow planning and educational sessions. 
One of the tasks for Mrs J was to write  her own suitability letter.  That was unique  in my 
experience and not something I would ever have expected a consumer  to have to do. I could 
not see what value  there  was for Mrs J to complete the letter.  It was such an unusual 
approach to either financial  planning  or financial  advice  that I accepted Mrs Js version  of 
events that she spent many hours on the phone  and on the computer with FSG.
I said Mrs Js notes supported her version  of events. These were not always easy  to follow 
as they were her own notes, but they did show the delays being  caused in arranging  the 
pension drawdown.  One task was shown as very high for drawdown and pension 
consolidation due 1 December 2013.  I took this to mean very high priority. Mrs Js notes  
about an online meeting on 24 November 2013 also showed she was frustrated with the 
delays.
I thought Mrs J was able to withstand any loss arising from using a suitably designed 
drawdown plan.  She had income from property and savings on the platform in addition  to her 
pension plans. It was noticeable when she appointed a new adviser that they were quickly 
able to provide  suitable advice to Mrs J after she terminated the agreement with FSG. I did 
not accept this had anything  to do with the actions  taken by FSG during the six years  Mrs J 
had been a financial planning  client. In particular, I thought as the new adviser identified  and 
used a guaranteed annuity rate available with Clerical  Medical.  FSG could and should have 
identified that much sooner.
I said Mrs J had to request information  from the pension providers on a number of 
occasions. I thought this should not have been  necessary  if FSG had provided  suitable 
advice and acted  on the information provided.  Overall, I thought  FSG had not provided 
suitable advice  and took far too long to make progress. Mrs J paid fees for arranging the 
drawdown. Although  one plan was arranged this was after a period of six years.
I concluded FSG did not provide the service  or advice that Mrs J paid for. I then went  on to 
consider the additional  fees Mrs J paid.
Ref: DRN104804814Ad hoc fees
I explained FSG spent  many hours with Mrs J. I thought much  of this time spent  was 
unnecessary. However, FSG also charged a number of ad hoc fees.  Both FSG and Mrs J 
had provided a lot of information about the fees paid. Some  of that information was in 
dispute. I provided an updated appendix  with details of those fees attached  to the end of my 
provisional decision. 
Mrs J made  the point that many of FSGs records were inaccurate or incomplete. She said 
the invoices did not necessarily relate to the work  completed. I explained I had to base my 
decision on the evidence  presented to me. Clearly,  there were many  areas  of dispute 
between Mrs J and FSG. I needed  to assess all of the evidence to decide what each 
payment was most likely to have been  for. I went on to explain what I thought each payment 
was for and whether it should be refunded.
The three payments  dated 22 May 2009  were for regular payments that had been missed. 
These have been  dealt  with above,  so did not need  to be separately refunded.
FSG provided a document titled: 'Costs paid to year end statement 2009'. Total paid in the 
year 2009  £518.  However, Mrs J has a copy of a document with the same heading showing 
three payments of: £100  on 4 April 2009;  £150 on 27 April 2009 and £2,550 on 
1 December 2009 totalling £2,800. This had been referred  to as buy to let invoices, but Mrs J 
said this was supposed to be for pension work which remained undone. She had provided 
copies of her diary entries indicating this from November-December 2009. It appeared from 
these records that FSGs  records were inaccurate or incomplete.  Clearly, Mrs J had a copy 
of a statement  that FSG had not provided  to us. And it was surprising that two statements for 
the same  year showed different  payments.  I thought Mrs Js evidence was credible and the 
three payments of £100; £150  and £2,550 should  be refunded.
Mrs Js notes indicated she was to pay £3,000  as £1,000 + £1,000  + two x £500. This was 
headed pension  T/fer. FSG provided  a spreadsheet of payments received from Mrs J, but 
the payment of £2,550  does not appear  on the spreadsheet for December 2009. I hadnt 
been able to identify the payment  that these notes  related to and could not say they should 
be refunded.
A cheque  for £50 was paid to FSG on 31 March  2010. Mrs J said it was for a financial 
calculator. I did not have  any details about that calculator. I could not say whether this was 
for something related to a regulated activity.  I therefore did not intend to make  an award to 
refund that payment.
I explained the payment dated 28 July 2010 was in dispute. Mrs J said an invoice to her 
business 'Costs paid to year end statement 2010', 27 June 2010 for £528.75  was for three 
Pension Audits including  VAT but was invoiced as "Legacy Planning and exit strategies in 
respect of [her business]". Her original document with the same  heading also has a £417.50 
charge dated  24 March  2010 '1st meeting cost - legacy planning & exit strategies in respect 
of [her business], bringing the invoice total to £946.25. There  were  two statements for the 
year end 2010. Both of these referred to the £528.75 as legacy planning and exit strategies 
in respect of Mrs Js business.  Although Mrs J pointed out that FSGs records  are confused, 
I had not seen any evidence to support her assertion that the payment was for three pension 
audits. I did not intend  to make an award  for this payment to be refunded.
Ref: DRN104804815One point that Mrs J made was that items appeared to have been duplicated. For example, 
she quoted from a document headed  Costs paid to year end statement 2010 . This had the 
same items listed as a document dated  30 December 2010 headed Invoice for your rented 
properties.  I agreed that the same  item for £1,770 appeared on both of these documents. It 
appeared to me the documents  served  different purposes  one was an invoice for bills to be 
paid whereas the other was a statement showing  details of payments actually  made. It 
wasnt clear why the payment of £2,306 appeared on an invoice but not on the statement. 
This was another example of FSGs records being inaccurate or incomplete. I therefore 
treated the evidence  as being unreliable; although  I was satisfied some of the evidence was 
correct.
Mrs J provided  a copy of an email she sent to FSG in July 2012  requesting  details of 
invoices for payments made. This referred  to a payment of £1,770 in December 2010 as a 
file review. The payment  of £2,306  was referred  to as pension  transfer.  A payment  of £200 in 
May 2011 had a question mark I take it from that notation that Mrs J did not know what  that 
payment was for.
The two payments in December  2010  for £1,770  and £2,306 were referred to by FSG as 
attribution analysis.  FSG provided a copy of a statement on which  only the payment of 
£1,770 appeared. A further payment in May 2011  for £200 was also described as attribution  
analysis. 
Mrs Js notes indicated the payment of £2,306 was 5% of the value  of her pension  with 
Aviva. The notes also showed a calculation of the fee using the fund values. I accepted  that 
the fee of £2,306 was for work related  to the pension transfer. I thought  the fee of £2,306 
should therefore be refunded.
Mrs Js notes from December 2010  also referred to pension analysis and she needed  to 
ask FSG for an invoice for the £1,770. Whilst this did not clearly show what the payment was 
for, I said it provided credible contemporaneous  evidence. FSG also provided  a spreadsheet 
with details of the activity  under the financial planning agreement. There was a record  of 223 
minutes for pension and investment review  on 15 November  2009 as well as 77 minutes on 
21 November 2009 for financial planning  investments and pension. There  were also other 
records for December 2009 about investments and asset allocation. This suggested to me 
that time was spent  dealing with the pensions at about the time of the payments being made. 
On balance, I thought the £1,770  was for pensions  work and should be refunded.
Mrs J also had evidence from her email  to FSG of 20 July 2012 that a payment of £1,205 
made on 23 May 2011 was for drawdown extra charges. FSG provided a statement showing 
this was for planning  and tax advice for properties.  It was not easy  to reach a conclusion  
about what that payment was actually for. I had found FSGs records were sometimes 
muddled, payments  appeared  to be duplicated and sometimes the reason given for work on 
an invoice did not match the other evidence available.  Mrs J had a contemporaneous written 
record of the reason  for the fee. On balance, I preferred her evidence  on this point. The 
payment of £1,205 should be refunded.
Ref: DRN104804816The payment dated  7 December 2011  was in dispute. FSG provided  an invoice showing this 
was for tips to help with the relationship with Mrs Js sister-in-law. Mrs J said this was for an 
asset protection trust for her pensions, but FSG supplied this description so that the invoice 
could be assigned to her company, through which Mrs J received rental income. Notebook 
entry 50 referred  to the asset protection trust and the pension. And Mrs J said FSG had 
attempted to use this against her, to allege that she wanted to evict her sister-in-law,  which  
has never been the case. Again, this invoice was not sent at the time. It represents  £1,200  
for the trust,  less £23 for a previous overpayment,  hence £1,177.
The evidence provided by Mrs J indicated the fee was paid for the asset protection trust.  Her 
notes indicated she had been discussing an asset  protection trust with FSG at about the 
time of the payment.  Notes from Mrs J referred to the death  benefits from pension plans. 
And there was a note that £23 could be deducted. FSG also referred to the pension  file and 
related trust in an email to Mrs J dated  1 August 2012. This confirmed  FSG was supposed to 
be arranging  a trust for the pension.
In my view, the estate  planning and pension trust is a more credible reason for the invoice 
than the one set out by FSG. I think it is unlikely a professional financial planner  would be 
involved in providing  tips for relationships  about family matters.  This fee of £1,177 should be 
refunded.
FSG provided a copy of an invoice with fees for videos dated 30 January 2011. This had 
details of charges  of 3 x £85 in June  2011;  and charges  of £90 and £117 for video rendering 
and preparation  in January 2011.  I thought it was likely the invoice should have been  dated 
2012, as it was unlikely the invoice would have been  issued in January 2011 for something  
in June 2011.
There was a dispute about what those  fees were  for. Mrs J said that payments of £85 were 
made for a tool with Morningstar.  Mrs J produced contemporaneous notes which referred  to 
Morningstar. Mrs J didnt remember agreeing to the other charges for video preparation  and 
video rendering. However, she did remember some instructional videos being supplied  in 
November 2011.  Mrs J also believed  some of the fees were paid for an electronic signature 
tool. FSG explained that various services were  provided as part of its fee agreement. This 
included investor  educational presentations, financial  coaching  and research.
My conclusion was that FSG provided  some tools for Mrs J to use. Whether that was 
Morningstar, which is for professional investors, or videos I thought they were unnecessary  
for Mrs J. And these  were  all for regulated activities as the Morningstar tool is for 
professional investors  and the videos are for investor education. I was not satisfied that the 
investor education was required; it was another cost Mrs J paid that she did not need.  The 
payments of £255  and £207 should be refunded.
Mrs J made  a payment  on 20 June  2012 of £150.  The email from FSG of 20 June 2012 was 
evidence this was for pension  analysis.  I was satisfied that this was for a regulated activity 
and the pension was not put into payment. That payment should be refunded.
The evidence from Mrs J also contradicted the invoices FSG had supplied.  I took this into 
account when  assessing which payments should  be refunded.
Ref: DRN104804817Mrs J provided  a copy of an email from FSG dated 1 August 2012. This referred to a trust 
form and a life assured.  The costs totalled £1,005. I was satisfied this related to a trust and 
appeared to be for the pension funds. This was referred to in the email of 1 August 2012. 
The trust did not appear to have been  arranged. The payment of £1,005 should be refunded.
A payment of £5,000  was made  on 26 November 2012.  There  was a dispute about this 
payment. FSG said it was for debt management and strategies for investment properties. 
Mrs J said it was two payments of £2,500 paid for pension transfers that were never 
executed. Clearly, this was a large sum of money to pay for services; whether  that was debt 
management or pension transfers. In either case, I would expect to see evidence of the work 
undertaken. I had not seen details of the debt management. Mrs Js notes indicated that the 
fees were for pension  transfers. On balance,  I thought the £5,000  was paid for pension 
transfers that were  not completed. I thought those fees should be refunded.
Mrs Js bank statement showed a payment  for £250  on 30 January 2013 annotated as 
investment advice. It wasnt clear what this payment was for, but again, I had not seen any 
evidence it was for any other work.  So I intended  to make an award that the payment should 
be refunded.
A payment of £1,050  made on 26 February  2013 was in dispute. FSG said this was for Will 
advice and tax planning for corporation. I had not seen any evidence to show this work was 
completed. Mrs Js notes indicated this was for pension transfer  analysis, drawdown  
analysis, portfolio optimisation and integration composite. Those  notes are not easy  to 
decipher, but they contained details I thought made them credible. I thought the payment 
was for work on Mrs Js pensions. That work was not completed and the fee of £1,050 
should be refunded.
Payments made on 11 March 2014  and 27 April 2014 each for £420 were  part of the regular 
payments made to FSG and have been dealt with above.
There were a number of other payments made  to FSG.  These appear to be for tax planning  
or related to the buy to let properties for Mrs Js companies. I thought these  were  unrelated  
to regulated activities. I did not intend to make  any award for those payments should be 
refunded.
Distress and inconvenience
Mrs J provided  a significant amount of evidence about her dealings with FSG. These  
included the complaint she made and the copies of notes and emails with FSG. In particular, 
I had taken account of the evidence from her psychotherapist.
One of the key points was the time taken for FSG to arrange any investments. There had 
been many  appointments and meetings but very little tangible evidence  of progress. During 
all of this time Mrs J was paying  hundreds of pounds  to FSG every month. I could see from 
her notes that she was frustrated and upset by the delays.
Ref: DRN104804818Many hours were spent  on issues that did not appear  to me to have any relevance to 
financial advising or planning. Asking Mrs J to write her own suitability report  appeared to me 
to be so unusual  I thought  it was bizarre. A financial adviser is, and was, required to give 
suitable advice  to their client.  I have  never  before seen a situation  where  the client  has to 
justify the advice they are being  given.  This is one example  of the many  times Mrs J had to 
carry out unnecessary  tasks. I was satisfied by her evidence this was distressing and there  
was little or no progress  being made.
One of the things that concerned me most  was the behaviour of the adviser at FSG towards 
Mrs J and her daughters. This was illustrated in the correspondence sent to me. I 
appreciated that FSG was defending its position,  but the language was certainly homophobic 
and probably sexist and racist too. It was certainly  unprofessional.
Mrs J made  the point about coercive control.  I did not need to make  a finding on that point, 
but it was clear to me that FSG kept Mrs J as a client by promising things  were  progressing. 
However, very little progress had been  made after six years.  I concluded that FSG were not 
acting in Mrs Js best interests.
I was satisfied that Mrs J had been caused a severe amount of distress and inconvenience. I 
intended to make an award  for £2,000 to compensate  her for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to her by FSGs dealings with her.
Finally, I set out how FSG should calculate  fair compensation  to be paid to Mrs J.
FSG did not agree. I set out all of the evidence and arguments in full in my provisional 
decision. I have  briefly summarised the evidence and arguments  above. FSGs position is:
FSG is now in liquidation and the complaint should be passed to the Financial  
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
My response was based  too much  on confirmation  bias.  This means I have certain 
views based on my limited experience based on financial products rather  than 
financial planning.
Adding Mrs Js businesses  into the complaint at this late stage was unfair.
I had made some  highly unprofessional remarks about FSG in my provisional 
decision. It is not the role of the ombudsman to make these remarks, but to 
impartially assess the evidence and adjudicate on the facts.
It had taken me over a year to confirm  the findings of the adjudicator.  I had not 
properly taken account of the evidence FSG supplied.
The fees I had said should be refunded were not related to any regulated activity. 
A spreadsheet prepared by FSG with details  of the fees had been ignored in favour  
of the contemporaneous evidence  from Mrs J. The fees and their objectives  were set 
out in the spreadsheet.
The overdraft was mainly due to excessive gifting by Mrs J.
Mrs J did not pay for all of the services  levels; for example, the £200 a month agreed 
on 24 June 2012. 
All invoices set out what  they were for and Mrs J paid these knowing why they were  
being paid. Any other advisory work  was for the existing  products  during reviews. I 
had tried to manifest this as unfinished work any fee charged for example say the 
Pension Audit was scaled and charged  appropriately.
Mrs J knew  the difference  between  financial  planning and transactional financial 
advice.
Ref: DRN104804819The platform fees arose because Mrs J insisted on acting as an insistent client  
against advice  from FSG.
Mrs J did not invest  £210,000 after the sale of her business. She repaid her 
commercial mortgage  and only placed  £21,000 on the platform.
The aim of financial  planning was stress removal. Mrs J engaged as a holistic  
financial planning client. There  was no proof any stress was caused by the financial 
planning.
The case  needed a complete review  because of my lack of understanding  about  
financial planning. 
Mrs J replied and submitted further evidence of fees paid to FSG over a number of years.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
the complaint  should be upheld for the reasons given in my provisional decision.
Our jurisdiction to consider the complaint
FSG told us it is now in liquidation and the complaint  should  therefore be passed  to the 
FSCS. I may dismiss a complaint if the business has been  declared in default by the FSCS 
meaning the FSCS is satisfied the business is unable to meet  its liabilities. FSG has not yet 
been declared in default  so I consider it appropriate  to issue my decision.
The complaint is about a number of activities over a period of about six years. The evidence 
shows FSG was advising  on investments; arranging investments and making arrangements  
with a view to transaction in investments. I remain satisfied  that the client agreements 
involved regulated  activities for the reasons given in my provisional decision  and repeated 
earlier in this, my final decision.
FSG charged a number of ad hoc fees.  I set out the detail of these fees in my provisional  
decision. I explained why some of those related to activities we can consider and some 
related to activities we cannot consider, in my provisional decision. I have again  explained  
my reasoning later in this final decision.
Holistic financial  planning
Mrs J signed a number  of client agreements in which  she agreed to pay for FSGs holistic 
financial planning service.  I explained in my provisional decision it wasnt  clear what benefit 
Mrs J could expect from the holistic planning  service. Mrs J started paying £259  a month in 
April 2009. This increased over time until she was paying £687 a month.
In my view, the monthly payments to FSG were  significant. I would expect to see evidence of 
some benefit  for Mrs J. As I said in my provisional  decision, I could not see any tangible  
benefit. The agreements  involved  financial education and allowing the process  to become 
stress free. These objectives  have not been  met and I am satisfied from the evidence  
provided the whole experience has been  very stressful for Mrs J.
Ref: DRN104804820FSG said I do not have the knowledge and experience to deal with this complaint. The 
response has been critical of the approach I have taken. However, I have reviewed all of the 
evidence provided  by both FSG and Mrs J. FSG has not provided any new evidence for me 
to consider. I set out the reasons why I thought  the holistic  financial planning  service  was 
unnecessary for Mrs J in my provisional decision. I have not been persuaded by anything  
FSG said in response to my provisional  decision to change my mind. Mrs J paid hundreds of 
pounds every month from April 2009 until May 2015. 
FSG was paid a substantial amount of money by Mrs J. I would have expected to see some  
evidence to show how paying for the service was of any benefit to her. Although  I have seen 
evidence of hours spent  on various  things, I cannot  see this provided any value. And the 
example about  Mrs J being required  to write  her own suitability report  for the drawdown plan 
shows how unusual and bizarre the activity was. I have not seen any other investor being 
asked to write a suitability  report.  It is not required by the regulations. In fact, it is the adviser 
who is required to write the report.  I remain satisfied the fees for holistic financial planning 
were unnecessary.
FSG said the payments  of £200 a month for the fifth client agreement were  not paid. I have 
not found evidence of the payments being made and accept no payments were made as a 
result of the client agreement. This appears to be the only agreement  where  no additional 
fees were paid.
Advice to start  a platform with Transact  but the funds to be left in cash
I explained why I did not accept Mrs J asked for a digital dashboard in my provisional  
decision. FSG has not presented any new evidence for me to consider about  this issue.  I 
remain of the view that the letter  signed by Mrs J used technical language and is written  in 
the style used by FSG. I am not persuaded Mrs J insisted on acting against any advice not 
to start the platform. I think FSG caused  the platform to be arranged.
FSG said only £21,000 was invested  after the sale of Mrs Js business. Statements  issued 
by Transact show  £210,000  being received. I am satisfied from this evidence £210,000 was 
placed with Transact.
Advice to start  platform with Elevate
FSG has not provided any new evidence or made  any new arguments about the platform 
with Elevate. I think the switch to Elevate incurred unnecessary charges. The platform with 
Elevate should  not have been started.
Delays in arranging pension drawdown
I remain satisfied that FSG took too long to arrange to put Mrs Js pensions into payment for 
the reasons given in my provisional decision.  
Ad hoc fees
Mrs J provided  more  evidence about fees she has paid to FSG. This was partly  because 
some of the fees were paid by one of her companies. Some of the evidence  had been  sent 
to me before.  I have reconsidered  all of the evidence.
Ref: DRN104804821I explained that I intended to refund some of the fees paid by Mrs J and her companies, but 
other fees would not be refunded. I set out a summary of these fees in an appendix.  Having 
reconsidered all of the available evidence my decision is that those fees I said should be 
refunded are to be refunded for the reasons given in my provisional  decision.
Mrs J provided  additional  evidence about  fees paid to FSG or the adviser. I have considered  
the evidence and explained what I think about those payments below.
A number  of the payments  were made  in 2008. Mrs J first became a client of FSG in 
April 2009. The FCAs register shows FSG as being  regulated with the FSA from 
30 September 2008. The payments appear to have been made  to the adviser before FSG 
was regulated on 30 September 2008.  As they were not paid to FSG I cannot make an 
award for FSG to refund those payments.
Mrs J has provided  a record  of a payment of £720  in December 2008. FSG provided an 
invoice for this sum as taxation  advice.  Mrs Js notes refer to this as tax planning. Mrs J says 
this shows FSG was preparing her for financial planning before she signed the agreement in 
April 2009. I have carefully considered this point, but I cannot say the fee was paid related to 
an activity that was regulated. Taxation advice is not regulated and I cannot see that there is 
any other activity this relates  to. Mrs J had not signed  the client agreement when the fee was 
paid and so I cannot rely on the client agreements she later signed. I am not satisfied the 
payment is one I can consider.
Mrs J referred  to another payment  dated  24 March 2008 for £417.50. This was described by 
FSG on a statement of fees paid as legacy  planning and exit strategies for one of Mrs Js 
businesses. Mrs J says her notes refer to the pensions audit and FSG will try to minimise the 
expenses. However,  it isnt clear to me what the notes refer to. As FSG provided evidence 
the payment related to Mrs Js business, I cannot  make an award as I am not satisfied the 
payment was for a regulated activity.
A payment for £528.75 has been annotated by Mrs J as 3 x pension audits on her bank 
statement. Her notes  indicate  FSG carried out three  pension audits for £450 + VAT.  Another 
page of her notes  indicates this was for 1) analysis paid for 2) file check  £100  + VAT x 3  
Aviva /Clerical £250 + VAT for AXA?  3) submission to pension specialists for transfer.
I have reviewed these notes and with Mrs Js explanation for the notes, I can see where the 
£528.75 could  have been for the pension audits, as Mrs J says they were. However, it was 
not as clear to me how the amounts  were  to be calculated as in the other examples where I 
have been satisfied the payment was for a regulated activity.  It appears the payment could 
have been three x £100, plus £250 plus VAT. There is some doubt  in my mind about what 
the payment was for. I am not satisfied  the evidence is sufficient for me to conclude it was 
for pensions  audits. I am not making an award  for the payment to be refunded.
Mrs J provided  additional  evidence for a payment of £575 made on 17 September  2012.  Her 
notes indicate  this was for checking plans/platfs . FSG said the payment was a mortgage 
arrangement fee. However, Mrs J says this is unlikely as she paid £3,700 to FSG for a re-
mortgage in April 2012. 
Ref: DRN104804822In my view, the evidence  on this point is not clear. The note Mrs J has now provided 
indicates the payment could be for reviewing plans and platforms. However, I do not think 
the note is clear on this point. FSG provided evidence the payment was for a re-mortgage. 
Whilst I accept  Mrs Js point a payment  had already  been made for the mortgage 
arrangements, it is possible another payment could have been made as well. Although the 
payment was made when Mrs J was in ill health,  I am not persuaded it is a payment FSG 
should refund.
Mrs J referred  to her notes showing she paid £50 a month and her notes  refer to a bespoke  
portfolio service. I think this is one of the regular  payments to FSG I have  already  said 
should be refunded.
Mrs J has also provided a copy  of her notes about  a Trust for which she was charged £692 
and £180 for a letter of wishes. She says this shows it was for the pension  plans. However,  
the notes also have BT Lets in brackets. Whilst this is about a Trust, it is not clear what  this 
trust related to. It could have been  the pensions, but other  assets can be placed in trust. The 
reference to buy to let indicates this could be Mrs Js properties. I am not persuaded the 
payment was for an activity I can tell FSG to refund  the fee.
Mrs J also referred  to a payment of £2,067.75 in March 2013. She says this was for the 
transfer of a pension drawdown plan. A calculation of 4.5% of £45,950 was mentioned. This 
was the amount left in the AXA EPP after taking  the tax-free cash  and results in the 
£2,067.75 paid to FSG. FSG produced an invoice describing the amount as being 
commercial mortgage advice and future planning for a property. I had not previously seen 
details of the reason for this payment.
In my view, the calculation that the fee of £2,067.75 is 4.5% of £45,950 is persuasive. It is an 
exact figure and is supported by Mrs Js contemporaneous notes.  I am satisfied this fee was 
for a regulated activity. This fee should  be refunded.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs J in the position she would now be in if she had received suitable  
advice. That is not easy because there  is not much evidence to show  what that advice 
should have been.
There are many activities covered under the financial  planning  agreement  Mrs J entered  into 
with FSG. In my view, she did not need that service. The regular  payments  for this service 
should all be refunded.
Mrs J paid many ad hoc fees for different activities. I have explained in detail above  what I 
think those fees were for. The payments  I have listed  in the attached  appendix as being 
related to regulated activities should be refunded.
If Mrs J had not been paying the fees to FSG her need for income would have been 
significantly lower. I remain of the view that she would not have needed to take her pension  
benefits if she had not been  paying those fees.  However, she still had an outstanding 
mortgage and the investments with Transact and Elevate. Some  of the funds with Transact 
and Elevate have  been used to repay the mortgage.
Ref: DRN104804823I cannot say with any certainty what Mrs J would  have done, if she had been given suitable 
advice. I think Mrs J would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  what  
she would  have done. But I am satisfied  that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mrs Js circumstances and objectives when  she invested.
what should  FSG do?
To compensate Mrs J fairly, FSG must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Js investment with Elevate with that of the 
benchmark shown  below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater  than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
The funds placed on the Transact  platform should have been  used to meet  living 
expenses including  repayment of the mortgage.  Any fees charged for the Transact 
platform should be refunded to Mrs J. This should have  the effect of providing a 
return equivalent to the interest earned  whilst the money was with Transact.
FSG should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable  on any 
interest awarded.
Pay Mrs J £2,000  for the severe  distress and inconvenience caused by FSG. She has 
spent a lot of time dealing with FSG. There has been minimal action. This has been 
very stressful for her. The unprofessional conduct  of FSG has aggravated that 
distress.
Repay the fees Mrs J paid to FSG that are listed in the sections payments that are 
related to regulated activities and payments that were  for the regular financial 
planning fees. Simple interest should be added at a rate of 8% a year, from the date 
each fee was paid to the date of payment.  
Mrs J paid overdraft fees. These  should be paid by FSG. Interest should be added to 
those fees at the rate charged by the lender.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
return
Elevate  
PlatformsurrenderedFTSE WMA 
Stock Market 
Income Total 
Return Index1 May 2009 1 June 2016Any loss 
should be 
revalued  
using the 
benchmark to 
the date of 
my decision
Simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross  a year from date of my 
decision to date of payment.
Ref: DRN104804824for each investment:
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mrs J paid into the investment should be added to the fair value  
calculation at the point it was actually  paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out 
of the investment should be deducted  from the fair value  calculation at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
FSG totals all those  payments and deducts that figure at the end instead  of deducting 
periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mrs J wanted income  with some growth and was willing to accept some investment 
risk.
The WMA  index is made  up of diversified indices representing different asset classes, 
mainly UK equities and government  bonds.  It would be a fair measure for someone  
who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs Js circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Financial Services Gateway Ltd must now pay compensation to 
Mrs J as set out in this decision. Simple interest  is to be added  to my award  at a rate of 8% 
gross a year from the date of this decision to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 October  2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN104804825Payments that are related  to regulated  activities and should be refunded 
Date Amount Description To be refunded
04/04/2009 100 Yes
27/04/2009 150 Yes
01/12/2009 2550 Cheque annotated as Pensions Analysis Yes 
13/12/2010 1770 Attribution Analysis Yes
22/12/2010 2306 Pension Analysis Yes
23/05/2011 1205 Drawdown extra charges Yes
07/12/2011 1177 Asset protection trust Yes
01/06/2011 255 Fees for Morningstar Yes
05/01/2011 207 Video preparation and rendering Yes
20/06/2012 150 Pension analysis Yes
01/08/2012 1005 Estate Planning Yes
26/11/2012 5000 Pensions Transfers Yes
30/01/2013 250 Investment Advice Yes
26/02/2013 1050Pension Analysis  & Portfolio  
Optim/Integration Composite Yes
15/03/2013 2067.75 Drawdown Yes
13/01/2014 1050 Drawdown Administration Fee Yes
16/04/2015 1450 Drawdown Fee - Subtotal  of £2500 Yes
29/04/2015 475 Actuarial Advice for Drawdown Yes
Payments  that  were  for the regular financial planning fees. 
Date Amount Description To be refunded
22/05/2009 240 Bill Payment   regular FP paymentAs part of the 
regular payments
22/05/2009 158 Bill Payment   regular FP paymentAs part of the 
regular payments
22/05/2009 120 Bill Payment   regular FP paymentAs part of the 
regular payments
11/03/2014 420 Sales InvoiceAs part of the 
regular payments
27/04/2014 420 Sales InvoiceAs part of the 
regular payments
Ref: DRN104804826 Payments that were  for the unregulated activities.  
31/03/2010 50 Cheque annotated No
28/07/2010 528.75 Pension Audits x 3 No
24/05/2011 200 Attribution Analysis No
04/04/2012 675 Tax Planning No
23/04/2012 2278.48 Business Planning No
20/06/2012 268 G Ltd tax update No
01/08/2012 240 Initial Capital  raising feasibility  work No
17/09/2012 575 Transfer to "FSG" no annotations No
26/02/2013 872 Trust- BTL Analysis  and letter of wishes No
08/07/2013 117 G Ltd tax update No
29/11/2013 405 BTL Mortgage No
11/03/2014 25 Bespoke Modelling No
05/04/2014 129 Set Up of bookkeeping tool No
05/04/2014 80 Set Up of bookkeeping tool for G No
30/04/2014 12 Bookkeeping for G No
30/04/2014 12 Bookkeeping for G No
10/06/2014 12 Bookkeeping for G No
10/06/1014 50 For G - Unsure of reason No
         17/09/2014 65Bookkeeping upgrade from Arithmo to 
QB - BTL No
Ref: DRN1048048