K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about their home  insurer U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) in 
respect of how it handled their claim made  following a water leak.
background
Mr and Mrs H were away from home in March 2018  when  a pipe in the home burst.  UKI 
accepted a claim they made and began  looking  at what was necessary for repair.  There  was 
a delay in checking for asbestos,  the test was negative and driers were  installed in 
May 2018. A dispute  arose though over what had been stripped out to allow for drying. 
Mr and Mrs H said not all the work recommended had been completed and one room  had 
been stripped  which  shouldnt  have  been.  Contents  items had been left in the damp house.
UKI accepted that the strip-out work hadnt been  carried out as per the recommended  
specifications. But it concluded  the home was dry and it would include reinstatement  of the 
erroneously stripped room into the repair schedule. 
Mr and Mrs H complained. In September 2018 UKI said it accepted  the service it had 
provided during  the claim had been poor,  with poor communication as well, all of which had 
resulted in delays.  It noted Mr and Mrs H had accepted the settlement for repairs and that it 
was currently considering the settlement  for the contents. It said it would pay a further  £400  
compensation for the upset it had caused (in addition  to the £100 it had paid already in 
spring 2018).
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy  and complained  to us. They said nothing less than £8,000 
compensation would resolve  their concerns. They said it wasnt just about delays but the 
errors that had been made  that had caused  those delays. There  was extra work necessary 
and their contents clam had been affected too. They also said UKI had only paid them  for 
11 days disturbance  allowance whilst they stayed in a hotel,  when theyd actually been in the 
hotel for a number of weeks.
Our investigator felt that £500 compensation  was fair and reasonable. He noted that 
Mr and Mrs H hadnt complained to UKI about the disturbance allowance and said UKI 
should clarify its position on this to them but hed say no more about  it as part of this 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy. They said discovering UKI had caused  damage to their 
home and contents  was as upsetting as discovering the initial  incident. They didnt think  
£500 compensation was sufficient. The complaint was passed to me for a decision to be 
made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and with regret for any 
disappointment this causes Mr and Mrs H, Im not minded to award them any more  
compensation.
Im not going  to comment on the disturbance allowance  it wasnt part of the original 
complaint and whilst our investigator  said UKI should clarify its position in this respect, UKI 
Ref: DRN16853812needs to do that as part of its usual complaint procedure  anyway.  None of that impacts  this 
decision about poor work, delays and the resultant  upset that was caused.
I think this claim  was handled badly by UKI. It seems to have accepted that work  wasnt 
done as planned, and whilst it has resolved that by covering the cost of rectification work, 
that doesnt change the upset that was caused  by its mismanagement. Similarly for the 
contents issue  at the point UKI issued  its final response it was still considering settlement 
for contents.  I trust that has now been  determined and that all items it allowed to become 
damaged beyond repair have reasonably been  included within  that. But the upset still needs 
accounting for. 
Im aware also that the asbestos testing  wasnt handled well and that some areas werent  
tested which  later proved  positive for asbestos. Whilst Mr and Mrs H werent living in the 
property, I accept that this episode was frustrating, upsetting and worrying for them.  
There was also poor communication which occurred. This, along with mismanagement  of the 
work, went together to cause delays. All of which caused upset and frustration for 
Mr and Mrs H.
That being  said I note that UKI has accepted  it failed Mr and Mrs H during this claim and 
that, as a result of those failures,  they were caused distress and inconvenience.  UKI has 
paid a total of £500  to account for that. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H think  that is 
insufficient; that they feel that £8,000 is due but that type of award isnt something I would 
make in circumstances  like this. Most  awards I make for distress  and inconvenience dont 
reach four figures, and those that do usually involve failures  by insurers that result in much 
more disruption for their policyholder  such as being left to reside in an uninhabitable  home 
for a long period. Having considered everything, I think £500 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against U K Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1685381