K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain about the service theyve  received from TSB Bank plc. 
background
Mr G contacted TSB in May 2018. Hed written to the bank on five occasions between  
August 2017 and April 2018. But he hadnt received a response  to any of his letters.  He was 
worried about the safety of his accounts  after TSB had experienced some problems with its 
banking system.
He was also concerned about the charges his wife might incur if she ordered and then 
returned goods while abroad. And he wanted to know what fees he might be charged  if he 
moved money from his account. He felt TSB offered lower rates than advertised when he 
paid for some services  overseas. So Mr G would like a written  response from TSB. And hed 
like the bank to address  the issues hes raised.
TSB said it hadnt received Mr Gs letters. But the overseas fees had been applied  in line 
with its normal banking  charges. If Mr G and Mrs G used its services  overseas it wouldnt be 
the same  as if they were in the UK. Different  charges would  apply. 
Mr G and Mrs G werent satisfied with TSBs  response. So they contacted our service and 
our adjudicator looked into the matter. He didnt doubt Mr G had sent the letters. But there 
was no record of TSB receiving them. And he felt it was unlikely the bank wouldnt have 
responded if the letters had been  received. After talking to TSB our adjudicator  was able to 
provide answers  to some of the questions Mr G had raised. But he didnt think there  was 
anything else TSB needed to do.
Mr G didnt agree. His brother had delivered  the letters by hand.  It was inconceivable TSB 
hadnt received  at least one of his letters. His brother lived near a branch and had taken 
them in person. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr G contacted  TSB a number  of times with various  concerns. He was worried  
about the safety of his account  after he was asked for security  information when he made a 
purchase over the telephone. As Mr G has pointed out, TSB has experienced some 
difficulties with its banking  system.  And he asked TSB for information  about overseas 
charges and exchange rates. 
Mr G and Mrs G currently  live overseas. And it seems TSB didnt receive their letters. 
Although I can see Mr Gs brother confirmed to our investigator that he delivered them to his 
local branch. So I think its likely  TSB shouldve received  Mr Gs correspondence. 
I can see Mr G raised a number of other questions about using his account overseas. And 
our adjudicator has passed  on responses  from the bank. And Mr G has also been  passed a 
copy of TSBs charges  from its website. TSB said it didnt  receive  all of Mr Gs letters. But it 
has received a number  of other complaints and questions which its dealt with. 
Ref: DRN17950042I think its unlikely all of the hand-delivered letters to the bank went astray.  And although TSB 
said it answered many of Mr Gs questions I do think TSBs  response couldve been better 
on some  occasions. And its difficult to know why Mr Gs letters didnt make it to the 
appropriate departments for action. 
Having looked  at everything Mr G and TSB have said I deliberated whether TSBs service to 
Mr G had been of the expected standard. And I thought TSBs response  hadnt always been  
of the level Im sure they aspire to. So I considered whether the bank  should  pay Mr G £100 
compensation for his time and inconvenience and whether TSB should respond  directly to 
Mr Gs letters.
Mr G and Mrs G said that was acceptable  as they wanted to put things behind them. But 
TSB didnt  feel the compensation  was appropriate.  The bank said it hadnt  received all of the 
letters. And itd answered those it had received. Mr G had asked a lot of questions  which  he 
couldve found the answers to on the banks website  or elsewhere.
I do accept there is a limit to how much service I would expect TSB to provide Mr G and 
Mrs G. As they live abroad Mr G contacts the bank by letter when he has a query. But TSB 
also provides a lot of information about its services and charges  on the internet so that 
customers can quickly find answers. And Mr G wouldnt have to set up internet banking  to 
look at TSBs website. I can see TSB has also provided the address for its banking  services 
team if Mr G wants  to ask any further  questions.
Having considered the responses from both parties I still feel TSB couldve done more to 
help Mr G and respond  to his queries. A number of letters  went unanswered. And other  
questions were answered through our adjudicator when he was looking into the complaint.
Based on everything  Ive seen I think Mr G and Mrs G have now received answers to their 
original questions. But I still feel TSB should pay Mr G and Mrs G £100 compensation for 
their time and inconvenience.  
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc should  pay Mr G and Mrs G £100  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1795004