K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) allowed another family member to 
withdraw money from her account.
background
The background to this complaint is linked to another complaint and the facts to it are well 
known to the parties. In summary Miss L attended a BoS branch to withdraw  £920  from an 
account. She says she was told that her sister had attended the branch the day before and 
had withdrawn the money. Miss L says her mother gave her the £920 whilst BoS carried  out 
its investigation.
BoS accepts it made a number of mistakes and has provided Miss L with an explanation and 
has apologised for what took place. Its offered her £400 compensation.
Miss L brought  her complaint to us and our investigator looked into this complaint as well as 
the related complaint. The investigator  thought  the compensation offer was fair and 
reasonable and that she couldnt  fairly order that BoS compensate  Miss Ls mother  as she 
wasnt a complainant here. The investigator didnt think BoS should pay for any lost interest.
Miss L has asked that an ombudsman review the investigators view. She accepts the 
compensation offer may be fair and reasonable but would like the issue  of the £920  looked 
at. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator.
There is no question here that BoS made  mistakes  that are well known to the parties. But Im 
satisfied that BoS has apologised for what took place and provided an explanation.
The key question here is the issue of compensation BoS should  fairly and reasonably  pay 
Miss L. And Ive come to the overall  view that BoSs offer of £400 is both fair and 
reasonable. I say that as Im satisfied Miss L hasnt  suffered a financial loss as I can see that 
the family  accept that the money be will correctly  returned to the correct person. So for that 
reason I cant fairly order that BoS pay Miss Ls mother the £920, and in any event shes not 
the complainant  here. 
I appreciate that there could have been far greater consequences here but I have to 
consider what did take place.  And for the reasons Ive explained I think  overall the 
compensation offer fairly reflects  the level of BoSs mistake and the actual impact  it had. I 
cant fairly order BoS to pay any interest as I cant be sure any interest was lost as a result  of 
what took place.
Ref: DRN16871072my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation of £400. Miss Ls acceptance  of that offer would be in full and final settlement 
of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1687107