K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc applied unfair charges at the end of her hire 
agreement. She also complains that Hitachi has used bullying tactics  in order  to try to 
recover these costs.  She wants the charges  to be waived  and all collection activity to cease.
background
Ms A tells us she acquired the vehicle through a hire agreement  and returned it at the end of 
the agreement, in December 2018. She said the vehicle was inspected  but she felt the 
vehicle examiners had painstakingly looked  over the vehicle trying  to find anything that 
could be justified as damage. She said she refused to sign the inspection report  as she felt 
the vehicle had been returned in above  average condition.
Ms A says shes since  been  phoned  by Hitachi agents and has received numerous 
misleading letters. She feels this amounts to bullying  tactics  and says its affected her 
health.
Hitachi told us it had arranged for the vehicle to be inspected by an independent  examiner, a 
company Ill refer to as M. It said M had carried out its inspection and used guidelines 
regarding the assessment  of damage issued  by the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing  
Association (BVRLA). It said that damage above  fair wear and tear had been  identified - and 
this had amounted  to £630.47. But having received a complaint from Ms A it had reviewed 
this and had reduced the figure  to £270.47. It said the damage related to a cut to a tyre and 
scuff marks to two alloy wheels.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said he considered 
the charges for damage fell within BVRLA guidelines and were fairly applied. He didnt think  
the information hed seen  suggested Hitachi had sent misleading information or that it used 
bullying tactics.
Ms A didnt agree with this outcome  and expressed shock  that the vehicle was considered to 
be damaged beyond fair wear and tear. She wanted  a final decision to be made by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Ms A has experienced the upset  of being charged for damage to the vehicle 
which she clearly doesnt feel is justified. And I accept  she feels  very strongly about this 
issue.
The hire agreement which Ms A entered contained various terms and conditions. I think  the 
most relevant term in relation to this complaint is contained in the section headed:
3. YOUR OBLIGATIONS CONCERNING THE VEHICLE
3.1.2 To keep the vehicle in good condition and repair. You will be responsible to us for any 
damage caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and tear 
as indicated in the guidelines  issued from time to time by the BVRLA.
Ref: DRN12722332Ive seen the photographs  of the vehicle which were  taken at the time of the inspection  and I 
consider they are of good quality and show the affected areas on the vehicle. Without 
guidelines, it would obviously be a matter of subjective opinion whether any particular item of 
damage was above fair wear and tear. And vehicles are likely to experience different levels  
of wear and tear dependent  upon the circumstances in which  they have been used. The fact 
that this vehicle was apparently primarily used in an urban area may well account for the 
level of damage.  But that doesnt alter the fact that the damage was incurred.  
BVRLA guidelines are meant to ensure that a consistent standard is applied when it comes 
to the assessment of damage which might  be considered above fair wear  and tear. And this 
is irrespective of where the vehicle has been  used. In my opinion,  the photographs clearly 
show that the damage which  the vehicle suffered was outside BVRLA fair wear and tear 
guidelines. In those circumstances I think Hitachi is entitled to apply  the charges.
Ive seen Ms As comments that - despite  the damage - she estimates the vehicle still has a 
residual value of £8,000  which she feels shows Hitachi  has made a healthy profit  from the 
finance agreement. But that doesnt  affect my decision as Im only looking at whether the 
charges imposed were fairly applied in accordance with the terms and conditions  of the 
agreement.
But I also note that a number of other items of damage were recorded by the vehicle 
inspector but that Hitachi has waived these. So I think that shows it has fairly taken Ms As 
views into consideration.  I consider the level of charges  applied  is fair and reasonable and is 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement.
As Hitachi reasonably  believed it was entitled  to recover these charges its able to take 
reasonable steps to recover them. I understand it isnt pleasant  to receive phone calls and 
letters in relation to a disputed debt. And Im sorry that Ms A has experienced the upset and 
worry that this has caused. But Ive seen  the various letters and I dont  think they were 
misleading or aggressive. I dont think Hitachi has tried to bully Ms A - although I 
understand she may feel she is at a disadvantage  as a private individual  complaining  about 
a large business.  
Im aware my decision  will come as disappointment to Ms A but I dont think  Hitachi has 
acted unfairly here, and so I shant be upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1272233