K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Santander UK Plc wrongly advised her to invest  too much  of her 
money, at too great a level of risk and too soon after major life-changing events.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 4 October 2019.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Santander accepted my provisional decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons previously  explained, I 
am satisfied  this complaint should be upheld  and with the compensation outlined.
I instruct Santander to pay compensation by comparing the amount Mrs H received on 
surrender of these  two investments with what she might  have got if investing the same sums  
(£25,000 in total) in low risk products.
To do this it should use the standard low risk formula  recommended  by this service. 
That is, an equal combination of the returns as shown by the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  and the monthly  average rate for fixed-rate bonds 
with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England.  
If this comparison shows a loss it must  pay this figure and add 8% simple interest per 
annum from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Santander UK Plc to pay compensation outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN15807462provisional decision
complaint
Mrs H complains that Santander UK Plc wrongly  advised  her to invest too much of her money, at too 
great a level of risk and too soon after major life-changing events.
background
In 2000 Santander recommended that Mrs H invest £25,000, split between two broadly medium risk, 
equity-based funds. She surrendered these six years later with a modest loss.
In 2018 she complained,  via a Claims  Management Company (CMC), saying:
She had not sought investment advice, having never had investments previously, but was 
approached by a branch advisor to make  these  investments
This money had come from the sale of her marital home following a recent divorce
Given this, and a variety  of other very stressful personal events, she should  not have been 
advised to make any quick or major financial decisions
The advice also exposed too much of her money to too great a risk; while  she was prepared 
to take a small risk her money  (and accept the possibility of some fall) both of the 
recommended products  posed a greater risk to her money than she would have wanted (or 
should have been advised) to take
Santander rejected her complaint. Given the passage of time it did not have copies of key documents 
such as a Fact Find or Suitability Letter but said it was satisfied she would have been provided with all 
the necessary paperwork and given an appropriate cooling-off period. It didnt believe there was 
evidence to indicate the advice had been unsuitable.
An investigator at this service broadly agreed with its arguments.
Mrs Hs representative did not agree, and elaborated on its initial  concerns.
Having received  this complaint file, I asked Mrs H for more information about her circumstances at the 
time including  how much  money  she had received  as an inheritance, where she was living, her 
retirement plans etc.
She said she didnt have an entirely clear recollection  of all these issues.  She thought  shed inherited 
about £70,000  and had around £50,000 left after giving various sums to family members. She 
reiterated that every time she went into her local branch she was encouraged  to move her money into 
investments. She didnt recall whether her money was in a current  or deposit account  but it was a 
run-of-the-mill one. She bought a new home and had took out a mortgage (its not clear  if this was 
before or after the investment advice).
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
It is entirely understandable that Santander has not retained more  paperwork about this 
recommendation and sale given it is more than a decade since  Mrs H surrendered  the investments. 
However, I am still satisfied  that there is sufficient, persuasive evidence to conclude  on the balance  
of probabilities   that this was not suitable or good advice  given Mrs Hs overall  circumstances and 
likely objectives.
Firstly, to address a number of Santanders arguments, I have  no reason to doubt  that it would have 
provided Mrs H with all the relevant paperwork  and a cooling-off letter. This does not, however, 
Ref: DRN15807463impact on the key consideration of whether  this was suitable  advice. Mrs H, particularly  as a first-time 
investor, would have  been  entirely reliant  on the advisor  to fully assess her circumstances, needs and 
objectives and make appropriate recommendations  based on his/her  expertise. She, by comparison, 
was entitled to rely on his/her  judgment and recommendations.
So the fact that she almost  certainly received  key documentation  does not change  the key issue: was 
this good/suitable advice?  Mrs H says she did not seek advice but was recommended to talk to an 
advisor in her local branch. I have no reason to doubt her recollection about this and make no 
criticism of this approach.  Where a customer  has a large  sum on deposit it is not unreasonable for a 
bank to suggest  s/he considers whether they would  like to invest  some of it.
However, the recommended investments posed a substantial  risk to Mrs Hs money. While this 
service does not risk rate specific  funds there is no dispute that these  products  meant Mrs Hs money 
had the potential fall very significantly in value depending  on the performance of markets  here and 
abroad. They  were clearly not low or cautious  risk propositions.
Yet everything  I have read about Mrs Hs background, circumstances and likely future  financial needs 
indicates that she should  not have been advised to take more than a small or modest  risk with any of 
her money,  at most. This was a one-off,  irreplaceable lump sum and was likely to be important to her 
future finances, particularly post-retirement.  From what Ive read, Mrs H was likely to have  been 
earning only a modest income and was very unlikely to be able to replace any significant  losses.  For 
all these reasons, I think it was unnecessary and inappropriate to recommend she take such  a 
significant risk with such a large amount of her money.
It is impossible  to safely say, given the absence of key paperwork, what the advisor said about  these 
products and whether  s/he proposed any alternatives. But if s/he had spelt  out the significant  risk 
posed by these  recommendations and the fact that Mrs H could  take far less risk via more cautious 
investments, I believe  it is more likely than not that she would have chosen a less risky option.
I am not entirely satisfied  that it was good advice  to expose all this sum to any risk at all; it may have 
been more appropriate  to keep some of it risk-free (and/or reduce  any mortgage). But as Mrs H, via 
her representative,  said she was prepared  to take a small  risk with all this money  I am satisfied that 
my proposed compensation is fair and reasonable.
I currently intend to instruct Santander to pay compensation by comparing the amount Mrs H received 
on surrender of these two investments with what she might have got if investing  the same sums 
(£25,000 in total)  in low risk products.
To do this it should use the standard low risk formula recommended by this service. That is, an equal  
combination of the returns as shown by the FTSE  WMA  Stock Market Income Total  Return Index and 
the monthly average rate for fixed-rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank 
of England.  If this comparison shows a loss it must pay this figure and add 8% simple interest per 
annum from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Santander UK Plc to pay compensation  as 
outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1580746