K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr R bought  the policy in 1997 at the same  time as taking  out a store  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint  and Ive set out my reasons below:
The store card application form Mr R signed was completed  to show  that he wanted   
the PPI. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that buying the PPI was a condition of 
getting the store card. So I think Mr R wouldve realised he had a choice about 
whether or not to take the PPI. From what Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to say that FICL didnt make Mr R aware that the policy  was 
optional.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. That means  it didnt have to ask about  any other means that Mr R had to cover  
his repayments.
But even if FICL had recommended  the policy to Mr R, it doesnt look as though it 
was unsuitable  for him, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Mr R says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because 
of sickness or accident. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition  to his employer 
benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having  the policy in place would 
mean Mr R could use his employer benefits  to cover other expenses.  So I think  the 
policy wouldve been useful to Mr R. 
Its possible  the information FICL  gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mr R would have  been  affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit.  So I 
dont think better  information  wouldve stopped him buying  it. 
Ref: DRN16981742my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1698174