K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  the amount The National Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance 
Society Limited (NFUM) has paid in settlement of his claim for water  damage under his 
home insurance policy. 
When I refer to NFUM  this includes  any contractors  or firms  they appointed to handle or 
process any stage of Mr Ls claim, unless otherwise stated.  
background
Mr L returned home to find there was a water  leak in his property. After a number of 
tradesmen were involved  the leak was repaired.  Mr L instructed a loss assessor, who 
contacted NFUM regarding the water damage to Mr Ls home. NFUM inspected the property 
and carried out a detailed investigation.  The investigation included interviewing  the 
tradesmen and compiling an investigation  report. 
NFUM concluded the damage to part of upstairs  of Mr Ls home  was consistent with the sort 
of leak hed described. However,  they didnt agree all the damage  hed claimed for was 
consistent with the leak.  NFUM eventually made an offer of £5,150 for what  it thought was 
the cost of repairing the damage caused  by the leak Mr L had described, less the policy  
excess. Mr Ls loss assessor accepted this on his behalf.
Mr L maintained all the damage  had been caused by the leak as hed described, and he said 
he thought the offer was an interim payment and had accepted it on this basis.  NFUM 
explained the offer had already been  accepted and was in full and final settlement. And it 
refused to pay any more  or consider Mr Ls claim further. 
Mr L then complained to us. One of our investigators looked into the matter.  She explained 
she was satisfied NFUMs offer was reasonable in the circumstances. As Mr L is not happy 
with this outcome,  the case has been referred  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls policy covers  the escape of water from his tank. And states NFUM will settle the claim 
by paying the cost of repairing the damage to his home caused by the leak.  
As part of the investigation, Mr L informed NFUM that the leak was so severe that the water 
was coming down the stairs; dripping from the ceiling downstairs; and was present on the 
floor of the kitchen, situated on the ground floor. He explained in detail that a number of 
tradesmen attended the property, and the leak was stopped. I have reviewed Mr Ls 
statement and the summaries of the telephone  interviews between NFUM and the 
tradesmen who involved. There are significant discrepancies present and it is noted that 
none of the tradesmen  were willing to sign a formal  statement. I think  it would be unfair to 
have expected NFUM  to rely on such conflicting information in order to settle  this claim. 
Mr L has provided statements confirming  his stance that his claim is genuine and refuting 
any allegation or suggestion  that any aspect of his claim is false. It is not disputed by either 
party that there was some  sort of water leak. However, NFUM  think the leak was minor and 
couldnt have  caused all the damage  Mr L has suggested. Theyve explained  this is because 
Ref: DRN19685182some of the stains present dont seem  to have been  caused by a leak and were an unusual 
colour. Theyve also explained  that their investigations showed the water stains appeared on 
the ground floor with no evidence to suggest water had reached  floor level on the first floor,  
which is what they would have expected in these set of circumstances.  
Mr Ls loss assessor has explained  this by stating the walls and structure of the building 
soaked up much of the water before it could reach ground floor level. If this is taken  to be 
correct, it does not support Mr Ls account,  that the water was present  on the floors 
(including downstairs)  and coming down  the stairs. NFUM have also explained  that the loss 
assessors report does not explain how stains appeared at ceiling level on the ground floor if 
it hadnt reached floor level on the first floor.
I find NFUMs  report following  what looks like a thorough investigation persuasive and I dont 
think Mr L and his loss assessor have  really been  able to explain how all the damage he has 
claimed for could have  occurred. And I think  this leaves a number of unanswered questions 
around the extent  of water damage claimed  for and whether Mr L exaggerated his claim.  
And  in view of this  I think NFUMs  offer to pay the cost of repairing the damage  they think 
was caused by the leak Mr L described  is reasonable.  And I dont think it would  produce  a 
fair and reasonable outcome if I made  them pay more than this or consider Mr Ls claim 
further. 
In view of what Ive said, I dont think I need to consider  whether Mr Ls loss assessor 
accepted NFUMs offer in full and final settlement, as I dont think NFUM  needs  to pay more 
than this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I do not uphold  Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Chantelle Sayles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1968518