K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that they were mis-sold a Royalties Gold  Account by The Royal  
Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a joint fee free account with RBS sometime  before 1990.
They upgraded to a joint Royalties Gold Account  (RGA) in March  2000.
Mr and Mrs R then migrated onto a joint Select  Platinum account  in July 2015.
They finally downgraded to a joint fee free account in March  2017.
Mr and Mrs R say that RBS mis-sold  the RGA to them in March 2000.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagree  with that 
outcome so the case has come to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Mr and Mrs R say they only upgraded  to the joint RGA in March 2000  because Mrs R was put 
under time pressure  in a meeting in a branch.  They say they were  told their existing free 
account was out of date and that the RGA was the best way to get an overdraft.
Mr and Mrs R are clear  that they knew theyd  taken out the RGA, and that they were paying a 
fee for it. They say they did use some of the benefits  of the account  they held over the years. 
But they say they would  never have taken out the RGA in the first place but for the pressure 
put on Mrs R and they used very little of the benefits  they were paying  for. They  also say that 
they were experiencing very difficult  life circumstances at the time of the sale.
So I will consider first if Mr and Mrs R knew they had a choice whether to take out the RGA  or 
not and whether they chose to do so.
In my view I think they did. I say this for the following  reasons. The RGA  is a substantial 
product so Im sure it wouldve taken RBS some  time to explain it. And I can see how this 
could have felt like pressure to Mrs R. But Mr and Mrs R had previously had a fee free account 
so they knew  these were  available.  And while the overdraft facility RBS offered on the RGA 
was cheaper than overdrafts on their current accounts, the decision whether to offer an 
overdraft on any account wouldve  been  based on their credit rating and not on the product  
they were using. So I think its more likely than not that Mrs Rs memory is mistaken  on what 
RBS said about  the overdraft facility  which is understandable  after all these years. 
Ref: DRN18630022Mrs R says that she made the decision to take out the RGA in a rush, which  I can understand 
from what she says of her circumstances at the time. But she wouldve had the opportunity 
then to discuss it with Mr R and they could have  cancelled  the RGA  immediately or any time 
thereafter. 
So overall I dont  think I can say that Mr and Mrs R didnt know they had a choice or that they 
didnt choose  to take it out, as I would  have to in order to uphold their complaint  on this point.
Next I will consider what RBS was required to do when it sold the RGA to Mr and Mrs R.
 
Mr and Mrs R say that RBS recommended the RGA to them. RBS says that this was a non-
advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the RGA to Mr and Mrs R personally  
or advise  them to take it. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as a record of a 
discussion about Mr and Mrs Rs needs  and circumstances or a suitability check  to show me 
clearly that RBS did make a personal recommendation to them. I accept its possible that in 
providing information to Mr and Mrs R and explaining the benefits  of the RGA, RBS may have  
said or implied that it was a good idea for them  to take it out. But this isnt the same as a 
personal recommendation. And based on this services knowledge of RBSs sales  practices at 
the time,  I think its more  likely than not that RBS sold the RGA to Mr and Mrs R on an 
information only basis. 
This means  RBS did not have to ensure that the RGA  was suitable for Mr and Mrs R but it did 
have to provide  them  with good  enough  information  about the account so they could make an 
informed decision about whether to have it or not.
The RGA contained a range of benefits  including worldwide family travel insurance;  £10,000  
accidental death  cover; purchase protection; payment card protection;  extended warranty;  
access to airport lounges;  commission-free  travel money; up to 15% off interest  rates on 
personal loans;  £250  cashback  on mortgages;  increased interest  on savings; and various  
discounts. It also included  preferential terms on an approved overdraft  a fee-free zone up 
to £250, with preferential interest rates above that. 
I dont know what RBS said or what information it gave Mr and Mrs R about the RGA. But 
from what Mr and Mrs R say, RBS described  the RGA to Mrs R at some length as it was 
trying to sell the account to her. And I think the RGA  would have been of interest to Mr and 
Mrs R. I say this because  at the time Mr and Mrs R did travel regularly and they used  some  
of the benefits  over the years, although I acknowledge  not many.
I can see nothing in their circumstances that would have  stopped  them using the benefits.  
And, as this was an information only sale, it was for them to decide what  they would use, 
and circumstances  would have determined if they needed  to make a claim or not.
So, although  I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs R, in my view they knew they 
had a choice whether  to take out the RGA or not and they chose  to do so. I think the RGA 
was of interest to them and there  was no information that Mr and Mrs R didnt receive from 
RBS that would likely have put them off taking it out. So I dont think Mr and Mrs R lost out 
as a result  of anything  RBS may have done  wrong  when it sold them  the RGA.
Ref: DRN18630023my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1863002