K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that a caravan purchased with finance from Clydesdale  Financial  Services  
Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF)  wasnt of satisfactory quality. He also 
complains that the agreement was mis-sold.
background
In October  2017 Mr K was supplied with a static caravan and entered  into a conditional sale 
agreement with BPF. The finance was arranged by another  company (W)  who also run the 
site where the caravan is based.
Mr K says he was told prior to entering  into the agreement that the caravan  had been  fully 
inspected and that it was fit for purpose. However,  on his first visit a few days  after purchase, 
Mr K found  that the sink was cracked, the paving stones surrounding the caravan were  
cracked and the shower was faulty. He could also feel a draught coming in through the 
windows.
Mr K reported the issues to W who arranged  for the sink to be replaced  and told Mr K that 
the paving slabs and shower would be fixed.  W said it couldnt  find a fault with the windows.
Mr K used the caravan again in February 2018. When he turned on the water  he found  that 
there was a leak from the boiler pipe. He reported the fault to W, who provided Mr K with 
details of a plumber. 
Mr K arranged for the plumber to repair the boiler  pipe. He says the plumber also fixed  the 
shower as this hadnt been fixed by W. In April 2018 Mr K received the plumbers invoice. 
Because the repairs had been needed  so soon after he had purchased  the caravan, Mr K 
asked W to reimburse him. W refused and Mr K made a complaint.
W responded to the complaint and said the reasons for the boiler leaking was because the 
water hadnt  been  drained down during the winter  months which  had caused  the pipe to 
burst in the cold weather.  W said it was Mr Ks responsibility to make  sure the caravan was 
drained down.  
Mr K visited  the caravan  again in May 2018 and found that the bathroom radiator was 
leaking. He complained to BPF and asked to reject the caravan.
In its final response,  BPF said it had been advised  by W that the damage was as a result  of 
the caravan not being drained down properly. It said it would ask W to investigate the leaking 
radiator.
Mr K wasnt  happy with BPFs response  and complained to this service. He said he wanted  
to reject the caravan as it wasnt  fit for purpose. He said the windows were still draughty,  the 
radiator still leaked  and the paving slabs hadnt been repaired properly. He also said he 
believed the caravan had been mis-sold because he hadnt  been provided with accurate 
information about the running costs. In particular, Mr K said he hadnt been told at the time of 
entering into the agreement that he needed to have  the caravan professionally  drained down 
every time he used it during the winter. Mr K said if hed been  made  aware of this he 
wouldntve entered into the agreement because it was his stated intention to use the 
caravan regularly during the winter  and he wouldnt be able to afford the costs associated  
with doing so.
Ref: DRN17170832Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that because  the caravan was 
approximately 10 years old at the point of supply, it was reasonable to expect that some  
parts of the caravan would have been subjected  to wear and tear. She said that although the 
sink was cracked at the point of supply,  W had brought the caravan up to satisfactory quality 
by replacing it. In relation to the boiler pipe, the investigator was persuaded by the plumbers 
evidence and thought that the damage  had been caused because the water  hadnt been 
drained down  properly. The investigator said she wasnt  able to say that thered been a 
misrepresentation because there wasnt sufficient evidence to show that W had made a false  
statement about the running  costs  and specifically about the need  to drain down the water. 
The investigator concluded that the caravan was of satisfactory quality  at the point  of supply 
and that the agreement hadnt been  mis-sold.
Mr K didnt agree. He said it wasnt acceptable for a caravan to have so many  issues  within 
the first 6 months and that it had cost him over £1000 in repairs. He said he hadnt been 
made aware  of the need to have the caravan professionally drained  down. Mr K said he 
wanted his site fees waived for 2019 because he hadnt been  able to use the caravan as a 
result of all the issues. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Satisfactory quality
Because BPF supplied the caravan under a conditional sale agreement,  theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  A caravan is of satisfactory quality if it is of a standard 
that a reasonable person  would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors  such as 
price paid, fitness for purpose,  appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety 
and durability. 
I would expect a second hand  caravan, such  as that supplied  to Mr K, to have a degree of 
wear and tear commensurate with age.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months,  its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed  one attempt to 
repair the fault. If the repair  isnt successful, the consumer can reject the goods.
In this case, I can see that Mr K complained about four issues during the first 6 months. 
These were:
Cracked sink
Faulty shower
Cracked paving slabs
Draughty windows
As Ive said above,  I would expect to see a degree  of wear and tear in a 10 year old caravan. 
All of the issues above, whilst undoubtedly  frustrating for Mr K, are, in my view, wear  and 
tear issues.  The crack in the sink could  be called a fault, particularly if it prevented  the sink 
Ref: DRN17170833from being used.  In any event, I can see that W replaced the sink straightaway,  which is 
what I would  have  expected it to have  done.  I havent seen anything to suggest  that there 
are any ongoing  issues with the sink, so Im of the view that the repair  to the sink was 
successful I dont think the cracked  sink is a ground  for rejection because its been  
successfully repaired.
With regards to the shower,  the cracked paving  slabs and the draughty windows, I think 
these are wear and tear issues. Its inevitable that wear and tear issues will require attention  
with a caravan  of this age. I understand how disappointed Mr K was when he discovered 
these issues at the point of supply but Im unable to say that these are faults which render  
the caravan of unsatisfactory  quality or which BPF should be responsible for.
The next issue experienced by Mr K was a leaking  boiler  pipe. This also happened within the 
first 6 months.  Ive looked at the available information to decide whether this was a point of 
supply fault.
Mr K hasnt said that the boiler pipe was leaking when  he first visited the caravan. He 
discovered the leak in February 2018 when  he turned on the water.  Its fair to assume  that 
the issue developed when  Mr W wasnt at the caravan during the winter months.
The plumber who repaired the boiler  pipe for Mr K has stated that the damage was caused 
because the water hadnt been drained down. I appreciate that Mr K has said that he turned 
off the mains  water outside and opened  the taps inside the caravan. Ive also taken into 
account Mr Ks comments that he believes the plumber  isnt truly independent because hes 
contracted to do work on caravans at Ws site generally. 
Ive considered what the plumber has said. He stated that all of the issues he repaired were  
related to the cold weather and the water  not being  drained down. On balance,  I think its 
more likely than not that Mr K didnt drain  the water down on one of the occasions when he 
visited the caravan  in the winter months.  Ive no reason  to disbelieve  the plumbers 
professional opinion as to the cause of the damage. Im satisfied that the damage to the 
boiler was caused  by a lack of maintenance in not draining the water down, and not as a 
result of a point of supply  fault. It was Mr Ks responsibility to drain  the water down so I cant 
hold BPF responsible for the damage or the costs of repairing  the damage.
Mr K also experienced  issues with a leaking radiator in May 2018. He says this hasnt been  
addressed by W. W has said it wasnt made  aware of the issue until January 2019.  It has 
confirmed that the issue   which  was caused  by a loose valve  which  needed tightening  
was repaired during the caravan inspection in April 2019. It says it hasnt charged Mr K for 
this repair.
I can see that Mr K told BPR about  the leaking radiator in May 2018. Its clear that theres 
been a breakdown in communication, as BPR told Mr K it would ask W to investigate  the 
radiator. It appears that this didnt happen as quickly  as it should have done.  It shouldnt 
have taken so long for W to look at the leaking radiator. That said,  I cant  see that this issue  
has prevented Mr W or his family from using the caravan since  May 2018. Information 
provided by W shows that the utilities at the caravan have been used during the period May 
2018 to April 2019 and that gas and electricity bills have been  paid.
Taking everything into account,  Im unable to say that the caravan wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. Save  for the sink which was replaced, the issues experienced by Mr K are due to 
wear and tear and, in the case  of the boiler pipe, a failure to drain down the caravan.
Ref: DRN17170834Misrepresentation
In order to find that there has been a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that a 
false statement has been made which induced Mr K into entering  the contract.
Mr K has said that he wasnt told that the water needed to be professionally drained down 
every time he used the caravan  in winter. He says if hed been told this he wouldntve gone 
ahead with the purchase because the running costs wouldve been unaffordable for him.
Ive seen an email which  was sent to all caravan owners by W which emphasises the 
importance of draining down  the caravan in the winter months. The email  has a pdf 
attachment which gives advice to caravan  owners  on how to do this themselves. The email  
also says that there is a firm of plumbers who can do this task if owners prefer.
Mr K has said that this email was sent after he entered into the agreement. He also says that 
the advice in the email about  draining  down is different to the advice he was given at the 
time he entered into the agreement. He says the cost of having  the water  professionally  
drained down  wasnt mentioned at the point  of supply.
I cant be certain of whether Mr K was told about the option and costs of a professional drain  
down service at the time of entering the agreement. But I dont think this matters, because  
its clear from the information  provided  that the professional drain  down service  is optional. 
Theres no obligation for Mr K to engage the services of a plumber to drain down the 
caravan. This is supported by Mr Ks actions in draining down  the caravan himself.  And he 
acknowledged that he was given advice  by W on how to do this.
I havent seen  any evidence which suggest that the business made  a statement which  
wasnt true. Mr K says he wasnt  told about the costs of having  the caravan  professionally  
drained down  and says that if he had been he wouldnt have entered  into the contract. But 
as Ive said above, there was no obligation to use a plumber, so it wasnt a cost that Mr K 
would have had to factor in even if it had been discussed.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think theres  been  a misrepresentation.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr K hasnt been  able to enjoy  the experience of owning a caravan as 
much as hed hoped.  But for the reasons  Ive given, Im not persuaded that the caravan was 
of unsatisfactory  quality  or that the agreement was mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1717083