K821x#15complaint 
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 8 February  2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision set out the background to this complaint. It explained why I thought  
the complaint  should be upheld in full.
Mr and Mrs A responded to my provisional  decision  agreeing  with it and saying they had 
nothing further  to add.
Nationwide responded giving reasons why it didnt  accept  my provisional  decision.
Nationwide disagreed with my view that Mr As medical condition at the time of this PPI sale 
meant that Mr and Mrs A wouldnt have  wanted the accident and sickness cover  provided to 
him under the policy. I said I thought this would have been the case because  there  was an 
exclusion in the policy relating to pre-existing medical conditions. And if Mr and Mrs A had 
been made fully aware of this exclusion at the time, I didnt think they would have still 
thought it was worth paying for this cover. 
In summary,  Nationwide has provided  the following additional comments  and information in 
relation to what I said about  this in my provisional  decision:
Its provided a copy of a call note of a conversation with Mr A when it was investigating  
the complaint.  And it says this note appears  to suggest that Mr A doesnt  think his 
medical condition  would affect him, or consequently, his ability  to claim on the policy. So 
Nationwide doesnt consider that Mr As condition meant Mr and Mrs A wouldnt have 
wanted accident and sickness cover for him, even  if the policy exclusion had been fully 
explained to them.
It thinks the medical exclusion was adequately brought to the attention of Mr and Mrs A 
in a number of places in the policy leaflet it says they would  have been  given.  And it says 
it was likely that a member of its staff would also have discussed the policy with them  at 
that time.
Its provided a copy of a PPI application form which it says was normally completed at 
the same  time as the mortgage application.  And it points out that this form directs 
customers to read the PPI leaflet and discuss anything theyre not sure about with a 
member of staff.
It accepts  that the medical exclusion isnt mentioned on the Insurance  Schedule  that it 
says Mr and Mrs A would have received after the sale.  But it says it does instruct them  to 
read this in conjunction with a policy document, which  would have had full details  of this 
exclusion.
Nationwide also disagreed with what I said in my provisional decision about  it being unlikely 
that Mr and Mrs A would have realised  they could take out PPI without including accident  
Ref: DRN13454962and sickness cover for Mr A. And in summary, it provided the following additional comments  
and information  in relation  to what I said about  this in my provisional decision:
Its provided a sample mortgage  application  form. And it thinks its made  clear  in this 
form that joint borrowers can take different  levels of cover when it states If separate 
policies have been taken by joint borrowers  requiring different levels  of cover,  only 
details of the first applicant will be shown. It does however accept that this form would 
have been completed  after the decision to take PPI had already been made.
It accepts  that the policy leaflet  doesnt specifically say that Mr and Mrs A could choose 
to take full cover for Mrs A and only unemployment cover for Mr A. But as it doesnt 
specifically say they cant, it thinks  they should  have known this was possible.
It thinks the sample PPI application form its provided makes  it clear that Mr and Mrs A 
could have chosen different amounts and types of cover  for each of them.  It does this by 
providing separate columns for each customer, with options  for each covering full cover, 
accident and sickness only cover,  and unemployment only cover.
It thinks that, even if Mr and Mrs A hadnt  known they could each have different types of 
cover (which it doesnt accept),  it would have still been clear that Mrs A didnt  need  to be 
included in the cover. So the fact that she was included in the policys  cover  shows that 
her cover  was seen of value to them and, by implication, worth  paying for.
So, on the basis of the arguments  theyve made,  Nationwide doesnt think  my provisional  
decision that the PPI policy was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs A and that full compensation should 
be paid to them is fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Nationwides comments and the additional  information  its 
provided in response  to my provisional  decision.  But these dont change my view that this 
complaint should  be upheld  in full for reasons  that Ill now explain.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said about the information it gave Mr and Mrs A about  
the policys medical exclusion.  Its pointed to a number of places in the PPI policy leaflet  and 
elsewhere where reference to this exclusion is made. But notwithstanding  what  Nationwide  
has said, I still dont think that the written  information  provided  by Nationwide at the time of 
the sale about this important exclusion was sufficiently clear and prominent.  And although 
Nationwide says its also likely that a member of its staff would have  discussed  the policy 
with them  then, I dont  think Ive seen any strong evidence to show that, even if this 
happened, the medical exclusion would have been specifically highlighted in this discussion. 
Ive thought about what has been  noted as being  discussed in the call with Mr and Mrs A 
about their mis-sale complaint. But I dont  agree  with the conclusion  Nationwide  has drawn 
from this discussion.  It thinks that, even  if Mr and Mrs A had known about the medical 
exclusion in the policy, theyd still have wanted  accident and sickness  cover  for Mr A. This is 
because it thinks the call shows  the condition wasnt considered as a particularly serious one 
by them.  
Ref: DRN13454963The answers which Nationwide says Mr A gave to the questions  he was posed in the call 
seem to show that he had been  diagnosed  with a chronic condition  for which  hed received 
medication and which  had caused him some time off work before taking out the policy.  Mr A 
has also separately confirmed to us that he was taking on-going medication for his condition 
at the time of the sale and attending  six-monthly check-ups at a hospital. On this basis,  it 
seems to me that the nature of his condition made  it quite likely that it could worsen and 
might lead to longer  periods of sickness, or an inability to work at all, within  a relatively short 
period of time. 
So I dont  think the fact that Mr A hadnt actually  taken  time of work within the first year of the 
policy, or that he hadnt suffered other resultant medical conditions at that time, leads me to 
think the exclusion wouldnt  have  been  of importance to their decision. I still think they 
wouldnt have wanted to pay for accident  and sickness cover for Mr A when his most  likely 
reason for being off work  sick was probably  his existing medical condition.
So what  Nationwide has now said doesnt  change  my conclusion that, had Mr and Mrs A 
known about the pre-existing medical  exclusion, they wouldnt have wanted to pay for 
accident and sickness cover for Mr A. Ive also taken account of the fact that, following our 
adjudicators view, Nationwide, itself, offered to refund that portion of the premiums  
Mr and Mrs A paid for this part of their cover. So it seems that at this time it was willing to 
accept that this part of their cover wasnt really right for them.  But following my provisional 
decision to uphold the complaint in full, it now appears to be arguing that it was. 
Ive also thought carefully about what Nationwide has said about  the fact that it should have 
been clear to Mr and Mrs A at the time of the sale that they could opt for different  types  and 
levels of cover for each  of them separately. 
I accept that theres  mention of joint borrowers potentially taking out two separate policies in 
the sample mortgage application form it has provided. But this is a passing reference and 
Nationwide says this form would have been completed  including  the amount and type of 
PPI cover required  - after Mr and Mrs As decision to take PPI had already been made.
Ive considered the sample PPI application  form which Nationwide has now provided. And I 
can see that this form does show options for joint customers to select different types and 
levels of cover. But I dont  think I can be sure that this was the form which  was in use (and 
used) when  Mr and Mrs A were sold their PPI policy. Nationwide  says itself that this 
application form was normally completed at the same time as the mortgage application 
form, which suggests to me that it either doesnt think, or doesnt know,  that this was always  
the case. And even if this was what happened  in this case, according to Nationwide  this 
would still have been after Mr and Mrs A had already made the decision on the type and 
amount of PPI they wanted to purchase.
Nationwide has also said that because the policy leaflet didnt specifically rule out joint 
borrowers taking different  amounts and types  of PPI cover, Mr and Mrs A should have 
known that they could  do so. But I dont accept that this is the case. It seems to me that the 
way the leaflet is worded suggests  that the type of cover selected  would cover  the whole 
policy, even in cases where joint borrowers  shared  the benefits. It also seems to imply that, 
in the case of such joint borrowers,  the only option  is to share  the benefit on a 50:50 basis.  
It seems  likely that Mr A was by far the higher income earner in the household  and it was his 
salary which  really required  the greater level of protection.  But if Mr and Mrs A had studied 
this leaflet, I think they would have thought they could  only opt for a 50:50  split of benefit  if 
Ref: DRN13454964they wanted to take out joint cover. Its mentioned in the sample  mortgage  application  form 
that joint customers requiring different levels of cover would need to take out separate PPI 
policies. But I cant see any reference to this in the mortgage leaflet.
Ive thought about what Nationwide has said about  the fact that Mr and Mrs A took out joint 
cover implying that they valued the cover provided to Mrs A. But I dont think this means  that 
they would  necessarily have decided to go ahead and buy a PPI policy,  or policies, with 
different types  of cover for each of them, even if theyd known at the time they could do so.
On balance, and taking account of all the information and comments that Nationwide has 
now provided, I still dont  think I can fairly  conclude  that it would have been completely clear 
to Mr and Mrs A that they could have each chosen different types (and levels) of cover  if 
theyd known that Mr As medical condition might restrict the benefit they could  receive from 
taking full cover. And even if they had known this, I dont think it can be fairly assumed that 
this is what they would have chosen  to do, particularly if this might have required them to 
take out two separate  policies. 
Mr A appears to have  been in a relatively secure  job. And it would seem likely that it was his 
salary which  was most important for supporting the monthly mortgage payments. So I think 
its reasonable to think that, had no failings in the information provided  to them  occurred, 
Mr and Mrs A might  have decided not to take out any PPI cover. They  may well have 
decided to rely on their relatively generous sick pay entitlements and savings to support 
them if things went wrong.
So for these reasons, together with the ones already given in my attached provisional 
decision, I still think that Mr and Mrs A were  mis-sold their PPI policy by Nationwide  and that 
they should receive full compensation for the loss theyve suffered from this failing. 
Ref: DRN13454965putting things right
Nationwide Building  Society should  put Mr and Mrs A in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI at all. So Nationwide Building Society should:
Pay Mr and Mrs A the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs A made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building  Society must give Mr and Mrs A a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding this 
complaint and direct Nationwide  Building Society  to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN13454966copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Nationwide  Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage.
background
In 1997, Mr and Mrs A took out a joint mortgage with Nationwide. At the same time they bought a 
monthly premium  PPI policy. This covered  them both, on a 50/50 basis and for up to twelve months, 
if they were off work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator initially  thought that the policy had been mis-sold. This was because Mr A had a 
medical condition at the time of the sale that wouldnt have been covered by the policy. And she didnt 
think Mr and Mrs A would have still wanted to buy the policy if this exclusion had been fully explained 
to them. 
Following this initial assessment, Nationwide  offered to refund that part of the policys monthly  
premiums which gave  Mr A accident  and sickness cover.  The adjudicator thought  that this offer was 
fair. But Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators  view, so the case has been  passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs A. And from what  I know about this type 
of PPI sale by Nationwide at about this time, I think this is likely to have been the case. This means 
that Nationwide didnt need to ensure  that the policy was suitable for them. But it still needed to give 
Mr and Mrs A enough information so that they could decide if it was right for them.
Unfortunately, Nationwide  doesnt have a record of what was discussed at the meeting with 
Mr and Mrs A, or the paperwork which  was completed at the time. But this isnt that surprising given 
how long ago the sale took place. Businesses arent required to keep such records for so long a 
period of time. It has provided a sample copy of the Insurance Schedule that it says Mr and Mrs A 
would have received. But this doesnt mention the policys main exclusions. Ive previously seen 
copies of application forms and policy  leaflets which were being used by Nationwide at around this 
time. And I dont think they made these exclusions  clear enough either. I think this information could 
have easily been missed, particularly  given  all the other paperwork likely  to have been involved with 
setting up their mortgage, unless  it was specifically highlighted to them.  
So on the basis of the limited evidence available  to me, Im not satisfied that Nationwide did enough 
to make Mr and Mrs A aware  of the important exclusions in their policy. And I think the policy 
exclusion relating to pre-existing medical conditions would have been important to them. This is 
because Mr A suffered  from a chronic medical  condition at the time of this sale. This would  have 
made it unlikely that he would have been able to claim  under the policy if this condition  had caused 
him an extended  time off work.
Nationwide has already offered to refund  that part of the policys total monthly  premiums which gave 
Mr A accident  and sickness cover. But, as it considers that the rest of the cover provided by the policy 
was of benefit  to Mr and Mrs A, it doesnt think it needs to refund that proportion of the cost of the 
policy which related to this.
What I need to decide  is what Mr and Mrs A would have been likely to have done if theyd been fully 
informed about the medical exclusion in the policy. I dont think they would  have wanted to pay for full 
cover for both of them,  because Mr As medical condition limited the benefit  he could have received 
Ref: DRN13454967from the policy. I think its most likely that they would either have decided not to take the policy  at all, 
or to have wanted  to still take out the policy but not pay for accident and sickness cover for Mr A. 
But from what  Ive seen, I dont think that Mr and Mrs A would have thought  that such partial cover 
was available to them. The policy leaflet Ive seen  shows that they could have opted  for joint cover for 
unemployment only,  but it doesnt  show  that it was possible  for Mrs A to be covered for accident, 
sickness and unemployment, and Mr A for unemployment only.  This might have been possible  by 
Mr and Mrs A taking out two separate policies, but this option isnt mentioned in the leaflet. And I dont 
think its likely that they would have known  this at the time.
Ive also noted that, from what I know of Mr and Mrs A circumstances at the time of this sale,  it seems 
likely that Mr A was the main  income  earner. And he appears to have been in a relatively secure job. 
So I think that Mr and Mrs A would have thought that the most likely reason for them not being able to 
pay their mortgage would be if Mr A couldnt work  because  of an accident or sickness.  And in these  
circumstances, I dont  think Mr and Mrs A would have thought it worth  paying for a PPI policy which 
didnt protect  them against  this risk.
So, on balance,  I think its most  likely that, if Mr and Mrs A had been fully informed about  the medical 
exclusion in the policy, they would  have  decided  that it wasnt right for them  and decided not to buy it.
It follows from what Ive said that I think  Mr and Mrs A have lost out because Nationwide didnt  give 
them enough information  about the policy  they were  buying and theyve paid for a policy that they 
would otherwise have declined.
putting things  right
Nationwide Building Society should put Mr and Mrs A in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI at all. So Nationwide  Building Society should:
Pay Mr and Mrs A the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs A made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what  they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this interest.  
Nationwide Building Society must give Mr and Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off 
if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  Im currently intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint  and direct 
Nationwide Building Society to put things right as set out above.
I now invite  both parties to give me any further comments or information that theyd like me to 
consider by 8 March 2019, after which  Ill make my final decision. 
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1345496