K820x#14complaint
Mr S has a motor insurance  policy with Tesco Underwriting Limited. He complains that it 
wrongly decided  he was at fault for a collision  with another drivers vehicle.
background
The other drivers insurer told Tesco he found his van damaged  at 5.30am on 
14 August 2017.  It had been parked and unattended overnight. He said Mr Ss car was 
parked close by. He noted that there was damage  to it, plus a transfer of orange paint that 
he thought was from the scuffed signage on his van. Mr S said he was unaware  of any 
incident until the police - then Tesco - told him about  it. 
An independent engineer  inspected  Mr Ss car. He found a lot of damage to it. But In 
particular, he noted damage to the front bumper cover and the front wing on the passenger  
side. He said there  were orange  paint deposits on both areas of damage. Tescos engineer 
later said the damage to Mr Ss car and that to the van was consistent with the vehicles 
having collided. He based his view partly on the photos supplied  by the other insurers  
engineer. But he was unable to say which vehicle had caused  the damage.  
The letter Mr S got from the police said the incident took place  on 11 August  2017 at 6pm. 
Mr S can show he was at work  at that time. The police took no action. The other  drivers  
insurer later confirmed that it had given Tesco the correct incident date  14 August 2017. It 
said the other driver  told it he reported  the incident  to the police the day after that.
Tesco told Mr S it had to accept fault for the accident. It said if it tried to defend the claim,  it 
was likely a court would  find in the other drivers  favour. Its decision meant  Mr S (a new 
driver) lost out on his first years no claims discount (NCD).  And he was concerned  about  
facing higher premiums  due to the fault claim on his record.
Our adjudicator thought Tesco had carried out a reasonable  investigation. She thought it 
came to a fair conclusion,  based on the available details. She noted that no independent  
evidence  such as CCTV footage   was available. Mr S said without such  evidence  there  
was nothing to show that he was at fault.  The complaint was then passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
The police didnt  contact  Mr S until 18 August 2017.  The other drivers insurer recorded  the 
date of incident as four days prior to that. The other  driver told it he reported it to the police 
one day later. So on balance I think the date on the police record is probably wrong. 
Mr S says he was sleeping at 5.30am on 14 August 2017. But the other  driver didnt say the 
damage was done then.  He says it was already there when he saw the van at that time  
and it had been parked and unattended. The other  driver noted the damage to Mr Ss car, 
which he says was parked nearby. He took photos  of it. They  show that some  of the damage 
had paint transfer on it that matched  the colour  of the paintwork scraped  off his van. 
Tesco didnt  just accept  the other drivers  account.  It instructed an independent engineer  to 
review the damage. He confirmed that there was paint transfer on the left-hand  front bumper 
Ref: DRN10387812and wing of Mr Ss car. Mr S was unable to say how it got there. Tesco asked  another  
engineer to say whether the damage  to Mr Ss car and to the van was consistent with the 
vehicles being  involved in a collision. The engineer said it was consistent.
I think Tesco had grounds to conclude that the two vehicles had collided. But the engineer 
couldnt say which one caused  the impact. There was no independent evidence of the 
accident. Mr S was adamant his car hadnt  damaged the van. At one stage he said the van 
may have  collided with his car. But Tesco had to consider  the photos the other driver took. 
One of them  shows  the damaged part of Mr Ss car with orange paint on it was parked 
alongside the pavement. Tesco said the van couldnt have  collided  with it in that position.    
Under the policy, Tesco has the right to settle any claim as it sees fit. We would  only 
interfere if we thought it had acted  unreasonably. Given  the information Tesco had, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for it not to just accept Mr Ss insistence that his car hadnt  caused 
the damage. Mr S produced statements from others  that say hes an honest  person. Tesco  
hasnt said thats  not the case.  But it had to base its decision on the facts  it had. Statements 
about Mr Ss character are opinions,  rather than independent facts about the incident.
Tesco had to consider whether it would be able to defend any legal proceedings brought  by 
the other driver. It thought the available evidence wouldnt allow it to defend the claim 
successfully. I think  that was a reasonable decision in the circumstances here.
In the absence of evidence  about  how the collision  happened, I think  it may have been open 
to Tesco  to try to argue that liability  should be split between Mr S and the other  driver.  But I 
think its unlikely the other  insurer would have  agreed to that. And even if it had, Mr S would 
still have had a fault claim  on his record.  He wouldnt  have got his NCD for the year and hed 
still have faced the prospect of higher premiums. So hed have been no better off. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think it was unreasonable for Tesco to conclude that it 
had no option  but to accept liability for the incident.  So I cant uphold  Mr Ss complaint.       
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 25 March  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1038781