K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about Aviva  Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim against his motor  
insurance policy.
Reference to Aviva  includes its agents.
background
Mr M was in an accident. He didn't claim on his own policy  but the other  driver  (the third 
party) claimed against Mr Ms policy saying  that hed suffered a personal  injury. Mr M wasn't 
happy with Avivas handling of the claim. He said, amongst other things, that it didn't take 
action to prevent  a fraudulent claim, didn't send someone out to photograph his car and 
didnt keep him up to date with progress. Aviva looked into Mr Ms complaint. It agreed that it 
could have handled it better  and offered him £100  by way of compensation for its errors. 
Mr M wasn't  happy with Aviva's response and brought his complaint  to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. She thought that Aviva had responded to it fairly. 
Mr M didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Ms made a number of points. I've considered everything he 
said but in this decision I will focus  on what I see as being the key issues following our 
investigators assessment  of it. 
Mr M's said that, owing to relatively minor damage to his own car, he didn't intend  to claim 
on his policy  as any repairs were  most  likely below his excess. But he provided Aviva with 
the details of the accident setting out why he didn't think he was at fault for it and why he 
didn't think  the third party would have been  injured. He considered  the third partys  claim to 
be fraudulent.
Aviva told Mr M it would send someone  out to take pictures of his car. But that didn't happen. 
Aviva says its photographer wasn't  able to contact Mr M. But Mr M said he had no missed 
calls from the photographer. I can't see that Mr M would have anything to gain by saying he 
didn't have missed  calls if he did. So, its not clear  why the photographer  couldn't contact 
him. But it's not in doubt that Aviva didn't take the pictures itself. Instead, a couple of weeks  
later, Aviva asked Mr M to take some  images  himself, which  he did. Aviva  then told Mr M 
that his images  were  good enough for its purposes.
Mr Ms said he decided to take his car off the road,  in part, to preserve the evidence.  And 
that as a result, he couldn't use his car. But I havent seen evidence that Aviva told Mr M he 
couldn't use his car. And I note Mr Ms policy with Aviva lapsed on the day he said he 
decided to take it off the road.  And his decision not to use it was his alone. It follows that I 
don't think  it was Aviva's fault if Mr M didn't have the use of his car and for any expenses he 
incurred as a result.
Ref: DRN11765072Similarly, Mr M said that because the claim had been recorded on a shared insurance 
database, he couldn't afford to reinsure  his car and as a result had suffered much 
inconvenience as well as extra costs.  But I don't think that was Avivas  fault.
When insurers are informed  of a driving  incident they are under an obligation  to record  that 
incident on a shared  insurance database. And insurers will record whether or not the driver 
concerned is at fault for the accident or not. And where a drivers made  a claim, until the 
insurers have settled  that claim - known  as being  an open claim - then insures will record 
the driver  as being at fault.  And it will remain like that until the claim is settled and closed. 
In this case it's not in dispute that an accident  happened or that the third party  made a claim. 
So, while that claim was open it would show on the shared database as a fault claim against  
Mr M (it would also show as a fault claim against the third party). And Mr M would have to 
declare the incident and that the claim was open when looking for insurance quotes.  And 
every insurer  Im aware of will see drivers with recent fault claims (or open claims) on their 
driving history as being higher risk than drivers without  such claims. And insurers reflect that 
assessment of increased risk in the premiums they charge.
In this case the third party had made  a claim against Mr Ms policy. Aviva defended that 
claim, referring the matter to its solicitors  in order to do so. And as the claim was open, 
Mr Ms premiums  increased. But thats  not because Aviva did anything  wrong.  It might  help if 
I explain that where such claims are disputed  it's not unusual for it to take many  months  if 
not years  for the matter  to be settled. And in this case, Ive seen that Mr Ms policy  was due 
for renewal only weeks after Aviva first learned of the claim. So, I don't think it had any real 
prospect of closing the claim before Mr Ms policy was due to renew.  That means Aviva 
couldn't prevent Mr Ms quotes to renew  his premium from increasing. So, if Mr M could no 
longer afford to insure  his car after his existing  policy lapsed that wasn't  because  of anything  
Aviva did or didn't  do. It follows  that I don't think Aviva is responsible for any inconvenience  
or costs that Mr M incurred because he could no longer use his car.
Mr Ms suggested that Aviva should  compensate him for increased insurance costs. But I 
don't think  it would be fair to instruct Aviva to do that. Its clear Mr M doesn't  think the third 
partys claim  is genuine. And hes referred on several occasions  to it possibly being 
fraudulent. But the fact that one party to a claim disputes the others version of events 
doesn't mean that either  side is being  fraudulent. And given that the third party had made a 
personal injury claim against Mr Ms policy  Aviva  has a responsibility to deal with that claim. 
And in this case, its done so by passing  it to solicitors to defend  it. And I think thats a 
reasonable course of action.
It seems  Mr M believes Aviva should  have been  more proactive in taking action to close the 
claim. But it might help if I explain that as Mr M wasnt making a claim himself Aviva  had no 
basis on which to begin court proceedings against the other  side.  Thats  because  in order  for 
Aviva to begin proceedings against the third party or his insurers Aviva would first need to 
have an outlay - that is what  it had paid to settle the claim - to recover. But Mr M hadnt 
claimed on his own policy, so Aviva hadnt  incurred any outlay to recover. So, it couldn't start 
the court process itself.  Instead it told the third partys  solicitors  that it would  defend the claim 
and gave the third-party solicitors the details  of Avivas own lawyers  to do so on Mr Ms 
behalf. And I think that was the appropriate action to take. So, I dont  think  Aviva needs  to 
compensate Mr M if hes incurred extra costs because the claim remained  open.
That said,  it's clear that not everything  has gone smoothly. As I've said above Aviva  didn't 
manage to contact Mr M to take photos of his car and its acknowledged that its 
Ref: DRN11765073communication could  have been  better. It offered Mr M £100 compensation for the impact of 
that. I understand that compensation for distress and inconvenience because  of issues with 
Aviva's communications wasn't what Mr M was hoping  to achieve when he brought his 
complaint to us. But I think Avivas  offer is reasonable  in the circumstances. And for the 
reasons given above I don't think it needs to take any further  action in response to the issues  
weve looked at. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1176507