K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Hyundai  Capital  UK Limited trading as Kia Finance misrepresented a 
conditional sale agreement through which he acquired a new motor  vehicle. He wants 
compensation.
background
Mr C tells us that when taking out the agreement he made it clear to the sales  person that he 
would be making  lump sum payments from the balance from time to time.  And he says he 
was told hed be able to do so and thereby reduce the interest charges. He said this was the 
single most  important factor in his deciding  to choose this agreement.  But he said that in 
April 2018 when he sent £5,000 to Kia it only used part of that sum. Mr C said the balance of 
just over £2,079  had been returned to his bank account. He feels  Kia have reneged  on the 
agreement. He particularly refers to information he was given as part of the pre-contract 
credit information which  states:
you have the right to discharge your indebtedness  under the agreement  at any time in full or 
in part.
Mr C feels that in returning part of the sum hed paid Kia has broken the agreement.
Kia told us that Mr C had taken out a conditional sale agreement in late 2017. It said the 
agreement contained  a balloon payment which is based on the guaranteed minimum future 
value of the vehicle (GFV).  It said the GFV cannot be partially  settled during the lifetime of 
the agreement  or amended. As it had been only able to partially settle  Mr Cs agreement  to 
the extent that it reduced the monthly payments to £0.01 - it refunded the balance of the 
£5,000 he had paid. It said Mr C was still able to settle the balloon  payment early but it would 
have to be done as one lump sum payment for the whole amount.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think  the 
agreement had been mis-sold. Whilst he thought  the issue of overpayments  couldve been 
explained better he didnt think it had resulted in any detrimental  effect.  He said Mr C had 
been able to save interest and settle  the finance  early.
Mr C didnt agree with this outcome and said he wanted the matter  to be elevated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr C has experienced dissatisfaction with the way the finance agreement was sold 
to him. And I think things  couldve been explained  more clearly both by the sales person and 
in the agreement itself. But I dont think theres  been a misrepresentation of the agreement. 
Ill explain  why Ive reached this conclusion. I should also explain that I dont apply the law - 
directly - but I do take it into account.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to enter an 
agreement and suffer loss as a result of the misrepresentation.  In this case the alleged  false 
statement relates to Mr C being able to make  early repayment and settle any indebtedness  
at a time of his choosing before the scheduled  end of the agreement.
Ref: DRN14992362The agreement is a conditional sale agreement which is very similar to a hire purchase 
agreement. Typically, monthly  instalments  are made  throughout the term of the agreement 
and there  is often a lump  sum or balloon payment at the end of the agreement. This allows  a 
consumer the option to buy the vehicle outright by paying this amount.  In effect the 
agreement can be viewed  as two containing separate elements. That is the regular monthly  
instalments - which include interest payments - and the balloon payment.
In this case the agreement also contains a GFV - which effectively guarantees the value of 
the vehicle at the end of the normal  term of the agreement. This allows the consumer to pay 
the balloon payment and keep the goods. Or they can hand the goods back  instead of 
paying it. Because the future value is guaranteed, they wont  be charged more  even if the 
goods value has dropped  below  what was predicted.  If it turns out the goods are now worth 
more than the guaranteed  minimum future value, the additional  equity can be put towards a 
new agreement.  Because  this figure is guaranteed at the start of the agreement  it means  it 
cant be altered.
Where a consumer wishes to make an overpayment in full or partial  settlement of a finance 
agreement the business is obliged to accept this. And its required to calculate any rebate
(the amount  of interest which  the customer will not have to pay) by reference to The 
Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations  2004.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement state:
2.7 You may repay all amounts payable by you under this agreement  early,
either in part or in full, by giving notice  in person or in writing.
and by repaying the appropriate amount, which may include a rebate.
2.8 If you repay the amount of the credit early, in part, under clause 2.7 above
we may reduce  the repayments  in order to preserve the duration of this
agreement and will notify you of the new repayments in writing.
It seems  Kia has made  the relevant calculation and this is why Mr C received a refund to his 
bank account  after he had made  the £5,000 payment. Once the rebate had been calculated 
the sum left owing - apart from the fixed balloon payment  - was less than this. The monthly  
payments were reduced to a nominal  £0.01  which left only the balloon payment to be settled.
Its open to Mr C to settle this sum in full at any time he wishes  before the scheduled  end of 
the agreement. And hes recently  sent us a copy of a letter hes written to Kia in which he 
indicates he will do so in December 2019.
I think the process of settling the balloon payment mightve been explained more  clearly. 
And it wouldve been helpful  if itd been made explicit that the balloon payment was only 
payable by a single  lump sum and was not amenable to alteration. But Im not able to direct  
a business as to how it sets out the terms and conditions of an agreement.
In summary,  I dont think theres  been a misrepresentation or mis- selling of the agreement. 
Mr C was told at the start that hed be able to make early repayments to settle the 
agreement early. And thats what hes been  able to do. And hes achieved his wish to save 
on interest charges.  So thereve been no false statements of fact with respect to these 
aspects.
Ref: DRN14992363Im aware my decision  may come as a disappointment to Mr C, but Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1499236