K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  about various  issues that arose concerning her account with 
Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard) when she moved abroad.
background
Miss G had an account with Barclaycard, and also an account with Barclays. This complaint 
is only about Barclaycard.  She says that after she moved abroad,  Barclaycard continued to 
write to her at her old address, jeopardising her privacy and the security  of her account. 
Barclaycard failed to tell her that it would  only keep her account  open if she maintained an 
address in the UK. She complains that Barclaycard  made it difficult  to make  an international 
debit card payment,  and that as a result a payment was made  late and she incurred a late 
payment fee. She also says that Barclaycard cut her off during a phone call, and failed to 
send her statements  when she asked for them.
Barclaycard says that it is a separate business  to Barclays, and that Miss G had only told 
Barclays that she was moving. It says she should also have told Barclaycard, and that its 
terms and conditions make this clear. The terms and conditions also mention the need to 
keep an address in the UK. It had only sent one letter  to her old address, which  was about a 
late payment. (Some marketing information might continue to be sent to the old address for 
eight weeks, but then this would stop.) However,  Barclaycard has accepted that it did make 
some mistakes.  It had accidentally cut off a phone call, and had given conflicting information 
about how to make an international payment. It refunded the late payment fee and removed  
it from her credit  file, and paid her £150  compensation.  It sent her account  statements to our 
Service, and these  have  been forwarded  to Miss G.
Our adjudicator thought that £150  was not quite enough, and suggested that £200 would be 
fair. Barclaycard did not agree. Miss G asked for £5,000. So this complaint has been passed 
to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read Barclaycards terms and conditions.  They do indeed say that customers must 
keep their address  up to date, that contact  details must be based in the UK, and that 
Barclaycard may close an account  (with  notice)  if the customer  lives overseas.
However, nowhere do the terms and conditions say that Barclaycard and Barclays  must be 
informed separately  about  a change of address, or explain that they are different 
businesses. On the contrary, they tend to create  the opposite impression. For example, on 
page 1 they say Barclaycard is a trading name  of Barclays Bank  Plc. Further down that 
page, it says We set your credit limit according  to  information from other parts  of the 
Barclays group  On page 3 it says that Barclaycard will take into account information from 
within the Barclays Group when  setting interest rates.  On page 7 Barclaycard explains that 
if a payment is missed,  then We may take the payment from any other  Barclays accounts 
you have. So I dont  think that was enough to put Miss G on notice that as well as telling 
Barclays about her move  she also had to tell Barclaycard too. It was reasonable of her to 
think that telling Barclays meant that Barclaycard was also informed.
Ref: DRN10156592Nevertheless, that only resulted in one letter being  sent to Miss Gs old address, and there is 
no evidence that any serious consequences ensued. I take Miss Gs point that it could have 
been worse, but it wasnt.
Taking into account the fact that the late payment fee was refunded,  and that the premature 
termination of the phone call was accidental  (which I accept), I think Barclaycards apology  
and payment of £150 were fair compensation. I do not require it to do more than that.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1015659